DRN-4227692
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice Perspective (North East) Limited (PNEL) gave to him 
concerning transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused him a financial loss.
The firm that gave Mr G advice was operating under a different name to PNEL. But as PNEL 
has confirmed it is responsible for responding to the complaint I will only refer to it in this 
decision.
Professional representatives have helped Mr G to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Gs.
What happened
Mr G was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In March 2010, the 
employer wrote to him and said that  in order to ease funding pressure  it was offering 
deferred members of the DB scheme either an enhanced transfer value; or a reduced 
transfer value and a one off cash payment. It included a pack of documents. Amongst other 
things it said Mr Gs pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £16,657 
although this had been reduced by £7,068, as the scheme had insufficient assets to cover its 
liabilities to members. But, if he took the employers offer he could either:
transfer an enhanced sum of £23,726 into an alternative arrangement; or 
take a cash sum of £7,068, which would be subject to tax and national insurance 
deductions and transfer £16,657 to a different provider. 
The employer said it had arranged for PNEL to run presentations and give advice. Mr G 
then contacted PNEL. Four days later he completed PNELs fact-find questionnaire. 
Amongst other things he said he was 42 years old, divorced with no dependents. He was 
self-employed earning around £33,000 a year. He had two other personal pensions, but he 
didn't give any figures for what those were worth. He said he wasnt paying into one of them 
but didnt comment on whether or not he was making contributions to the other. He owned 
his own home which was worth around £167,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £67,000. 
He said he wanted cash and was unconcerned about his pension. He added that he had a 
cautious attitude to risk. 
In May 2010 PNEL obtained a pension transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Soon after, on 
10 May 2010 it sent Mr G its suitability report setting out its analysis and recommendations. 
It recommended that Mr G should not transfer out of his DB scheme. In brief it said the 
growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the benefits from the DB scheme were 
9.2% if Mr G transferred the enhanced amount of £23,726 to a personal pension; that would 
rise to 11% if Mr G took the enhancement as cash and transferred the lower sum of £16,657. 
PNEL said those rates were unlikely to be met by investing in a personal pension. It said 
Mr Gs benefits in retirement could be significantly reduced by transferring. It also said death 
benefits would be lower and he would effectively be transferring the risk from his former 
employer to himself. 
Nine days later Mr G sent PNEL an email that said:
I confirm receipt of the pension report from your company. I also confirm your advice to stay 
in the pension fund, but I still wish to take the lump sum offer plus transfer the pension into 
another.
PNEL wrote to Mr G again on 24 May 2010. It repeated the warnings from its suitability 
report about why it thought a transfer wasnt suitable for him. It noted that he wanted to go 
against its advice and take the £7,068 cash sum (subject to deductions). It said that in doing 
so Mr G understood that: he would be giving up guaranteed benefits, he would have a lower 
income in retirement; death benefits would also be lower, and that he would be accepting the 
investment risk himself. It then proposed a named personal pension plan for Mr G to transfer 
the CETV into. The transfer then went ahead.
In 2022 Mr G complained to PNEL that its transfer advice wasnt suitable for him. Amongst 
other things he said:
PNEL had treated him as an insistent client1 without explaining what that was.
It hadn't informed him of the guarantees he would be losing by transferring.
It had told him that a personal pension would provide better growth than his DB 
scheme
At the time he had savings and didnt need the cash sum.
His wife had lost valuable death benefits because of the transfer.
PNEL replied. It didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In brief it said that it had twice given clear 
warnings that a transfer wasnt in his best interests, including saying that he would have 
lower income in retirement. It had also told him death benefits would be lower. Mr G had 
chosen to go against its advice
Mr G brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
PNEL had treated Mr G fairly, so recommended it pay him compensation.
PNEL didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. The investigator 
wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
1 Where a client chooses to go against a financial advisers recommendation, they are often referred
to as an insistent client.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PNELs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
At the time of the events Mr G complains about there was no regulatory advice or guidance 
in place in respect of insistent clients. But the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R) and 
PRIN 7 are particularly important when considering treating a client as insistent. So, PNELs 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr G had to have understood the consequences of 
going against the recommendation.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Financial viability
In its suitability report PNEL set out that the critical yields were too high to be achieved by 
reinvesting the DB funds in a personal pension. It said for that reason it didn't recommend 
that Mr G should transfer out of his DB scheme. I agree with PNELs analysis. That is, it was 
more likely than not that Mr G would be worse off in retirement by transferring. And as this 
isn't disputed by either party to the complaint, I see no reason to further analyse the financial  
viability of the transfer when it clearly wasnt viable.
Did PNEL fairly treat Mr G as an insistent client?
PNELs said that, on more than one occasion, it gave Mr G clear advice not to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. But, because he chose to go against that advice, it treated him as an 
insistent client.
Theres no doubt PNELs suitability report said its advice was that Mr G should not transfer 
out of his DB scheme. But I think there were flaws in PNELs process which mean it wouldnt 
have been fair for Mr G to rely on its recommendation not to transfer.
Its notable that PNELs initial suitability report didnt include specific details of an alternative 
personal pension for comparison purposes. I find this undermines the advice process. That's 
because the information PNEL provided in its suitability report was limited and essentially 
relied on saying that the critical yield was too high to be met. And while PNEL said what the 
relevant critical yields were, it didnt show what growth rate Mr G could expect from a 
personal pension or what that would mean to him in monetary terms in retirement. I think it 
would therefore have been very difficult for Mr G to make a direct comparison between what 
he would be giving up by transferring and what he was likely to receive if he did. So, I think 
Mr G had insufficient information to go off in order to decide if going against PNELs advice 
was truly in his best interests. And I dont see how PNEL could expect Mr G to make an informed decision about going against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all the 
information he needed, in one place, in order to make that decision.
A clearer process would have been for PNEL to provide its advice and recommendations as 
a whole, taking into account Mr Gs objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the 
choice of alternative pension and Mr Gs desire to take the enhancement payment as a lump 
sum immediately. Only then should PNEL have clearly set out in one document why 
transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Mr Gs best interests.
PNELs recommendation was that it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer. But it made it 
easy for him to do so anyway. I say this because Mr G simply sent it an email saying that he 
wished to go ahead with the transfer but he didnt give any reasons for why he wanted to go 
against PNEL advice. However, PNEL did nothing to challenge why he would want to do 
that. It didnt ask him what his reasons for going ahead with the transfer were. So it didnt 
find out why he wanted the cash lump sum at that time, what he intended to do with it or to 
see if there were other ways of raising the money that didnt involve compromising his 
security in retirement. This is something Id have expected to see as part of a robust advice 
process.
Further, Mr G had said in the fact-find questionnaire that he intended to take the 
enhancement as cash immediately. So, hed made it clear from an early stage he was 
already leaning towards transferring in order to have access to some instant cash. But, 
again, I've seen no evidence PNEL probed why Mr G wanted to do that. It didnt ask him 
what he wanted to achieve by taking the enhancement as cash. And, as I've said above, I 
can't see that it explored whether he could raise the cash by some other means.
Also, PNEL didnt gather any information about what Mr Gs regular outgoings were. But, 
from the information on file it didnt appear that he had any unmanaged debts. So, while I 
don't doubt that the opportunity to receive some ready cash was a mouth-watering prospect, 
there's no evidence he had any actual need for it. But, while PNEL did warn him hed likely 
be worse off in retirement by transferring, I can't see that it made a concerted attempt to 
explain to Mr G that giving up guaranteed pension benefits for a cash lump sum that wasnt 
obviously needed was not in his best interests.
Similarly, PNEL didnt gather any information about what Mr Gs likely income needs would 
be once he retired. So, it didnt find out how Mr G intended to fund his retirement after hed 
given up the guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme. And while it said the critical yield was 
unlikely to be met it didnt make it clear to him in its suitability report  in terms of actual 
figures  how much worse off he could potentially be.
Further, given PNEL was well aware there was very little prospect of a personal pension 
matching the DB scheme benefits in monetary terms, it needed to spell out to Mr G that, 
before transferring, his other reasons for doing so needed to be compelling. But PNEL didnt 
explore this with Mr G in any detail. In its suitability report PNEL has recorded that Mr Gs 
objective was to obtain sufficient information to be able to make an informed decision on 
[his] transfer options. But PNEL should have known that that is not a financial objective in 
terms of retirement planning. That is simply an extremely short term wish. So I think PNEL 
should have gone back to Mr G and found out what his plans were for his retirement and 
how he intended to fund those. But it didnt do so. And I dont see how PNEL could give 
Mr G suitable advice in respect of his objectives without knowing the basic facts about what 
he wanted the cash for. Neither have I seen evidence that PNEL effectively advised Mr G about the long-term nature of pension planning  such as the need for a pot of funds to 
provide an income for many years ahead.
PNELs role was to discern what Mr Gs wants and needs were and why he wanted to 
transfer his pension. It wasnt simply to do what he wanted without appropriate analysis and 
challenge of his motives for doing so whilst discussing the implications of those actions with 
him. While it did give him risk warnings, I've seen little evidence of such a challenge even 
though that would have been in Mr Gs best interests. Indeed, as I've said above, I've seen 
no evidence PNEL explored with him exactly what he wished to do with the enhanced 
payment and why. So, I dont think PNEL met its obligations to challenge Mr Gs objectives 
in light of what he would be giving up. That also meant it didnt appropriately consider 
whether Mr Gs aims could be met through other means without giving up the benefits from 
his DB scheme.
PNEL did give Mr G advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and did warn him that he 
could be worse off in retirement by doing so. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its 
recommendation for Mr G not to transfer. Thats because he apparently made his initial 
decision to go against its advice without having all the facts available to him.
Also, after he said he wanted to go ahead PNEL then made a recommendation to transfer to 
a personal pension. But I can't see that it gave him a side-by-side comparison of what he 
was likely to receive in retirement from his DB scheme against what hed likely receive from 
the personal pension. That would have been particularly helpful as PNELs TVAS showed 
that Mr Gs DB scheme would pay him a yearly pension of £4,484  after taking tax free 
cash of £16,442  but that yearly income was estimated to fall to £1,686 by transferring to a 
personal pension (after taking tax free cash of £15,386). That is a reduction of around 62%. 
But I cant see that PNEL made this clear to Mr G in its suitability report.
Similarly, while Mr Gs former employer said it was offering to pay him a cash enhancement, 
in reality the amount it was offering  £7,080  was an identical sum to the amount the DB 
scheme trustees had reduced his CETV by because the scheme was currently underfunded. 
So, the enhanced sum was only returning Mr G to the position he would have been in if the 
employer sorted out the underfunding issue. But I dont think PNEL did enough to bring this 
to Mr Gs attention. 
PNEL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr G about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Gs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing a guaranteed income for 
retirement. But Mr Gs chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance 
of getting hold of a lump sum of cash, for which he had no obvious need, rather than 
long-term retirement planning. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to 
someone when they express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as 
applying the rigorous process of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client 
really is. So, given the flaws described above in PNELs advice process, I dont think it fully 
and accurately informed Mr G about his position.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process PNEL followed meant it was fair to truly regard Mr G as an insistent client. So, I 
don't think PNEL acted in his best interests. Neither do I think it treated him fairly.
Ive thought about whether Mr G would have transferred out of the DB scheme had he been 
given all the information essential to him making an informed decision. But Im not 
persuaded he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against PNELs 
advice if it had brought all of the important points to his attention. I say this because Mr G was an inexperienced investor and described his attitude to risk as cautious. But he was 
taking a significant risk of losing the guarantees from his DB scheme by transferring out of it. 
So, I think if PNELs advice had been suitably robust Mr G would have remained in the DB 
scheme.
For completeness Ill add that PNELs referred us to another complaint where an 
ombudsman colleague did not uphold a complaint. PNEL said the circumstances are similar.  
So its effectively argued that case should set a precedent for my decision when considering 
this complaint. But this Service considers complaints on an individual basis. That means I 
must look at each individual case before me on its own facts and merits. And I am not 
bound by any previous decisions issued by our ombudsmen, as those decisions dont set a 
precedent. And, in any event, having looked at the other decision PNEL referred to, its clear 
that the individual facts and circumstances are quite different, so it hasn't persuaded me  
that this complaint should not be upheld.
In light of the above, I think PNEL should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PNEL to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have most 
likely remained in the DB scheme if PNEL had given suitable advice.
PNEL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65 as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of 
Mr Gs acceptance of my view.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PNEL should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts PNELs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, PNEL may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Perspective (North 
East) Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Perspective (North East) Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Perspective (North 
East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman