DRN-4064074
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr S wished to purchase some airline tickets. He received a quote from his local travel agent 
(that hed used in the past), but on this occasion he decided to search online instead. 
Mr S believed he was on the website for, or linked to, a legitimate airline, but he was actually 
on a website operated by fraudsters. He spoke to an agent, who claimed to represent a 
national airline, over the phone on a number of occasions. The fraudsters said that hed 
need to pay a deposit of £100 to secure the tickets and then, after suggesting that Mr S 
needed to act quickly due to price fluctuations, a further £1,685 to complete the purchase. 
They sent him some emails containing the flight details, but not any actual tickets. 
Mr S said that the price was about £300-£400 cheaper than the travel agent had offered, but 
he put this down to the lower costs of operating a business online. Mr S says that he rarely 
uses anything other than cash to make payments and, in the past, had only purchased 
tickets through his travel agent.
After Mr S made the payments, the fraudster broke off contact. He reported the matter to 
Monzo. It has agreed to adhere to the principles of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model, which requires firms to refund victims of APP scams like this one in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case Monzo said that it thought it could 
fairly rely on one of the exceptions set out in the CRM Code  that Mr S didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the fraudster was who he was expecting to pay (the 
national airline), the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person they paid 
was legitimate. 
Mr S referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators upheld his complaint. 
They were of the view that, considering Mr S knowledge and experience, he did hold such a 
belief. 
Monzo disagreed. In summary it said:
- The price was too good to be true, even accepting that Mr S had genuinely been 
given the price quoted by his travel agent. 
- Mr S ought to have known the actual process for booking a flight, as hed used the 
airline before. He should have known that paying a deposit by bank transfer is not the 
typical process.
- While it accepted that the fraudsters applied some pressure, no legitimate airline or 
company would ever accept a bank transfer.
- Hed booked with the airline before, so would have known the legitimate process. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although, in law, Mr S is generally responsible for payments hes authorised himself, Im 
satisfied that none of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code apply and Ive 
decided that Mr S should be refunded in full and Monzo should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the amount of the refund from the date it declined his claim to the date of 
settlement. 
As already set out, Monzo have sought to rely on one exception to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code. It argues that Mr S made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing 
that the fraudster was who he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the person they paid was legitimate. Ive decided that Monzo cant fairly rely 
on this exception for the reasons set out below:
- The CRM Code allows me to take into account Mr S characteristics. He does not 
appear to be a confident user of the internet. His representatives have said that he 
does not often deal with emails or make payments using anything other than cash. 
Ive taken this into account when deciding whether his belief was reasonable.
- Mr S states that in the past hes used a local travel agent to arrange flights and 
received paper tickets. He hadnt booked tickets directly with the airline. So, I dont 
agree that Mr S ought to have been familiar with the booking process, as previous 
flights would have been arranged by the travel agent.
- Although the payments went to a personal rather than a business account, Mr S says 
he didnt really appreciate the difference. Again, I think his lack of concern can be 
explained by his general unfamiliarity with making payments of this type.
- I acknowledge that some of the emails werent particularly professional in 
appearance and were evidently not from the airline in question, but, given Mr S 
knowledge and experience, I dont think he would have reasonably identified that.
- Id generally expect a travel agent to be able to accept card payments and paying by 
bank transfer carries significant risk in circumstances such as these. But, in my 
experience, its not unheard of for bricks and mortar travel agents, of the kind Mr S 
appears to be familiar with, to accept payments by bank transfer.
- Its a little unclear which website Mr S actually used. The phone number he was 
contacted on seems to be connected to a particular website. Mr S representative has 
also provided a screenshot of that website. But Monzo seem to have identified a 
different website in its business file. The website Ive seen is quite professional in 
appearance (though not obviously linked to the national airline). Im also conscious 
that Mr S spoke to an agent at some length and seems to have built some degree of 
rapport with that person. 
- As for the price, Im aware that ticket prices have fluctuated significantly since Mr S 
made these payments, so any comparison with todays prices might not be 
completely accurate. Nevertheless, Ive been able to find flights for a similar price 
and the price Mr S paid was only a little over £100 per person less than his local 
travel agent had quoted.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr S, based on his skills, experience and knowledge and for the 
reasons Ive set out above, held a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payments 
in dispute. I therefore uphold this complaint.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr S:
- The amount lost  £1,785, less any amounts already returned or recovered.
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date Monzo declined Mr S 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman