DRN-2727449
The complaint
Mr O complains Gefion Insurance A/S unfairly declined a claim on his taxi fleet insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr O made a claim on his Gefion taxi fleet insurance policy. One of his 
vehicles had been damaged by water. But Gefion said he had driven it into a flooded area. It 
felt he had failed to take reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle. So it refused to pay the 
claim. 
Mr O wasnt happy with that. So he brought a complaint to this service. He wants Gefion to 
pay the claim. And he feels a claim interview was overbearing. He says the whole episode 
has caused him considerable distress. 
Our investigator didnt think Gefion had acted unfairly by declining the claim. She didnt think 
it was likely the claim interview was intended to be uncomfortable. Mr O didnt accept that 
assessment, so the complaint was been passed to me.
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained that I intended to require 
Gefion to settle Mr Os claim by paying him £6,595 plus £350 compensation. Ive copied in 
the reasons I gave for that.
Gefions refused Mr Os claim for a failure to comply with a condition of his policy. 
The term its referred to is Your duty to prevent loss or damage  You shall at all 
times take reasonable steps to safeguard your vehicle from loss or damage.
I havent been provided with a copy of the policy terms. But its common for motor 
insurance policies to feature such a reasonable care term. So I think its likely Mr 
Os policy does include the term Gefions quoted  or one thats very similar.
When considering the application of a reasonable care term the appropriate test is 
one of recklessness - as applied by courts in Sofi V Prudential. If an insurer wishes 
to turn down a claim for lack of reasonable care it needs to show the claimant acted 
in a way that amounted to recklessness  that they recognised a risk but took it 
anyway by taking no measures at all or measures they knew to be inadequate. 
So to fairly refuse Mr Os claim Gefion needs to have shown that he recognised there 
was a risk of damage to his car. And that having recognised that risk he took no 
action to prevent the damage  or actions he knew to be inadequate. 
Gefions said Mr O overlooked flood warning signs  and continued to drive into a 
large and clearly flooded area causing damage to the car. Its also pointed to Mr O 
saying he drove down the same road about 30 minutes earlier. It says he realised its 
depth then. Mr O has reported the water being only about an inch deep at that point. 
Gefions questioned how the water levels could have risen to be about 18 inches in 
that time. Mr O says it was still about an inch when he entered the water the second 
time  but he was hit by a sudden wave of water from the side that left his car 
stranded.
Gefion say Mr O was negligent by driving the through the flooded area for a second 
time. It feels he should have turned around and taken an alternative route. But I cant 
say its shown he recognised there was a risk but took inadequate actions to prevent 
any damage to the car. Mr Os account seems plausible to me. Hes been consistent 
with his account of what happened. 
He says he wouldnt have driven in to the flooded area if he thought it would damage 
his car. He says the flood signs were covered by overgrown hedge so he didnt see 
them. He says the water looked about the same depth as when he had driven 
through it shortly before. He adds it hadnt been raining hard since. On balance Im 
persuaded he didnt think there was a risk.
So Gefion cant fairly rely on the reasonable care term to refuse Mr Os claim. I cant 
see any other reason why the claim shouldnt be paid. So I intend to require it to 
settle Mr Os claim. The vehicle is considered a total loss. Gefions provided 
valuations from two trade guides to produce a market value of £7,095. Ive no reason 
to think that isnt fair. It seems reasonable to settle the claim based on that. The 
policy has a £500 excess so Gefion can deduct that from the settlement. That makes 
a settlement of £6,595. 
Gefions failure to pay the claim has left Mr O unfairly without those funds for some 
time. To recognise that it should add simple interest at 8% from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement.
I can see this matter has caused Mr O a fair amount of distress and inconvenience. 
Hes had to deal with the unusable car. Hes had to buy a replacement vehicle. And 
hes clearly found having the claim unfairly declined quite distressing. This seemed to 
have come at a particularly bad time for him personally. So Gefion should pay him 
some compensation to recognise that. I think £350 will be a reasonable amount. 
In the provisional decision I asked Mr O and Gefion to provide anything they would like me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both Gefion and Mr O provided information in response to my provisional decision. Ive 
considered everything provided. Where I feel it necessary to do so, Ive addressed their 
responses in this final decision.
Gefion said it had refused Mr Os claims on two grounds. First of all Mr Os failure to take 
reasonable care. I considered that in my provisional decision.  
And secondly his failure to provide it with the location of the incident. There was reference to 
Mr Os failure to provide this information in previous correspondence. But it wasnt clear 
Gefion was referring to it as a reason for refusing the claim. Because of that I havent 
previously considered it. Gefion says Mr Os failure to give the location prejudiced its investigation of the claim. It says 
for example, it couldnt check flood warnings for the location, contact the Environmental 
Agency for information on the area or asses the scene of the incident.
The location of the incident is reasonable information for Gefion to request. I can understand 
why its absence might be detrimental to its consideration of the claim. Its accepted by Mr O 
that he didnt initially provide the location. 
Mr Os claim statement, taken by Gefions investigators confirms he didnt provide it. He says 
he didnt know the road name or exact area, he didnt know the area, had been following his 
satnav and couldnt find the location using internet maps. Ive no reason to think he was 
deliberately withholding the location. 
Importantly the witness statement records Mr O as suggesting the roadside assistance firm, 
that recovered his vehicle, as possibly having a record of the incident location. Mr O says the 
claim investigator didnt ask him to pursue this possibility. The witness statement nor the 
investigators subsequent report make any reference to such a request. 
Theres nothing to show Gefion or its investigator made any attempt to contact the roadside 
assistance provider or asked Mr O to do so. Instead a few days later the investigator 
produced their report stating Mr O couldnt provide the location. Then a few weeks later, 
seemingly without any further enquiry about the location or request to Mr O, Gefion issued a 
claim decline letter. 
Overall, I dont think Gefion did enough to follow up on Mr Os suggestion that the recovery 
firm might have a record of the location. Hes since provided this service with the location. 
The recovery firm provided it to him he says. Mr O says he passed the location information 
to Gefion or his broker. He thinks he did that before it issued its claim decline letter. 
I havent seen any record of that. But in any event that doesnt make a difference. Even if he 
didnt, had Gefion taken reasonable steps to follow up on Mr Os suggestion, I think its likely 
it would have been provided with the location. Not doing so may have been detrimental to 
Gefions claim investigation. But I cant fairly say Mr O is responsible for that. So I dont feel 
the absence of information on the incident location is a fair or reasonable ground for refusing 
the claim.  
Gefion provided other information in response to the provisional decision. Much of it Ive 
seen previously. Gefion still feels Mr O failed to take reasonable care. Its latest information 
says that as a professional driver he didnt follow professional advice to check the safety of 
the road and take reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle. Its made various comments 
about what advice Mr O should have followed. It repeated some doubt of his account. But 
ultimately it hasnt provided enough to show, as its required to when relying on a reasonable 
care term, that the policyholder recognised the risk but took it anyway.
So I havent been provided with enough to say Gefion fairly and reasonably refused Mr Os 
claim. I still require it to settle the claim. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr O said the market value I used to settle the claim, 
£7,095, is too low. He felt it might be based on current values, rather than those from the 
time of the loss. The valuations I referred to seem have been run by Gefion fairly close to the 
time of the loss, although I cant say which exact date was used. Ive checked a few trade 
guides. Ive considered everything Mr O has said. But I havent seen enough to make me 
think a market value of £7,095 is too low. In my provisional decision I said I intended to require Gefion to pay Mr O £6,995 to settle the 
claim. I didnt realise there was outstanding finance on the car. Ive since told Mr O that 
Gefion may need to clear the finance before paying him whats left. He said he understands 
why. 
So Gefion will need to settle the claim using a market value of £7,095. It can deduct £500 
excess from that. It should clear any finance if Mr Os agreement requires it to do so and pay 
him whats left. As hes unfairly been without those funds as a result of Gefions mistake it 
should add simple interest at 8% to the amount hes to be paid. This should be added from 
the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
In my provisional decision I said I intended to require Gefion to pay Mr O £350 compensation 
to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused him. Ive considered 
both Mr Os and Gefions response. But I havent been provided with anything thats made 
me change my position on this. So Gefion will need to pay Mr O £350 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Gefion Insurance A/S to settle Mr Os claim with a 
market value of £7,095. It can deduct the £500 policy excess from that amount. If Mr Os 
finance agreement requires it to do so it should clear the outstanding debt first and pay Mr O 
the remaining amount. It should add simple interest to what it pays him at 8% from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement. It will also need to pay him £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman