DRN-4506269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) didnt provide a fair and 
reasonable response to their claim under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product financed by a loan they provided.  
What happened
In or around December 2017, Mr and Mrs D agreed to purchase a timeshare product from a 
supplier, who Ill refer to as A. At that time, Mr and Mrs D were already existed customers 
of A and, as such, already held a timeshare product with them. The purchase price agreed 
was £27,600 which was partially funded under a Fixed-sum loan agreement of £22,500 over 
120 months with VFL. 
In June 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs D submitted a 
claim to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The PR alleged that Mr and Mrs D 
purchased the timeshare product having relied upon representations made by A which 
turned out not to be true. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL are jointly liable for 
those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR allege A had misrepresented the product as 
something which was highly desirable and could be sold easily at a profit  an investment 
for re-sale.
The PR also allege that the misrepresentation, together with other things done (or not done) 
by A rendered the relationship with VFL, under the agreements, unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, the PR allege that A:
told Mr and Mrs D that VFL had the best (finance) deal on offer but made no 
comparisons to other lenders nor informed them they could arrange their own 
finance;
failed to disclose whether a commission had been paid to them by VFL;
didnt give Mr and Mrs D the opportunity to read and understand the purchase and 
loan agreements;
undertook no checks to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr and Mrs D; 
and
pressured Mr and Mrs D into entering into the purchase and credit agreements.
The PR suggest As actions and omissions also constituted breaches of the legislation and 
regulations that applied here.
While VFL provided acknowledgement of Mr and Mrs Ds claim, it appears a substantive 
response wasnt forthcoming. So, the PR referred the claim to this service as a complaint.
One of this services investigators considered all the information and evidence provided. 
Having done so, they didnt think VFLs failure to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. In particular, our investigator said they werent able to find any evidence to 
support the various allegations.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and didnt believe the claim under S75 
and S140A had been properly considered. They provided a lengthy submission reiterating 
many of the original allegations and making reference to other (similar) cases and 
complaints together with examples of case law they believe should apply here.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint was passed to me 
to consider and reach a decision. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, Id considered a number of issues which I dont feel were 
previously fully addressed or explained. So, I issued a provisional decision on 10 November 
2023 giving both sides the chance to respond before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
and Mrs D paid for the timeshare product under a restricted use fixed sum loan 
agreement. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr and Mrs D are 
afforded the protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. And as 
a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr D, Mrs D and VFL arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint this service is able to consider specifically relates to 
whether I believe VFLs failure to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me, rather than 
actually deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authorityevidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr and Mrs D something that wasnt true in relation to the 
allegation raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentation was 
material in inducing Mr and Mrs D to enter into the contract. This means I would need 
to be persuaded that they reasonably relied upon false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare points.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr and Mrs D were 
specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the products they purchased. It 
was, however, indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the evidence that is available from the time. Although not determinative of 
the matter, I havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr 
and Mrs Ds claim, such as marketing material or documentation from the time of the 
sale that echoes what the PR says they were told. In particular relating to the product 
being represented as highly desirable and easy to sell for a profit. Or that it was sold 
as a financial investment. Theres simply no reference to this within any of the 
documentation provided.
I think it unlikely the product can have been marketed and sold as investment 
contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent 
value to it. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
Mr and Mrs D purchased. A would had to have presented the product in such a way 
that used any investment element to persuade them to contract. Only then would 
they have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday 
products as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs.
The PR have referred to other (similar) cases and complaints suggesting that these 
give clear evidence of systematic failures and breaches in As sales presentations 
and representations. My role here is to consider the evidence available specifically 
relating to Mr and Mrs Ds experience. Whilst I acknowledge the PRs comments, it 
isnt the role of this service to make legal findings (or otherwise) about A or their 
actions  substantiated or not. Because of that, Im unable to consider findings in 
other (unrelated) complaints as I cant see how these would assist me in establishing 
the facts of what actually happened in Mr and Mrs Ds specific circumstances.
Furthermore, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that A were contractually bound 
to provide a timeshare resale service. And even if they were, Ive seen nothing that 
suggests they gave any guarantee of a successful sale or that a profit could be 
achieved. While Mr and Mrs D may well have intended to purchase the timeshare 
product as a financial investment, I cant reasonably say that intention was due to 
anything A said to them. 
Based upon the specific evidence available in Mr and Mrs Ds case, I cant say, with 
any certainty, that A did misrepresent the product in the manner alleged.
The breach of contract claim under S75
As far as I understand, whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr and Mrs D believe theres been a 
breach of contract which resulted in a loss for them, I havent seen anything that 
would lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140AThe court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs D) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transaction that operates harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin3, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). And I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr and 
Mrs Ds existing membership and relationship with A. Theyd previously purchased 
products from A, so I think its reasonable to conclude they had a reasonably strong 
awareness about the product they purchased, how it operated and any associated 
costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs D were familiar with A (as a 
timeshare supplier) the format of their meetings and sales presentations, and their 
documentation. Particularly as the purchase in December 2017 certainly wasnt their 
first. 
The pressured sale and process
The claim suggests Mr and Mrs D were pressured into purchasing the product and 
entering into the finance agreement with VFL. Its also suggested they felt they 
couldnt leave meetings with A until a purchase was agreed. 
I acknowledge what the PR have said about this. So, I can understand why it might 
be argued that any prolonged presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as Mr and Mrs D approached the closing stages, they were going to 
have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may 
not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs D agreed to the purchase and the finance agreement 
in 2017 when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate 
that they went on to say something to A, after the purchase, suggesting theyd 
agreed to it when they didnt want to. And neither the PR nor Mr and Mrs D have 
provided a credible explanation for why they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the 
transaction within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here  both under the 
purchase and loan agreements. 
3 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt pressured, I find this aspect 
difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr and Mrs D were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
agreements. And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs D made the decision to proceed because their ability 
to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary 
to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Time to read and consider the information provided
Ive thought about the information that I believe should have been provided to Mr and 
Mrs D as required under the TRs. It appears Mr and Mrs D signed a document 
headed Membership Application Terms & Conditions. Point 2 of that document 
references the various documents I would expect to see here. It also includes the 
statement, The Applicant acknowledges receipt of such documents []. Based 
upon this, it appears Mr and Mrs D were provided with all the required 
documentation. 
Furthermore, point 10 of the Membership Application Agreement  also signed by Mr 
and Mrs D  makes it clear they have the right to cancel and withdraw from the 
contract within 14 days. Its possible Mr and Mrs D werent given sufficient time to 
read and consider the contents of the documentation at the times of the sale. But 
even if I were to find that was the case  and I make no such finding  Its clear Mr 
and Mrs D still had 14 days to consider their purchase and raise any questions or 
concerns they mightve had. And ultimately, if they were unhappy or uncertain, they 
couldve cancelled the agreement without incurring any costs.
Furthermore, the finance agreement also included a withdrawal/cancellation period of 
14 days. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs D did raise any questions 
or concerns about either agreement. 
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr and Mrs Ds S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their (and VFLs) resultant responsibilities towards them. In 
particular, its argued that the payment of commission by VFL to D was kept from 
them. But I dont think the fact that VFL might have paid A commission was 
incompatible with their role in the transaction. 
A werent acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs D, but as the supplier of contractual 
rights they obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the 
loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr and Mrs D advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, they was always at liberty to choose 
how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs D requested those details from 
VFL (or A) at any point. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court 
would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission wouldve created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Ds claim that could be considered outside 
of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The PR allege that a proper affordability check wasnt completed by A.Ordinarily, responsibility falls with the lender to conduct affordability checks as set out 
within the rules and guidance in the FCA Handbook (CONC4)  VFL in this case. But 
they havent explained what (if any) affordability assessment they undertook when Mr 
and Mrs D first applied for the loan with them. 
Its relevant that the PR havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D. And Ive not seen anything that supports 
any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
If I were to find that VFL hadnt complied with the regulatory guidelines and 
requirements that applied here  and I make no such finding  I would need to be 
satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan 
repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr and Mrs D in order to uphold their 
complaint here. Furthermore, even if I were to find that VFL failed to comply with 
those regulations  and I also make no such finding - I dont believe that would 
automatically mean that Mr and Mrs Ds loan agreement is null and void. It would 
need to be proven that any such failures resulted in a loss to Mr and Mrs D as a 
consequence.
But as Ive seen no specific information about Mr and Mrs Ds actual position at the 
time and no supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for them. Or that they suffered any 
loss as a consequence.
Summary
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs D that Ive carefully considered everything thats been 
said and provided. Having done so, I havent found any evidence from the time of the 
sale to support the allegations included within their claim. So, whilst it appears VFL 
havent yet issued a substantive response, I cant say that their failure to uphold their 
claim was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. And because of that, I dont currently 
intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite follow up by this service, none of the parties to this complaint have provided any 
comment or further information for consideration. In the circumstances, Ive no reason to 
vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman
4 The Consumer Credit Sourcebook