DRN-3686386
The complaint
Mrs B isnt happy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt allow her to withdraw money from her 
account.
What happened
Mrs B went into a Santander branch with a friend and asked to withdraw £3,000. Santander 
wouldnt allow her to withdraw the money and questioned her as to why she wanted to 
withdraw it. Santander also called the police, who spoke with her friend about the matter. 
Mrs B wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs Bs complaint. They explained that theyd had concerns that Mrs B 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam, and that under such circumstances they 
have an obligation to take action in the way that they did. However, Santander accepted that 
what happened may have been upsetting for Mrs B, and so they apologised to her for this 
and made a payment of £100 to her by way of compensation.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that 
Santander had already issued to Mrs B, including the payment of £100 compensation, 
already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Police Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative aimed at identifying customers who 
may be in the process of being defrauded and implementing safeguarding procedures to 
prevent customers losing their funds. Banks such as Santander are expected to follow the 
protocol when their staff have reason to suspect that potential fraud might be taking place.
The protocol includes that staff members should question their account holder to understand 
why they want to withdraw or transfer the funds that theyve asked to, as well as call the 
police into branch to investigate the matter. 
In this instance, Santanders staff did have concerns about the £3,000 that Mrs B had asked 
to withdraw, and which they understood she wished to give to a third-party. Circumstances 
such as this can be indicative of a potential attempted scam, and so I dont feel that 
Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably by following the Police Banking Protocol as they 
did, given that they would be expected to follow this protocol in these circumstances, and 
given that the purpose of their following the protocol was to try to protect Mrs Bs money.
Mrs B and Santander have provided conflicting information as to exactly how the protocol 
was followed. For instance, Mrs B has stated that Santander questioned her about the 
attempted withdrawal in the main area of the branch and in front of other customers, 
whereas Santander have explained that Mrs B was taken into a private office and 
questioned there. 
In circumstances such as this, where the testimony of parties differs, I have to decide  if I 
feel its possible to do so  which version of events I feel is more likely to have happened, on 
balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
The Police Banking Protocol specifically includes that if the initial questions asked by counter 
staff arent answered to the satisfaction of the counter staff, then a more senior member of 
staff should take the customer into a private room before asking further questions. And given 
that Santander were following that protocol, and that theyve stated that Mrs B was taken to 
a private room, I dont feel that there is sufficient evidence here for me to reasonably 
conclude that its more likely than not that Mrs B was asked further questions in a public area 
of the branch as Mrs B contends.
Santander have confirmed that Mrs Bs friend was interviewed by police in a public area of 
the branch but note that the actions of the police in this regard were outside of their control. 
It also must be noted that this complaint is brought to this service in Mrs Bs name, and that 
as such its what happened to Mrs B in branch  and not what happened to her friend  
thats under consideration here.
I can appreciate that Mrs B feels that there was never a risk of her being scammed and that 
she trusted her friend with whom she had a long history. But the question here isnt whether 
Mrs B was being scammed, but whether it was reasonable for Santander to believe that Mrs 
B might be at risk of being scammed. And, given the circumstances of this complaint, as 
explained above, I feel that it was reasonable for Santander to hold such concerns. 
Santander have acknowledged that the experience may have been upsetting for Mrs B, 
including that Mrs Bs account remained restricted until she visited branch again 
approximately four weeks later and arranged for the restrictions to be removed. And 
Santander have apologised to Mrs B for this and made a payment of £100 to her by way of 
compensation. 
This seems fair to me, and I feel that the concerns that Santander had about Mrs Bs 
withdrawal request, as well as their responsibilities to protect Mrs Bs money from potential 
scams, mean that ultimately it was reasonable for them to follow and apply the Police 
Banking Protocol as they did  even at the risk of upsetting Mrs B  rather than simply 
allowing the transfer of the money to the friend to have taken place.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope that Mrs 
B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman