DRN-1618164
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that The Share Centre Limited ("TSC") failed to provide him with clear 
information about its charges when his accounts were transferred due to his previous 
provider going into liquidation.
What happened
During 2018 the business of Mr E's previous provider was transferred to TSC by 
administrators. Account holders were sent information on the transfer by the administrators, 
which included links to a 'welcome letter' and other documents relating to The Share 
Centre's business. Mr E had two accounts that were transferred with relatively small 
holdings in them.
After some months Mr E received notification of overdue account fees, which he queried. He 
was told that his accounts now featured ongoing management charges that would apply 
regardless of whether there was any trading activity. He was unhappy with this as he didn't 
feel the introduction of charges had been made clear to him as part of the transfer process, 
and he wouldn't have continued with the accounts if he had been aware.
Mr E made a complaint but it wasn't upheld as TSC felt Mr E had been provided with 
sufficient information about the charges.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as TSC. He noted that on 3 September 2018 the administrators had emailed account 
holders with information about the transfer, which included links to the TSC's welcome letter, 
terms of business and tariff of costs. Further, TSC had then emailed independently on 20 
September 2018 with details of how to access on-line accounts. Mr E confirmed that he'd 
acted upon this information and accessed his accounts. The investigator therefore felt TSC 
had done sufficient to make Mr E aware of the changes, its terms and its costs.
Mr E didn't accept the investigator's view. He highlighted a number of the Financial Conduct 
Authority's principles and how he felt TSC's actions had failed to abide by them, with the 
information on pricing unfairly hidden away behinds email links to lengthy documents. He 
also felt that TSC should've issued a reminder that it had offered a cost-free exit from its 
service within the first three months of the transfer of the business.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his view of the complaint. Mr E added that he 
felt there was considerable inconsistency in the way that financial businesses communicated 
this sort of information, and he provided an example relating to another business he'd dealt 
with, which he felt had communicated similar changes much more clearly and fairly.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E feels very strongly that TSC acted unfairly in failing to make clear that his 
accounts would become subject to ongoing charges - something that, given their size and 
purpose, made keeping them with TSC impractical.
I've looked at the way that information about the transfer was communicated and while I 
accept that the ongoing charge information could have been made clearer, I don't think I can 
reasonably conclude that it should have been made clearer.
The information provided by the administrators and then TSC was generic information 
intended to cover of all aspects of a very significant change - the transfer of business to a 
new provider. In Mr E's specific circumstances - and I accept for some other customers too - 
the introduction of the charge would've been the most significant issue. So, it would clearly 
have been useful to have had it highlighted, up-front in the emails.
But I don't think in the context of communicating about the transfer itself and all the related 
information about how TSC operated, its terms of business, etc., TSC acted unfairly or 
incorrectly by 'hiding away' the charging information. The information was provided and 
referenced in several places. I think it's reasonable to expect affected account holders to 
give fairly thorough consideration to the information provided.
Ultimately, as I've said, the information could have been provided differently, but I don't think 
the way in which it actually was communicated was wrong or specifically lacking in any way. 
I therefore don't feel I can reasonably find that TSC acted incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman