DRN-3825078
The complaint
Mr J complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined his 
claim on his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen, and LV had the cars data examined. It said this showed that the car 
had been unlocked at the time of the theft. It said this was an exclusion in the policy. And so 
it declined the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV had 
reasonably relied on analysis of the cars data by a dealers garage that showed that the car 
had been unlocked at the time. He also thought LV had reasonably relied on expert advice 
that there was no reason not to rely on this data. And he thought CCTV footage didnt show 
whether the car had been locked or not. So he thought LV had reasonably relied on the 
policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
Mr J replied that hed left the car unlocked on a private drive for just a few minutes. He 
thought LV had unfairly declined the claim. Mr J asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated and disappointed by LVs decision. I can see that 
this leaves him considerably out of pocket. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr J described the theft circumstances. He parked the car on his daughters drive, and they 
went into her house. Mr J initially said he thought hed locked the car. He had the keys with 
him. But he later told LV that he couldnt recall seeing the side mirrors retract which would 
show that the car was locked. The car was taken after six minutes. CCTV footage showed 
the thief kneeling by the car door and then getting in and driving off. 
LV looked at data provided by Mr J from an app in the car. I can see that this showed that 
the car had been unlocked at the time of the theft. It obtained expert advice to show that if 
the car had been locked, then the theft couldnt have taken place by various sophisticated 
means. LV told Mr J:
there is a known vulnerability with these vehicles when they are left unlocked in that using 
specialist equipment, a vehicle can be taken without the use of a key in a very short time. 
if these vehicles are locked they are protected by Ultrahigh Bandwidth frequencies which 
prevent relay thefts and signal jammers.
Ive looked at the CCTV footage from Mr Js neighbours camera and I cant say from this 
whether or not the car was locked or unlocked at the time. So Im satisfied that the evidence 
shows that the car had been left unlocked at the time of the theft. And if it had been locked, 
then this would have prevented the theft taking place. 
LV declined the claim because the car had been left unlocked. I can see that LV relied on 
the following exclusion in Mr Js policy to decline his claim:
Section 2: Loss or Damage - What is not covered
 Loss of/or damage to the Insured Car arising from Theft if the Insured Car was not 
switched off, properly locked or if any door, window, roof opening, removable roof panel or 
hood was left open or unlocked.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable, but it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out clearly in the policy 
wording, which it is. But I cant see that its included in the summary documents where it 
would be more readily brought to Mr Js attention. 
I can see that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) states that theft isnt 
covered if the keys are left in or on the unattended car. But Mr J thought that the exclusion 
regarding locking the car should have been better brought to his attention, such as including 
it in the IPID. So Ive considered whether this would have made a difference in the claim. 
I can see that the IPID confirms the requirement to protect the car from any loss or damage. 
I also think that locking the car if it is unattended is a very common security measure. And 
Im satisfied that LV has shown evidence that leaving the car unlocked increased the 
likelihood of its theft.  
Mr J himself initially insisted that he had locked the car which I think shows that he 
understood this requirement. And so Im satisfied that including the exclusion in the IPID 
wouldnt have caused Mr J to behave differently. Also, Im satisfied that Mr J recognised that 
there was a risk and didnt take steps to avert it and therefore I dont think he took 
reasonable care to protect his car. 
Mr J thought the absolute nature of the policy exclusion was unreasonable. We think its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to rely on the car being left unlocked to decline a claim where 
the car has been left unattended. This is where the driver isnt in a position to deter a thief. 
From Mr Js account, he and his daughter were inside her house for six minutes. They heard 
a door close and had to look through a window to see what was happening. They were 
clearly not in a position to deter a thief. 
And so Im satisfied the car was left unlocked and unattended at the time of the theft. And I 
therefore think it was fair and reasonable, and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions, for LV to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman