DRN-3112026
The complaint
Miss F1 and Miss F2 complain about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC after their father, Mr F 
passed away.
Miss F1 and Miss F2s concerns relate to their late fathers accounts (in their capacity as 
executors of his estate) and the partnership accounts that were set up in their names after 
he passed away. 
In this decision I will be considering their concerns relating to their partnership accounts. The 
complaint they have brought in their capacity as executors of the estate of Mr F will be dealt 
with separately. 
What happened
Miss F1 and Miss F2s father, Mr F, was a sole trader who held three business accounts and 
one personal account with Lloyds. In August 2020, Mr F passed away, leaving Miss F1 and 
Miss F2 to sort out his estate and the running of his businesses.
Lloyds advised Miss F2 to set up three new partnership accounts with her sister for the 
running of the businesses. They completed the paperwork but found they were unable to 
access funds from one of the accounts. Miss F2 reported this to Lloyds and also asked when 
the funds from her late fathers accounts would be transferred to the new accounts theyd set 
up. Lloyds then told them that the funds couldnt be released without a Grant of Probate.
Miss F2 raised a complaint with Lloyds. She said shed previously been told shed be able to 
transfer money from her fathers business accounts which had balances of less than 
£50,000. She was concerned about paying bills and costs relating to the businesses.
Miss F2 had several further conversations with Lloyds. There were discussions about an 
overdraft facility being granted on the new partnership accounts. But Lloyds said it wasnt 
able to grant this without the borrowing being secured. 
In response to Miss F2s complaint, Lloyds said it wasnt able to release the funds from her 
fathers accounts without a Grant of Probate because the total balance exceeded £50,000. It 
apologised for giving incorrect information previously. Lloyds said it was permitted to release 
funds for the reimbursement of funeral costs, inheritance tax and probate fees and 
suggested Miss F2 contact its bereavement team to discuss this further. 
Lloyds said it wasnt able to agree to an interest free overdraft and any borrowing would 
need to be secured because the new partnership accounts were looked at as a new 
business. It acknowledged the delay in one of the new accounts being registered for internet 
banking. 
Lloyds apologised for not offering a better service. It offered to pay £500 and to cover the 
cost of calls and travel expenses Miss F2 incurred.
Miss F2 remained unhappy, so she asked our service to look into her concerns. Following 
our involvement, Lloyds said it was willing to increase the compensation it had previously 
offered from £500 to £750. £475 of this would be for the complaint brought in the name of 
Miss F1 and Miss F2. Lloyds said it had also agreed to cover the cost of phone calls made 
by Miss F2 as well as mileage and parking costs she incurred from visits to the branch to 
resolve the matter but would require a breakdown of costs to consider these. Lloyds said the 
three accounts Miss F1 and Miss F2 had set up could be closed without consequence within 
the fee free period.
Our investigator thought Lloyds offer to put things right was fair but Miss F1 and Miss F2 
disagreed. Miss F2 said Lloyds already knew the facts regarding her late fathers accounts, 
the business and the estate when it offered her the option of an interest free overdraft. She 
didnt think Lloyds should have asked her for security for the overdraft when it held sufficient 
funds to cover the borrowing in her fathers accounts. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy towards Miss F1 and Miss F2 who have had to deal 
not only with the loss of their father, but with taking on his businesses. This has no doubt 
been a difficult and worrying time for them. But what Ive needed to consider is whether or 
not Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably, in line with its terms and conditions.
Opening the accounts
Miss F1 and Miss F2 say they wouldnt have opened the three partnership accounts if Lloyds 
had given them the correct information about accessing the funds in their late fathers 
accounts. 
Lloyds said that Miss F1 and Miss F2 would be able to close the three accounts without 
penalty before the twelve month fee free period expired if they chose to do so. So, I dont 
think Miss F1 and Miss F2 have lost out financially from opening the accounts. But I 
appreciate they experienced unnecessary inconvenience from opening the accounts. So, 
Ive taken this into account when considering if Lloyds offer to put things right is reasonable. 
Internet banking
Lloyds has acknowledged that there was a delay in one of the new partnership accounts 
being registered for banking. It says the registration of all of the accounts should have taken 
place at the same time without Miss F2 needing to contact it several times.
Miss F2 says the bank accounts were supposed to be up and running by the end of October 
2020, but they could only access two out of the three accounts. From what Ive seen this 
issue wasnt resolved until around mid-December 2020. This delay was no doubt frustrating 
for Miss F1 and Miss F2. I can also see that Miss F2 contacted Lloyds several times to try to 
get the issue resolved. So, Ive thought about whether the offer Lloyds has made is enough 
to compensate them for this. 
OverdraftMiss F1 and Miss F2 were expecting to be able to transfer funds from their late fathers 
accounts into their new partnership accounts straight away. Lloyds has acknowledged they 
were likely to have been given the wrong information in the branch. The funds couldnt be 
released without a Grant of Probate. 
I can see that the possibility of an overdraft to help finance the operation of the businesses 
was discussed. Miss F2 says she was told that an interest free overdraft would be granted to 
compensate them for previously being given the wrong information. But Lloyds complaints 
managers notes from the time say that she asked if Miss F2 would like a business manager 
to call her to see if it was able to arrange an overdraft facility on the new partnership 
accounts. Theyve also noted: Ive said we could look to cover the overdraft interest 
charged, as she was given incorrect information. Its possible that the Lloyds didnt make it 
clear to Miss F2 that an overdraft wasnt guaranteed in this conversation. But Miss F2 was 
given the correct information about what was required a few days later. 
Lloyds says it wasnt able to offer an overdraft without security. I appreciate Miss F2 feels 
that it wasnt necessary for her to provide security for the overdraft, given the amount of 
money held in her late fathers accounts. But Im satisfied from the information Lloyds has 
provided that its acted in line with its policy. Our service doesnt have the power to tell a 
business to change its policies or procedures. These are commercial decisions. So, I cant 
say it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have decided not to offer an overdraft to Miss F1 and 
Miss F2 without them providing the necessary security.
Lloyds offer
Lloyds says that £350 of its original offer was to compensate Miss F1 and Miss F2 for the 
issues relating to the new partnership accounts that were opened. It has subsequently 
increased the offer to £475. This is in addition to reimbursing Miss F2 for phone call and 
travel costs incurred when she tried to sort things out.
 
Having considered the overall impact of Lloyds actions on Miss F1 and Miss F2, I think the 
compensation Lloyds is prepared to pay is reasonable. Ive explained why I think it was fair 
for Lloyds to have decided not to grant an overdraft facility. And I think £475 is a reasonable 
amount to compensate Miss F1 and Miss F2 for the frustration and inconvenience they 
experienced from opening the accounts, the delay in access to online banking and any 
miscommunication regarding an overdraft.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss F1 and Miss F2 £475 for trouble and upset. It should also reimburse 
Miss F2 for the costs she incurred phone calls, mileage and parking if she provides it with a 
breakdown of these.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss F1 and Miss F2s complaint and direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F1 and    
Miss F2 to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman