DRN-3430297
The complaint
Ms S complains that Arrow Global failed to show payments she made on a periodic 
statement. 
What happened
Arrow owns an account in Ms S name and she makes regular monthly payments towards 
the outstanding balance. In October 2021 Arrow sent Ms S a periodic statement and said it 
showed the payments shed made between 1 October 2020 and 30 September 2021. 
Ms S contacted Arrow and said not all the payments she made were noted on the periodic 
statement. Ms S complained and asked Arrow to look at her account and check it had 
credited all her payments. 
Arrow issued a final response and said it had located a payment from April 2021 that hadnt 
been credited to the balance. Ms S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed 
to an investigator. Arrow sent us a its file submission which included a record of payments 
Ms S had made. The payment history provided differed to the periodic statement and 
information contained in the final response. 
The investigator upheld Ms S complaint and asked Arrow to send Ms S an updated periodic 
statement that contained all the payments she made. The investigator also recommended 
that Arrow pay Ms S £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Despite issuing their 
view in early March 2022 Arrow didnt respond. As a result, Ms S complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a clear difference between the periodic statement and payment history Arrow sent 
us. I can see payments were made by Ms S between February 2021 and September 2021 
were received by Arrow but not shown on the periodic statement. As a result, the periodic 
statement contained the wrong outstanding balance figure. 
Ms S has been trying to resolve this matter with Arrow for some time now and has asked for 
an updated statement to be issued. I think thats a fair request. I note we have a payment 
history on file which is evidence Ive used to reach my decision. Ill ask our investigator to 
forward a copy of this to Ms S. It shows the outstanding balance was actually £4,812.95 on 
24 September 2021. 
Our investigator recommended Arrow pay Ms S £75 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors. I think thats fair and reflects the level of trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Pay Ms S £75 
- Send Ms S an updated periodic statement showing all payments made for the period 
October 2020 to September 2021
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman