DRN-4234885
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to her irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. She would like all the interest and charges associated with the 
credit card account refunded.
What happened
In January 2016 Lloyds approved a credit card account for Miss B with a credit limit of 
£3,500. When assessing the application, Lloyds asked Miss B about her financial 
circumstances, and it says it obtained a basic credit score before approving the 
lending.
In March 2017 Lloyds increased the credit limit to £4,000. Before doing so, it carried 
out a high-level credit check and modelled what it believed Miss Bs income and major 
outgoings were. It also had the benefit of seeing how she had conducted the account 
over the preceding year or so.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Lloyds checks went far enough and 
didnt reveal any concerns which should have led it to a different lending decision either at 
account opening or when it increased the credit limit. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Miss 
B disagreed, and sent in more evidence. This didnt change what the adjudicator thought, so 
Miss B asked an ombudsman to look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, essentially for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
My starting point in reaching my decision is to first look at what information Lloyds had 
when considering Miss Bs credit card application, and when deciding whether to increase 
her credit limit. Then I need to consider what information it should have gathered, given 
what it knew about Miss B and her circumstances. And, finally, whether any information 
ought to have led Lloyds to conclude that the borrowing in question was unaffordable for 
Miss B.
The regulations in force required potential lenders to carry out proportionate checks and 
prescribed nothing more  so the exact nature and depth of checks that need to be 
carried out in order to be proportionate vary from lending decision to lending decision. 
There was and is no automatic requirement for a lender to, for example, verify what a 
customer is telling them, or review bank statements.
In January 2016 Lloyds asked Miss B about her income and circumstances. She 
disclosed an annual income of £24,000; confirmed that she was living with her parents; 
and that her total monthly outgoings were £200. Unfortunately, given the passage of time 
since this application, the results of the credit check Lloyds carried out are no longer 
available. Its calculations suggested a very healthy monthly disposable income.
Whilst I dont find Miss Bs declaration of £200 monthly outgoings plausible, especially 
given she said she had a dependent, I nonetheless think that under the circumstances 
Lloyds checks went far enough at this stage. It was at the beginning of a lending 
relationship with Miss B and was entitled to rely on the information it gave her. Even 
though its clear her disposable income would not have been only £200 less than her total 
income, she had no housing costs or utility bills to pay. So there was still likely to be a 
comfortable gap between her income and her financial commitments. On the basis of the 
information it had, I dont think Lloyds needed to carry out further checks. And I think it 
was fair and reasonable for it to conclude Miss B could afford the monthly repayments on 
this account in January 2016.
However, by the time it was considering whether to increase her credit limit in March 
2017, I dont think Lloyds checks were proportionate. This is not what the adjudicator 
thought, but as it ultimately makes no difference to the outcome of the complaint, there is 
no need for me to issue a provisional decision explaining my thinking on this point.
There are two key reasons why I think Lloyds ought to have taken further steps to 
understand Miss Bs full financial situation by March 2017. Firstly, it had granted a large 
personal loan to her in February 2017  one which was more than 50% of her annual 
gross income. So it knew that she had a large amount of unsecured borrowing in relation 
to her income with Lloyds alone. In fact Miss B had also taken out a large loan with a 
different lender in August 2018, which Im satisfied Lloyds knew about, as the repayment 
for that loan appears to have been reflected in its assessment of what her monthly 
unsecured credit commitments were. As you would therefore expect, the proportion of her 
monthly income needed to service debt was considerable.
Secondly, there had been several late payments, and one missed payment, on the credit 
card account at the end of 2016. So that ought to have flagged a potential concern too. 
And therefore I conclude that Lloyds did not complete proportionate checks before 
granting this credit limit increase, despite the fact that it was an increase of less than 15% 
of the existing limit.
What would Lloyds have likely found and what ought it to have concluded, had it carried 
out proportionate checks in March 2017?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of bank statements to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on a lender to 
obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely on a range 
of evidence when assessing affordability, and so Lloyds could have opted to gather more 
information about Miss Bs financial position in a range of ways. However, it didnt, and, in 
the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the statements to demonstrate 
what Lloyds would most likely have discovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
Effectively, the bank statements dont show anything that ought to have led Lloyds to 
conclude that increasing her credit limit by £500 would lead to any harm to Miss B. Whilst 
her income was lower than that estimated by Lloyds, and so the proportion of her income 
needed to service was indeed substantial, her account was well managed, with only one 
example of her using an overdraft for a modest amount. She does not appear to have any 
dependence on borrowing at that stage and was making all repayments as required on her 
accounts. Generally, she seems to have had disposable income each month and the ability 
to spend that discretionarily on non-essential items. It seems that she continued to have no 
housing costs or related utility bills to pay.Taking what the bank statements show in conjunction with Miss Bs conduct of the credit 
card account in question, Lloyds decision to increase the limit does not look to be 
problematic.
It is clear that the majority of the balance on the credit card account at this point was in 
relation to balance transfers that Miss B had undertaken to clear other accounts  the 
interest rate on this credit card being at 0%. So despite the number of late, and the one 
missed, payment(s), overall her use of the account looked to be well managed, and even 
strategic in terms of clearing more expensive debt elsewhere. Miss Bs other spending on 
the credit card, beyond the balance transfers, was fairly limited. And there are several 
examples of her paying more than the minimum repayment, despite the interest rate 
apparently still being at 0%. The conduct of the account does not suggest someone who is 
reliant on borrowing or is experiencing financial difficulties.
In the round, the evidence Lloyds would have had if it had completed more thorough checks 
would not have led it to a different lending decision. The available information strongly 
suggests the borrowing ought to have been affordable and sustainable for Miss B. It 
therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman