DRN-3553381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated them fairly, 
following a claim on their building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a new-build property, that was covered by a ten-year building warranty 
policy. The policy started in June 2008.
In February 2018, Mr and Mrs F reported an issue with their roof and an issue with cracking. 
NHBC went on to accept the claim for the cracking and completed repairs. This complaint 
only concerns the roof.
During the last eight years of the policy, i.e. years 3-10, section 3 covers damage if caused 
by a defect in the roof or its coverings. The policy defines damage as physical damage, 
and it defines a defect as a breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement at the time of 
construction. 
For a claim to succeed it must also meet the minimum claim value, which increases each 
year in-line with the RICS House Re-building Cost Index. In February 2018, the minimum 
claim value was £1,564.
When making the roof claim, Mr and Mrs F provided a roof inspection report by a surveyor. 
In summary, the report set out the following:
- The bottom edges of the roof tiles appear to be retaining moisture due to the surface 
finish, or by water becoming trapped under the edge with capillary movement.
- The weathering of the tiles is premature, and they are in a far poorer condition than 
they should be after nine years. It appears the surface glaze has deteriorated, and 
the coarse finish is further slowing the discharge of rainwater across the roof.
- A small number of tiles had surface signs of erosion and pitting. Tile fragments were 
also found on the roof, which appear to be from damaged tiles and interlocking tile 
lap joints.
- The measurements taken from a neighbouring property suggest Mr and Mrs Fs roof 
pitch is 16 (but thats dependant on the head lap of the tiles) and the tile pitch is 
10.5. The tile manufacturers minimum pitch is 17.5, but its not clear if thats 
referring to the roof pitch or the tile pitch.
- A roof pitch of 16 is also below the 30 standard generally suggested by BS:5534. 
However, that code of practice also notes certain tile designs may be used below 
30.
- Fascias and exposed timber rafters at ridge level were found to be deteriorating in 
areas, with slight cracking around the joints between the rafters and facia boards. 
The external timber elements should have regular maintenance carried out. 
NHBC inspected the roof and identified 26 tiles with manufacturing defects. NHBC noted that 
there was no internal water damage. NHBC accepted the damaged tiles were covered under 
section 3, but it concluded the cost of replacing those tiles wouldnt meet the minimum claim 
value. Nonetheless, the tile manufacturer offered to replace the defective tiles for free.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with NHBCs claim decision. They pointed towards their own 
report and raised concern that the defective tiles were symptomatic of a more significant 
issue. They highlighted their surveyors observations about the pitch of the roof, and his 
concern further tiles will also fail and need replacing in the future. 
In response, NHBC explained it only considers damage thats apparent, which is limited to 
the 26 tiles.
The tile manufacturer replaced the 26 defective tiles. However, Mr and Mrs F say replacing 
those tiles didnt comprehensively address the issues. They say there was continuing rot 
and water damage to the soffits and the underlying roof structure; water ingress in the 
landing and a bedroom; and significant water marks down an external wall.
Mr and Mr F say they had three roofers attend, who all concluded the external water marks 
were indicative of significant water ingress under the roof tiles. Two of the roofers also 
expressed concern the tiles were inadequate for the slope and pitch of the roof.
Mr and Mrs F also say, in January 2021, they had no option but to replace the roof. The work 
cost them £13,400. They say their roofer confirmed there was extensive damage to the roof 
and beneath the tiles, and this was due to water ingress that had been ongoing before their 
building warranty policy expired. They say their roofer also identified broken watergates, 
which are the side lap to tiles, where the adjacent tiles link together.
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs F contacted NHBC about its previous assessment of their roof 
claim and the £13,400 repairs. However, NHBC explained it was unable to assist because 
the further issues had occurred after the policy had ended.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service. In summary, they made the following 
points:
- In 2018, NHBC werent willing to carry out exploratory work to establish the extent of 
the underlying damage beneath the tiles, nor did its report refer to the rotting wood 
and soffits. NHBC also failed to consider the broken watergates, or whether that 
issue had caused water damage.
- NHBC failed to address their surveyors concerns about the roof pitch and the 
suitability of the tiles.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr and Mrs Fs policy covers damage if its reported within years 3-10, i.e. before the policy 
ends. The damage must be caused by a defect, and the repairs must exceed the minimum 
claim value.
Mr and Mrs F say NHBC should have undertaken more extensive investigations in 2018, and 
had it done so, it would have identified an issue with the pitch of the roof, broken watergates, 
and water damage to the underlying roof structure. They say the necessary repairs would 
have exceeded the minimum claim value.
Roof pitch and weathered tiles
I accept Mr and Mrs Fs roof inspection report pointed towards weathering above what would 
normally be expected, which it linked to an issue with the roof pitch and the suitability of the 
tiles. However, on the other hand, the tile manufacturer accepted the issue was a 
manufacturing defect with 26 tiles.
Even if there was a wider weathering issue beyond the 26 defective tiles and the weathering 
could reasonably be considered as damage, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
weathering was due to the roof pitch or the use of unsuitable tiles (or any other defect). 
Mr and Mrs Fs roof inspection report relies on assumptions when suggesting the roof pitch 
is less than the tile manufacturers minimum pitch, and it acknowledges certain tile designs 
can perform at less than the 30 standard. Therefore, I dont find it persuasive evidence 
there was a roof pitch issue.
Other damage
When considering a claim, NHBC ought to be considering whether the reported defects have 
caused hidden damage. However, thats not to say NHBC needs to undertake intrusive 
investigations for every claim, but rather, it should, in my view, take a proportionate 
approach based on the information available. 
In 2018, no internal water damage was reported at Mr and Mrs Fs property. Mr and Mrs Fs 
roof inspection report didnt suggest any significant underlying damage had occurred either, 
and it linked the fascia and rafter damage to a maintenance issue. So, Im not persuaded 
NHBC ought unreasonably to have investigated the underlying roof structure in 2018.
Equally, although Mr and Mrs F have provided the invoice for their roof, it doesnt comment 
on the damage or what caused the damage. Ive not seen anything that supports damage 
existed to the underlying roof structure before the policy expired.
If Mr and Mrs F, or their surveyor, had reason to doubt NHBCs findings in 2018, it was for 
them to provide further information at that time to support their claim, such as evidence of 
the damage they allege existed to the underlying roof structure and the watergates. They 
cant reasonably return to NHBC some three years later, particularly having already 
replaced the roof. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman