DRN-1540828
 
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly closed her accounts after she 
received a credit which she couldnt explain.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs N and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In July 2019 a credit was received onto Mrs Ns account for £250. Santander regarded that 
credit as suspicious and contacted Mrs N by telephone to discuss it and seek further 
information. Mrs N allowed her husband (X) to speak for her, and he initially told Santander 
that the money had come from my tenant but on further questioning said it was from his 
wifes colleague who owed her some cash and that it was the repayment of borrowed 
money. Santander asked for proof of Mrs Ns entitlement to the money but X said there was 
no documentary evidence to support that. Santander made the suggestion that the sender of 
the money speak to their bank to clarify the payment. The following day X spoke again with 
Santander and on this occasion said that he had previously thought the money had come 
from his tenant for rent but after taking out a mini statement and considering it with his wife, 
they had no idea where the money had come from. 
Santander was unhappy with the responses it had received and so exercised its right under 
the terms and conditions to close the account. Mrs N was unhappy with Santanders final 
response and so brought the complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. 
Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong. Mrs N 
didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Santander acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Santander has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.Santander is able to choose to end a relationship with any customer, just as a customer can 
choose to close their accounts and bank elsewhere. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
operating for this account and they do allow Santander to close an account immediately and 
without notice in exceptional circumstances. There is no obligation on Santander to give 
reasons for any account closure and it is entitled to rely on the agreement it had with Mrs N. 
Having considered what Santander did here, I think its decision to close the accounts was 
reasonable. It was faced with the sending bank telling it that the funds transferred to Mrs N 
were unauthorised, which is a reasonable starting point for it to consider that a fraudulent 
activity was being attempted. It was then faced with the explanation given by X on behalf of 
his wife, changing over time. Further, the evidence from the bank statement shows that the 
reference on the transfer very closely matched the name given by X when he first spoke to 
Santander as being the colleague who owed him and Mrs N some money. Yet in a call the 
following day Mrs Ns husband claimed he had no knowledge of how or why this payment 
should be there. The difficulty Santander were faced with is that the reference matched the 
name X had given, which strongly indicates that person was therefore known to Mrs N, but 
she and X were not being forthcoming with their explanation. In other words the reference on 
the transfer was linked to a person whom Mrs N and X said they knew.
I must also consider that the sending bank had identified the funds being transferred as 
unauthorised. That being the case, and with X and Mrs N subsequently saying they did not 
know why the funds were there, it follows that it all probability it was some form of fraudulent 
activity. If that is the case then it is difficult to understand how the perpetrator of the 
fraud would be able to get the money out of Mrs Ns account. And as a fact the money was 
not immediately removed from Mrs Ns account which indicated that the perpetrator probably 
had no access to the account in order to allow them to do that. All of this illustrates that 
something was very wrong with the transfer, and in my view it was sufficient, given the lack 
of a credible explanation and indeed a changing explanation, for Santander to have a 
reasonable suspicion of fraud. That allowed them to rely on paragraph 17.3(e) of the terms 
and conditions of the account and affect an immediate closure.
I appreciate that following Mrs Ns complaint to this service she and X have offered further 
explanation, but the relevant point is what was reasonable for Santander to do at the time, 
when it was faced with the facts and evidence it had at that time. For these reasons, 
although I understand Mrs Ns frustration at the accounts being closed, I do not uphold this 
complaint as I cant say Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK 
Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman