DRN-2696855
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited gave him wrong information about the value of his
policy.
In making his complaint, Mr M is represented by Mrs M.
What happened
In 2005, Mr M applied for a life protection plan provided by a predecessor business of 
ReAssure. The plan provided £70,000 of life cover for an initial monthly premium of £49. The
required premium amount has increased each year from 2007.
The policy had a return of premium benefit, which was designed to return a sum of money to
Mr M at a given date, which was in June 2020  the 15th anniversary of him taking out the 
plan.
In 2018, he queried the estimated value of this and ReAssure told him it would be 
£24,606.52. Mr M also contacted ReAssure about this in mid-2019 and in early 2020 and
was told the amount was £29,322.77.
But, when the payment was made to him in 2020, Mr M received £12,409.72.
Mrs M complained on Mr Ms behalf. She said that theyd been told the payment would be
considerably higher. Theyd made plans based on the expectation of receiving this money.
ReAssure apologised and said this had been a mistake as the values showing on its 
systems were incorrect and it shouldnt have quoted these to Mr M. It acknowledged the
inconvenience this had caused him and arranged to pay Mr M a total of £500 to recognise
this.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and suggested that ReAssure should pay
Mr M a further £500, to make a total of £1,000 compensation for the distress and loss of
expectation hed experienced. The investigator said that Mr M had also been caused 
personal embarrassment through having to explain he wouldnt be able to pay for 
arrangements hed made based upon the amount ReAssure had told him he would receive
on more than one occasion.
ReAssure disagreed, as it said the mistake caused a loss of expectation, but Mr M had still
been able to meet his financial obligations. It felt the £500 it had already paid reflected the
nature of the error it had made. It asked for the decision to be reviewed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. In summary, I reached a 
different conclusion to the investigator about the level of compensation for Mr Ms complaint.
I considered the wording of the return of premium benefit in the policy documentation. This 
said that, if the required premiums were paid for the continuous period of 15 years, then the 
customer would receive a refund of all the premiums which you have paid up to that time 
unless at an earlier renewal date you have chosen to waive your return of premium benefit. If 
you stop paying premiums at any earlier date for any reason, then no refund is available. If 
you renew your Cover and pay premiums for a continuous period of longer than 15 years, 
then the premium refund only applies to the premiums paid during the first 15 years.
ReAssure told us that the amount of the premium should be calculated manually rather than 
relying on the value quoted on its system. This is because the system incorrectly uses the 
amount of the last paid premium for the basis of the calculation, rather than the actual 
premiums paid. Mr Ms premium amount had gradually increased each year, so by 2020 he 
was paying a monthly premium of £116.90 compared to £49 in 2005 to 2007.
Mr M made plans based upon the refund amounts hed been told. I said I could understand 
that it will have been significantly upsetting and disappointing to have learned that the right 
amount was less than half of what he expected.
But I also thought about the amount of premiums that Mr M paid over the years for his policy. 
This is what the premium refund was based on. And the incorrect figures he was given were 
significantly more than the total amount hed paid in premiums. The figures were more than 
double what he actually paid.
I said I was mindful that Mr Ms plan was a protection plan rather than an investment. Its 
purpose was to provide him with life cover, but it had an additional benefit that meant his 
premiums would be refunded to him if the plan was maintained for a specific duration. I also 
said I appreciated that Mr M did ask ReAssure on a number of occasions what the amounts 
were and was given higher figures. But, when considering he was expecting a refund of 
premiums hed actually paid, I thought this may have given him cause to question those 
figures when these were so much more.
I said I understood that Mr M made plans and arrangements based upon the incorrect 
information ReAssure gave him. And, of course it will have been upsetting, embarrassing 
and inconvenient to have had to change or cancel these plans. However, from the 
information provided, I understood that this hadnt specifically caused Mr M to suffer a 
financial loss because of any commitments he made. So I said his loss was one of 
expectation. He was expecting to receive more than he did based upon what hed been told 
by ReAssure.
ReAssure apologised for this and offered to pay Mr M £500 as compensation for the upset 
caused. I said appreciated what ReAssure said about the level of awards we may make in 
similar circumstances. And, with this in mind, I said I considered the level of award 
recommended by the investigator would not be commensurate with that.
But I said I must also consider that ReAssure provided Mr M with the incorrect figures on a 
number of occasions both over the telephone and in writing. Each of these was a missed 
opportunity to let him know what the correct amount was likely to be and explain the 
previous errors. It was unfortunate that this didnt happen earlier, particularly as Mr M was 
clearly looking to find out what his likely payment would be.Taking everything into account, I said ReAssure should increase its offer of compensation to 
£750. I thought this represented fair compensation for the particular circumstances, as it 
recognised that ReAssure gave Mr M the incorrect figures a number of times, although it did 
say that these werent guaranteed. But it also recognised that these figures werent an 
accurate representation of the amount of premiums Mr M had actually paid.
The responses
ReAssure responded to say that the level of compensation had been reviewed and it still 
considered the £500 it had offered accurately reflected Mr Ms loss of expectation caused by 
its error.
Mr M responded to say that he had no further information to add but he felt that the distress 
ReAssures error caused him and his family would merit a more generous compensation 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I do appreciate both ReAssures reasoning of why it considers the £500 it offered to be 
fair compensation, and Mr Ms reasoning of why he feels this should be increased.
Ive given careful consideration to all of the circumstances in assessing the level of 
compensation. And, having done this, my findings remain that I feel that an increase to £750 
more fairly recognises the upset and loss of expectation Mr M was caused through 
ReAssures mistake in the figures it gave him for the refund of premiums. As I said in my 
provisional decision, this is because I consider it recognises that ReAssure provided these 
incorrect figures to Mr M several times, both over the phone and in writing; and it also 
recognises that these incorrect figures werent reflective of the actual amount of premiums 
Mr M had paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr M £750 in compensation for his 
loss of expectation on the amount of refund of premiums he would get back from his 
protection plan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman