DRN-3751569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain UK Insurance Limited (UKI) undertook a poor-quality survey to their 
house roof, after they made a claim on their home buildings insurance policy. And that their 
renewal invitation premium was higher than an online quote for a new policy.
References to Mr B or Mrs B, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home buildings insurance policy after they noticed some 
damp patches coming through the ceiling after some bad weather in February. Mr B got a 
roofer to come and look at the roof and they said the roof needed fixing.
Mr B made a claim on his home buildings insurance policy.
UKI organised for a survey to be undertaken by its appointed contractor and a report was 
completed. The report concluded that there was no physical disturbance to the roof covering 
and therefore the damage was not found to be caused by a one-off storm. UKI declined to 
settle the claim.
Mr and Mrs B felt that the inspection that had been carried out by UKI was not as thorough 
as it should have been. They said the surveyor did not look far enough up the roof. So Mr B 
got another roofer to look at the roof after UKI had been and he found two cracked tiles close 
to the roof verge.  
UKI reviewed the information that Mr B submitted from the roofer but did not change its 
decision to decline their claim. It said the damage the roofer had found was down to wear 
and tear and the poor weather had only highlighted the defect in the roof.
Mr and Mrs B were also unhappy with their quote for insurance at the renewal date as it had 
increased. Mr B said he was able to get a cheaper quote by going online. 
As Mr and Mrs B were not happy with UKI, they  brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were 
satisfied the surveyor did all it needed to do and the practices used to investigate the roof 
was common practice and the survey was proportionate. They said they would not expect 
UKIs survey to go to the lengths of lifting tiles and closely inspecting the ridge tiles as 
Mr and Mrs Bs roofer had done. 
As Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim 
I have seen that Mr B said his complaint is not that UKI deem the damage to his roof to be 
wear and tear, but that he still believed UKIs survey came to a conclusion without the 
correct evidence. He said the decision was made to decline his claim without surveying his 
roof in the correct area and the decisions made by the surveyor were made purely on his 
findings on that day. 
I looked at the report produced by UKIs surveyors. This report concludes; there is no 
evidence of storm damage to the property/ roof or its associated materials that is
consistent of that caused by storm or the operation of any other peril, which has been 
highlighted by poor weather conditions.
UKI said it is standard practice to complete a survey from ground level using camera 
equipment on a pole. It accepts that there are some limitations with this type of inspection 
but did not accept it was a poor inspection. It said it had reviewed the area of the roof that 
was adjacent to the internal damage.
I also looked at the images provided by Mr and Mrs Bs builder. I saw that UKI did review this 
information when it was submitted by Mr B and it accepts cracked tiles were found in a 
different area of the roof. However, it said when it considered this evidence the cracked tiles 
had moss on them, and they were not fresh breaks. It said the cement verge was coming 
away from the roofing tiles. It said this damage was also down to wear and tear and it didnt 
change its decision to decline their claim.
I dont consider the inspection was poor, as the techniques used are common practice and it 
is usual to look at the roof in relation to where the internal damage was found. UKI did look 
at, and consider, the claim again after taking in to account the information submitted by 
Mr and Mrs Bs roofer. The images and reports both indicated wear and tear. I do not think 
by highlighting further work to the roof that it would have changed UKIs decision to decline 
the claim. 
After consideration of all this information I agree with UKI that there is no evidence that the 
damage to the roof is consistent with storm damage. I think UKI were correct to decline the 
claim.
I understand that Mr B said if they had listened to the survey undertaken by UKI they could 
have paid for work highlighted by the survey which would not have solved the problem. 
However, when considering this  complaint I cannot take into account something that might 
have happened. I can only consider what happened. 
Therefore I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not require UKI to 
pay them compensation for this part of their complaint.
Policy renewal
When Mr B obtained his renewal for his policy he was unhappy that there had been in 
increase in price. He also went on-line and obtained a quote. There was a small difference in 
prices quoted. Mr B thinks UKI should have offered the best price in the renewal quote. All insurers should be offering its best price for the cover required based on the information 
given by the customer. Insurers consider many factors when determining the price of a 
premium. Each insurer will take its own view on how to underwrite. It will decide what factors 
to take into account and how much weight to put on each of them. The pricing of a premium 
and underwriting factors are commercially sensitive information, and theyre not shared with 
customers. 
Increases may be due to inflation, claim/s etc but if an insurer cant explain an  increase  
we will likely consider this unfair. In this case UKI said the claim made and settled on 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy for the internal damage to their house will have been taken into 
consideration when calculating their renewal premium, as well as the other underwriting 
factors. 
I  looked into the circumstances in this case to see how a difference in price for the renewal 
and the online quote could occur. In this case I have seen that the difference in premium 
price for the renewal invitation was less than £5 different than the online quote for a new 
policy. 
UKI explained that when completing a quote online for a new policy, customers are asked to 
agree to certain assumptions, rather than provide specific information about their claims 
history which is what is used to generate a renewal. And if a customer enters slightly 
different information then this can impact the premium price. 
UKI said the quote sent out for renewal was based on specific information UKI already holds 
for Mr and Mrs B.
I think the explanation around the difference in the renewal of a policy, or a new policy, and 
the use of either assumptions or specifics explains the small difference in price. 
I have seen that Mr B accepted the quote for a new policy, instead of the renewal premium 
quote. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not require UKI to do anything 
further in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman