DRN-3948432
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice that an appointed representative of The On-Line 
Partnership Limited (TOPL) gave to him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was one of TOPLs appointed representatives, rather than TOPL itself, which gave Mr A 
transfer advice. But as TOPL is responsible for responding to the complaint I will only refer to 
it within this decision.
Professional representatives have helped Mr A to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr As.
What happened
In January 2017, after his long-term employer had told Mr A and his colleagues that it would 
be closing down its local business, Mr A approached TOPL to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs. 
TOPL completed a fact-find to establish Mr As circumstances and objectives. Amongst other 
things it noted that Mr A was 53 years old, married with three non-dependent children. He 
intended to continue working until his employer ceased operating locally, scheduled for 
June 2018. He owned his home, with a value in the region of £240,000 on which he had an 
outstanding mortgage of £90,000. He was paying around £450 a month to service a 
mortgage. He had £2,000 in savings. Mr A and his employer were also paying into a 
separate defined contribution scheme (the DC scheme) which was worth £67,200. His 
employer had told Mr A to expect a redundancy payment of £73,465. He was hoping to then 
work part-time and use the £30,000 tax free element of his redundancy payment to 
supplement his income. He estimated hed need around £11,000 a year income after being 
made redundant. TOPL assessed Mr As attitude to risk as balanced.
TOPL gathered information about Mr As DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS). His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £220,842. 
At age 65 it would pay Mr A a full yearly pension of £13,610. TOPL also gave Mr A an 
illustration from a named personal pension provider showing how his fund might perform 
once transferred.
In April 2017 TOPL sent Mr A its suitability report setting out its advice. It recommended that 
Mr A should transfer the funds from his employers DB scheme to a named personal 
pension. It said the growth rate required to match the benefits from the DB fund (the critical 
yield) at age 65 was 9.9%. It said meeting this critical yield was a big task and if it was 
basing its advice on that figure alone a recommendation would not be forthcoming. It said 
that if Mr A remained in the DB scheme and took the benefits from it at age 55 his pension 
would decrease from £10,678.58 to £5,766.48 a year, without Mr A taking TFC. 
TOPL added that, if Mr A transferred the funds from both his DC and DB schemes to a 
personal pension, it could give Mr A a total fund of £248,630, together with a TFC 
entitlement of £82,999. It said Mr A could use the TFC to almost totally repay his mortgage, 
which would be a massive relief for Mr A and his wife. It also said that if Mr A took income 
at a rate of 4% pa (not guaranteed), based on the total pension monies, this will provide 
income of £9,945.20 pa gross of income tax. It added that, if Mr As investment return met a 
4% a year growth assumption then the value of the fund may not reduce.
TOPL said Mr As objectives, in terms of his DB funds, were:
To transfer the monies to a pension plan to improve the death benefits.
To withdraw the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) at age 55, and not have to take an 
income at the same time.
To have flexible access to his pension in the future.
To have control over how his pension was invested. 
Mr A accepted TOPLs advice and the DB funds were transferred to the named personal 
pension. The following year Mr A transferred the funds from his DC scheme to the same 
personal pension.
Mr A complained to TOPL in 2022. In brief he said that its advice to transfer his DB funds 
wasnt suitable for him. TOPL replied. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Amongst other 
things it said that the main rationale for the transfer was to address Mr As financial 
hardship; so it said the advice was suitable for him.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She upheld the 
complaint and recommended that TOPL should calculate if Mr A had suffered a financial loss 
and if so pay him compensation. TOPL initially agreed to calculate whether or not Mr A had 
suffered a loss. But, it then told us that it didnt necessarily agree with our investigators 
assessment. It said it would make a decision on whether or not to pay compensation once it 
had done that calculation. As TOPL hasn't agreed to our investigators recommendation 
the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint both Mr A and TOPL have made a number of points. But in this 
decision I dont intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I 
see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr As complaint and the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr A has also complained about TOPLs later advice to transfer his DC scheme funds to a 
named personal pension. But, we are looking at that complaint under a separate reference 
number. So I dont intend to comment on the merits of that advice within this decision.
When looking at this complaint Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) 
and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TOPL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TOPL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr As best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Financial viability 
TOPL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
Mr A was 53 years old at the time of the advice. He was being made redundant and said he 
wanted to find part-time work. His DB schemes normal retirement age was 65. The critical 
yield required to match Mr As benefits at 65 was 9.9% if he took a full pension. This 
compares with the discount rate of 3.9% per year for 11 full years to retirement. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr A 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 9.9%, I 
think Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Indeed 
TOPL has argued that by transferring Mr A could achieve his other objectives. So Ive 
considered this below. When doing so I've been mindful that TOPLs role was to find out 
what Mr As wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what he wanted 
without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its 
recommendation was in his best interests.
Flexibility and income needs
TOPLs said transferring allowed Mr A to take maximum TFC at age 55, which would also 
allow him to pay off the majority of his mortgage. But at the time TOPL gave its advice, Mr A 
was 53 and he couldn't access his pension benefits, whether they were transferred or not, 
until he was 55 years old. So he had no need to transfer his DB benefits immediately in 
order to have access to them in two years time. 
Further, Mr A had no concrete plans for what he would do after being made redundant. And 
his tentative plans were to keep on working, although he thought that would more than likely 
be on a part-time basis. So, Mr A didnt have any actual need  at the time of the advice  to 
access his pension benefits, as he couldnt be certain what his income levels would be once 
he turned 55. So there was no compelling reason to advise Mr A to give up the guaranteed 
income from his DB scheme. As he didnt know at that point whether hed need that income 
or not in another two years.
Also I think the figures that TOPL gave to Mr A in its suitability report were somewhat 
misleading. TOPL had noted that if Mr A took 4% of his pension benefits (once both funds 
were transferred and setting aside his TFC sums) from a total fund of £248,630 he could 
have an income of £9,945.20 a year. And it implied that based on an assumed growth rate of 
4%, then he could take that income without his fund reducing. In other words, he would only 
use the funds generated by investment growth to live off. But TOPLs comments dont allow 
for the effects of pension fund charges or inflation. 
When calculating critical yields, actuaries factor in the effect of pension plan charges on the 
overall growth rate. In this case, although TOPL recommended a transfer on the basis that 
Mr A could begin to take income from his pension at age 55, it didnt calculate a critical yield 
for that age. Its not my role to calculate critical yields. So I cant be certain what the actual 
growth rate required would be to match the DB scheme if Mr A had decided to take the 
benefits from his DB fund at age 55.
But, what I do know, is that TOPL was charging Mr A 2% of his DB fund value (after 
deducting TFC) amounting to around £3,312 for its initial transfer advice. It would also 
charge Mr A 0.5% of the fund value each year for ongoing advice. And the personal pension 
provider also applied charges of 1.05% a year. So those fees would reduce the actual 
growth rate by 1.55% a year. So (without deducting the initial adviser fee) based on TOPLs 
assumptions, the charges would reduce the actual growth from 4% to 2.45%, which, on a 
fund value of £248,630 would be around £6,091 not £9,945. So, if Mr A withdrew £9,945 
from his fund, after applying charges, his fund would actually have gone down by (£9.945 - 
£6,097) £3,854. And that is without factoring in the effects of inflation. I note that TOPLs 
suitability report did refer to the charges that would apply. But the report was 35 pages long 
and it didnt mention the charges when saying that Mr A could take almost £10,000 a year 
from his pension once transferred. So it's not the case that if Mr As fund grew at 4% a year 
he could live off the 4% growth sum without depleting the fund. It follows that I don't think 
TOPL presented these figures fully and fairly.TOPL did point out some of the risks involved with investments and said that growth wasnt 
guaranteed in a personal pension. But I think its worth pointing out that in order to have 
flexible access to his pension funds, Mr A would be placing the security of his income in 
retirement at risk as it would then depend on the volatilities of the investment markets. And, 
if there was a market crash, or a sustained period of poor performance, then his fund could 
grow at a slower than anticipated rate, or even suffer losses. And that would compromise his 
income in retirement. In contrast his DB funds were guaranteed and index linked to protect 
against the effects of inflation. Thats not something I think was worthwhile giving up for 
flexible access to his money.
Moreover, TOPL said in its suitability report that Mr A transferring his DB fund would allow 
him to pay off the majority of his mortgage and said this would come as a massive relief to 
him. Mr As told us that he had no desire to pay off his mortgage and, in fact, he still hasn't 
done so. Obviously I wasnt there when TOPL and Mr A discussed this, so I can't know for 
certain what was discussed. But I've noted that TOPL referred to Mr As desire to pay off his 
mortgage in its fact-find. And it similarly referred to it in its suitability report. So, I think its 
more likely than not that it was discussed at some point, even if Mr A believes that TOPL has 
put too much emphasis on it. However, I think its reasonable to conclude that TOPL was of 
the opinion that Mr A felt paying off his mortgage was a key goal for him. But, as I've said 
above, at the time of the advice Mr A wouldnt be able to access his TFC to pay off the 
mortgage for at least two years. So, he had no need to transfer his DB benefits when he did.
Also, assuming Mr A was planning to pay off his mortgage early, he had no need to transfer 
his DB benefits in order to do so. Mr A knew he would receive a redundancy payment of 
around £73,500. And while he intended to use £30,000 of that as living expenses, he 
intended paying the other £43,500 into his DC scheme, which would have taken the fund 
value to around £110,000. So, if he was insistent on paying off his mortgage then he could 
have used the DC scheme to do that, while leaving the guaranteed benefits from his DB 
scheme safeguarded. But theres little evidence that TOPL put that to him.
Alternatively, Mr A could have accessed his DB fund from age 55. TOPL did point this out to 
Mr A and it said that his pension would be reduced from £10,678.55 a year to £5,766.48. In 
fact the figures TOPL quoted were Mr As DB entitlements in 2017 and, as he couldnt take 
his benefits until 2019 at the earliest, then when adding the scheme indexation for the 
intervening two years, those figures would likely have increased to around £11,200 and 
£6,050. TOPL referred to this reduction for taking his DB benefits early as being a penalty. 
Whereas TOPL sold the possibility of Mr A taking money from a personal pension before his 
normal retirement age as a flexible benefit of transferring. But, the penalty that TOPL 
referred to was in fact nothing more sinister than actuarial adjustments. Those adjustments 
reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its likely that the pot to pay for that pension will have 
to last longer. As such the actuaries calculate a reduction in the yearly pension to allow for 
the fact that the pensioner will claim the pension  most likely  for a longer period. Thats 
not a penalty for taking the pension early, its simply an adjustment for having the benefits 
of that pension over a longer period. 
Mr A could have chosen to take money from his new personal pension from age 55 without a 
penalty. But any such deduction would reduce the remaining pension pot and also 
decrease the amount the fund would grow by. So drawing down funds from an earlier date 
would in effect either lessen: the amounts he could take as income; the time frame he would 
have funds available; or  as I explain below  the remaining funds available as a death 
benefit. As a result, taking money from his personal pension early could have a more 
significant effect on Mr As income in retirement than taking benefits from the DB scheme.
Also, while benefits taken early from the DB scheme would be reduced, the advantage to 
Mr A of that strategy would have been that he could then have continued to receive guaranteed and index linked increases in his DB pension for the remainder of his life. He 
could then have topped that income up, either from part-time work if he went down that route 
or by drawing income from his DC pension in the flexible manner he desired. And that could 
have allowed him to meet his income requirements and to keep paying off his mortgage at 
the same time. That would have removed the necessity to take large sums from his pension 
fund in order to repay the mortgage early. 
But TOPLs suitability report doesn't provide an analysis of the merits of Mr A taking benefits 
from his DB scheme at 55, while also taking income from his DC scheme. And in order to 
allow him to make a fully informed decision this was something that I think TOPL should 
have explored I detail. It follows that I dont think TOPL gave Mr A all the information he 
needed. And I dont think transferring his funds in order to repay his mortgage early, when 
there may not have been any need for that, was a worthwhile reason to advise him to give 
up the benefits of his DB scheme for. 
That said, its true to say that Mr A couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take his DB 
funds early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same 
time as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would 
allow Mr A to draw down funds as he saw fit, once hed turned 55. Its also the case that 
Mr A could have taken 25% of his entire personal pension fund as TFC. But the DB scheme 
has stricter rules about how much can be taken as a lump sum. So I can see why a higher 
lump sum and more choice over how much to take and when might have been an attractive 
prospect for Mr A. But, as I've said above if he did need flexible access to funds, he could 
have arranged to take those from his DC pension while still having a guaranteed income 
from his DB scheme. And TOPL should have made the advantages of that clear to Mr A. But 
it didnt do so. 
I understand that the option of drawing all his pension income flexibly might seem like 
something that would be nice to have. But, I can't see that Mr A had any genuine need for 
that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for. So I dont think it was in 
his best interests to transfer to achieve that. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely to have been an attractive feature to Mr A. Thats 
because whatever was left within his personal pension at the date of his death would be 
passed on to his family. And, if that happened before his retirement or soon after then that 
would likely be a significant sum. 
In contrast the DB scheme would pay Mr As wife half of his yearly pension after he died. 
And that pension would die with her, so Mr A couldnt leave it as a legacy for his adult 
children. But, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here for TOPL was to advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement 
provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum 
to family after death. But in transferring out of the DB scheme Mr A was essentially giving up 
a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not need for many years to come.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. While 
the pension for Mr As wife would be set at 50% of his own DB entitlement, that pension 
would be payable until her death. And I dont think TOPL made the value of these death benefits clear enough to Mr A when compared to those available from a personal pension. 
Not only were they guaranteed and escalated but they were not dependent on investment 
performance or how much was left in the pot, whereas the sum available to Mr As family on 
his death in a personal pension was.
Given the size of the CETV I can understand that Mr A might have thought that guaranteed a 
significant lump sum for his family on his death. But, the available fund was reliant on a 
number of factors, including investment growth. And, as I've pointed out above, a period of 
poor performance or losses, could reduce the sum available as a death benefit. Also, the 
fund would reduce as Mr A drew down money from it. So if he took higher sums from it in the 
early years of his retirement  for example to repay a mortgage  then that could significantly 
reduce the amounts available to live off, let alone to leave as a legacy for his family on his 
death.
If Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns, I think TOPL could have explored life insurance with him. I understand that such 
cover can be expensive. But if he didnt want to pay a significant premium then TOPLs 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr A how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
family. It could then have looked into cover for that sum to find something affordable that met 
his needs. But theres no evidence it did that.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And I think TOPL should 
have made this clear to him.
Control
TOPL said that by transferring from the DB scheme Mr A would gain control over how it was 
invested. But, he wasnt an experienced investor. So I doubt that he had any genuine desire 
to start taking control over the investment decisions concerning his pension fund. And it's 
notable that the fund TOPL recommended Mr A invest in, within the personal pension, was 
controlled and managed by the fund itself. Also, Mr A would be paying TOPL an ongoing 
service fee, of 0.5% of his fund value, to give him investment advice. So, in practice, he 
would be delegating control of the investment decisions to financial professionals. It follows 
that I dont think investment control was a genuine objective for Mr A  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But TOPL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
TOPL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr A about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr As DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And 
ultimately, I dont think the advice TOPL gave to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income from his DB scheme. By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr A was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr As best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for TOPLs advice. And, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he 
would have done so. Thats because he was an inexperienced investor and his DB pension 
accounted for a significant portion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if TOPL had 
given him clear advice against transferring his safeguarded benefits, explaining why it wasnt 
in his best interests and that he would likely be worse off as a result of doing so, I think he 
would have accepted that advice. 
It follows that I don't think TOPLs advice to Mr A to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. And I think it should have advised him to stay in his DB scheme. So, I think 
TOPL should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for TOPL to put Mr A, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if TOPL had given suitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr A whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for the new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr A.
For clarity, I understand that Mr A retired prior to his 55th birthday. So, this should be the 
basis for TOPLs compensation calculation.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
If it feels it is required TOPL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr As contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mr As SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect TOPL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, TOPL should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr As pension plan. I'm aware that Mr A would prefer TOPL to make a lump 
sum payment directly to him. But in order to put him as near as possible into the position he 
otherwise would have been in, unless it's not able to do so, I think its fair that TOPL should 
pay the compensation into Mr As pension fund. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
TOPL should pay it directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date TOPL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further TOPL must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TOPL to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
TOPL should provide details of its calculations to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The On-Line 
Partnership Limited to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
The On-Line Partnership Limited to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require The On-
Line Partnership Limited to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
The On-Line Partnership Limited pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The On-Line 
Partnership Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman