DRN-3484236
The complaint
A charity which Ill refer to as A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
caused it inconvenience as the bank gave it incorrect information about the account 
mandate.
The complaint is brought on As behalf by its representative, Mr C.
What happened
Mr C told us:
A tried to update its account mandate in March 2020. This had previously been done 
using a paper form but was now done online which took more time. 
The mandate change request was submitted in May 2020, but it wasnt accepted 
initially as NatWest said A needed two existing signatories to sign the form  not just 
Mr C. The bank eventually updated the mandate with the new trustees in June 2020.
A had tried to pay £5,000 to a third party in August 2020. A was aware it didnt have 
enough money in the account the payment to be made from, so it asked NatWest to 
transfer money from another of its accounts to make up the balance first. The bank 
didnt do this which meant the payment bounced and A was caused reputational 
damage. 
NatWest said any transfer requests needed to be signed by all As authorised 
signatories  but this was incorrect. The bank then said a further request couldnt be 
processed as two of the signatories hadnt signed the request  however these 
signatories had both been deceased for a significant period.
A told NatWest the only authorised signatories on its account, should be those 
included in the mandate update of May 2020. A also wanted to know why the bank 
didnt ask if these two deceased signatories should be removed, when it had updated 
its mandate in 2014 to remove other deceased signatories. 
A hadnt used its account for several months and been unable to function as a charity 
as the signatories hadnt been updated. And, in line with the information it was given 
by NatWest, it believed it couldnt make payments without all signatories being party 
to the payments  some of whom were deceased. 
NatWest told us:
It accepted it had caused A inconvenience by delaying the transfer of funds between 
As accounts so it couldnt make the £5,000 payment to the third party.
It also accepted there had been a delay in removing the deceased signatories from 
As mandate.
It had apologised for the errors, refunded the fees that A had incurred from the 
bounced third-party payment, and offered £500 for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed that NatWest had 
made mistakes, however she thought A had made attempted the account transfer with just 
one signatory which wasnt in line with the agreed mandate. She also thought it was fair for 
NatWest to use online applications only for some of its processes, as this was within the 
banks commercial discretion. The investigator also thought it was reasonable that NatWest 
hadnt removed all the deceased signatories in 2014, as A hadnt completed the section on 
the relevant form asking it to do so.
 
A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into its complaint. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
A says that NatWest took too long to update the mandate change in May 2020, but Im not 
persuaded thats the case. I say that because I can see that mandate form was only signed 
by Mr C as an authorised signatory, rather than the two signatories that the form required. 
Mr C has explained that the reason for this was that A only had two authorised signatories at 
the time of the request, and one of these was being removed as part of the mandate 
request. Mr C also says that previously he just went into the branch and the staff could help 
him with any changes and the process was easier. 
I understand that A previously completed paper-based applications which meant it was 
easier for the charity to gather the relevant information in person. However, I dont think its 
unreasonable for NatWest to change this to an online process which is generally likely to be 
quicker and more accessible to the banks customers. Ultimately, this is a commercial 
decision that NatWest is able to make, and I dont think its dissimilar to other banks who 
have also reduced their paper-based processes. 
Whilst I acknowledge that As circumstances meant only one authorised signatory was 
available, I cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for a delay which was caused by a 
change to As signatories which meant it wasnt able to comply with the mandate 
requirements. I can see that NatWest did update the mandate as requested in June once it 
had received further information from A in mid-May. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr C says that NatWest should also have removed all of the deceased signatories from As 
account in 2014 when it submitted a mandate request, and that it shouldnt be responsible 
for updating the banks records. But I dont agree. Ive looked at the mandate form 
completed by A in 2014, and I can see that on page two under the section removing an 
authorised signatory there were two options, option one was to remove all existing 
authorised signatories and option two, which was the one ticked by A, was to remove 
specific named signatories. So I think it was reasonable that NatWest followed As 
instruction and only removed the signatories it was asked to.
Mr C told us that A was treated unreasonably and caused reputational damage when it 
attempted to make a payment to a third-party for £5,000 which subsequently bounced. Its 
not in dispute by either party that A was caused inconvenience when the third-party payment 
wasnt paid as expected. But I can see that NatWest has apologised and provided 
confirmation of its mistake that A can use as needed. And that the bank has also refunded 
the fees that both A and the third-party incurred because of this. So I think the bank has taken reasonable steps to put things right.
Looking at evidence, it appears that when A submitted the internal account transfer request, 
it wasnt signed in accordance with the mandate, as it was only signed by Mr C not two 
authorised signatories. I acknowledge that A had submitted a request at the same time as 
the transfer request asking that only one signatory be required to authorise the transfer. 
However, NatWests process requires two signatories, and doesnt have an option for this to 
change as requested by customers. So I think it was reasonable that the bank didnt make 
the transfer at this time and I cant fairly hold it fully responsible for the payment not being 
made initially.
However, Ive also seen that after the payment bounced initially, that A was given incorrect 
information by NatWest to say that all authorised signatories had to sign the requests  
which included those signatories who were deceased  rather than because two authorised 
signatories were required. Mr C told us that because if this incorrect information, A didnt use 
its account for several months or attempt to make the transfer again, so it didnt think the 
£500 compensation offered by the bank was enough. 
Its clear that A was caused inconvenience by NatWest from the incorrect information it was 
given. However, Mr C has confirmed that A didnt need to use its account between 
September 2020 and January 2021, when the bank confirmed that the issues had been 
resolved. So based on what Ive seen from both parties, I think the offer of £500 
compensation, with the already refunded fees for A and the third-party for the bounced 
payment and the letter explaining the banks error is enough to put things right. So I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything more. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay A £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman