DRN-3869681
The complaint
Mrs D complains Santander UK Plc persistently failed to provide a P60 for tax purposes 
unless she signs up for their online banking service. 
What happened
Mrs D holds an account with Santander which benefits from receiving interest. She believes 
its a legal requirement to obtain a P60 from Santander to evidence interest received to 
assist her in completing her personal annual tax return.
Mrs D says Santander wont provide this document unless she signs up for their online 
banking service. But Mrs D doesnt want to do that for personal reasons. In 2021, Mrs D 
says she was told by Santander a note had been placed on her account to ensure this would 
automatically be posted to her each year. Despite this, the document wasnt received, so 
she complained.
Santander responded to Mrs Ds complaint in May 2022 and didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong. They said an account summary document is automatically sent to 
customers who are registered for online banking during April and May of each year. Where 
not registered, Mrs D would need to contact them to request a paper version is sent out in 
the post. They included a paper copy of Mrs Ds account summary document with their 
response.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs D referred her complaint to this service. She 
wanted an assurance that Santander would send her a P60 as soon as possible each year 
without having to specifically request one.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs D should be disadvantaged by having to contact Santander 
each year to request a paper document. She thought Santander should automatically send it 
to Mrs D. She also thought Santander should pay compensation of £50 to reflect the 
inconvenience shed experienced.
Santander couldnt find any record of Mrs D contacting them in 2021 and said they couldnt 
commit to automatically sending a paper document to her. But they did agree to pay 
compensation of £50 for the inconvenience shed experienced.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ds complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further. In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2022  giving both Mrs D and Santander the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mrs D has referred to a legal requirement to obtain a P60 to evidence interest shes received 
from Santander. A P60 is an HM Customs and Revenue (HMRC) form which show tax 
deducted from an individuals salary or pension income. They are not issued to show interest 
received.
Mrs D needs something to evidence the interest shes received so that she can include this 
on her annual tax return. Prior to 6 April 2016, all banks and building societies automatically 
deducted income tax from any interest received by an individual on non-ISA savings and 
current accounts unless the individual was registered to receive interest gross. Up to that 
point, a bank could issue a Section 975 (S975) certificate showing tax deducted, if 
requested. 
Since 6 April 2016, banks and buildings societies have been paying interest without income 
tax deducted. So, S975 certificates are no longer required. But where an individual 
completes a self-assessment tax return, they may need to include details of interest 
received. 
Details of interest Mrs D received from Santander is included on her regular bank 
statements. However, Santander elected to prepare an annual account summary each year 
including details of the total interest received during that period. Its important to 
acknowledge this isnt a regulatory requirement. Its a service Santander voluntarily offer.
Santanders policy and process is that this document is made available electronically 
through their online banking service. A paper copy isnt automatically produced and posted 
to their customers. And theres no provision for this to be automatically provided in paper 
form.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs Ds experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
As Ive already mentioned, details of the interest Mrs D received is included on her regular 
account statements. So, as Santander have already provided that information, I cant 
reasonably insist they provide it again in another form. But Santander voluntarily provide an 
annual account summary, albeit in paperless format. This is convenient for many of their 
customers. But Mrs D doesnt wish to use Santanders online service, so doesnt benefit 
from that convenience. While I accept this, I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for 
Mrs Ds choice here.
We're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience 
a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with financial businesses. 
But for me to make an award, I would need to be persuaded that Santander had done 
something wrong which resulted in an inconvenience more than someone would expect to 
experience in everyday life. I realise Mrs D will be disappointed; but I havent found anything 
to suggest Santander did anything wrong by not automatically sending her a paper account 
summary each year.
Mrs D says Santander agreed in 2021 to ensure she was automatically sent a paper account 
summary each year. And while Santander havent been able to find any evidence of that 
commitment, theyve said Mrs B shouldnt have been told that. Based upon our investigators 
findings, Santander agreed to pay Mrs D compensation of £50. And as it seems there may 
have been a lack of clarity here, for this reason, I will support that award.
Going forward, Santander have suggested a solution for Mrs D. Theyve provided a 
freephone number for her to call and request a paper document each year. She can also call 
in to a branch to make the request. And I think thats a reasonable response here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Santander have confirmed theyve nothing further to add to my provisional findings. Theyve 
confirmed that if Mrs D accepts the decision, theyd be happy to pay the £50 compensation 
proposed.
Mrs D confirmed shed nothing further to add. She did say she hadnt been provided with a 
specific telephone number to call other than Santanders usual published number. I 
understand Santanders telephone customer service team are normally able to order an 
annual account summary to be sent out to her in the post, upon request. 
So, in the absence of any further information or arguments to consider, Ive no reason to 
vary from the findings in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay compensation of £50 to Mrs D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman