DRN-4307787
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited, in 
relation to a home emergency insurance policy she held with it. 
What happened
Miss G had a homecare four home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. The policy 
provided cover for various issues  such as repairs to the plumbing system at the property. 
Miss G has said that she needed to use the policy on several occasions for emergency 
repairs needed at her property, throughout 2002. But that when using the policy, the service 
she was provided with was poor.
Miss G referred to a few events when talking about the service provided to her.
Firstly, Miss G said a British Gas contractor attended her property to carry out some work on 
a kitchen tap. But whilst conducting the work, they caused a leak in the kitchen. In addition to 
this, Miss G said the contractor turned off the water going to the washing machine  which 
then caused problems with the appliance when she tried to use it. Miss G said she then had 
to ensure that British Gas fixed the washing machine.
Another incident Miss G referred to was in relation to her bathroom. She said that a 
contactor attended to deal with a leak in the bathroom. But the contractor left the property 
with a leak still being present. Miss G said she tried to seek assistance from British Gas in 
relation to this but was initially told she should stem the flow of water with towels. Miss G 
noted said this was poor advice, and caused her to suffer significant injury, given she 
already medical conditions, such as spinal problems. Miss G said the injury this incident 
caused her has led to her still needing to use crutches now.
In addition to this, Miss G said the contractor dealing with the bathroom caused damage to a 
bathroom mirror. As well as carried out repair work to the sealant around the bath poorly  
meaning a number of visits were needed to put the issues right.
As Miss G was unhappy with the service she received from British Gas, she raised a 
complaint with it. British Gas looked into this and provided a response.
British Gas accepted that some workmanship it completed had been poor. And it also 
acknowledged that it has caused damage to the bathroom mirror at Miss Gs property. It 
confirmed these issues had been resolved. But offered Miss G £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she had experienced due to the above. 
British Gas also recognised that Miss G had alleged that she had been physically injured 
due to its actions. In response to this, British Gas said Miss G would need to contact British 
Gas insurer and provided the details for Miss G to do this.
Miss G remained dissatisfied with British Gas response and didnt consider the £250 
compensation offered to be sufficient. So, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think this case should be upheld. They 
thought that British Gas has acted reasonably by putting right the unsatisfactory work and 
replacing the mirror. And they considered the £250 fair and reasonable to recognise the 
trouble and upset caused to Miss G by the poor work and damage. 
Miss G didnt agree. Because of this, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint and requiring British Gas to pay 
Miss G £400 compensation in total. Ive explained the reasons for my intended decision 
below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether British 
Gas acted in line with these requirements when it handled Miss Gs claims. 
Ive also reviewed Miss Gs policy documents, to see what cover the policy provided. On 
doing so, I can see policy provided for repairs to several areas of the property  including 
plumbing, boilers, central heating and drains. A repair meaning that British Gas would fix the 
relevant boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or breakdown. Ive referred 
to additional relevant terms in policy, where relevant, in the sections below.
Kitchen tap
Miss G has said that British Gas attended to deal with a tap in the kitchen and caused a leak 
whilst carrying out work on it. 
Miss Gs policy does provide cover for plumbing repairs. But British Gas has provided a 
different version of events. It said it didnt attend Miss Gs property  at least not in its 
capacity as home emergency insurer  to deal with any work to a kitchen tap.
Ive requested information from British Gas in relation to visits to Miss Gs home to 
understand what happened here. And Ive seen notes from various visits to Miss Gs 
property. But I havent seen anything that suggests there was a visit under this policy to 
complete work to a kitchen tap. I also havent seen any firm evidence from Miss G showing 
this was the case either. 
Given the lack of firm evidence here, I dont think its reasonable for me to say that British 
Gas, as home emergency insurer, attended and caused any leak in the kitchen at Miss Gs 
home. If Miss G does have firm evidence of this, she should provide this to me to consider, 
alongside any evidence that this caused damage to her kitchen.
Given this, I dont intend on making an award in relation to this element of the complaint.
Washing machine
Miss G said that whilst British Gas attended for the kitchen tap it turned a value off which 
supplied water to the washing machine and didnt turn it back on. Miss G said this meant that 
when she went to use her washing machine it didnt work, and an error code came up on the 
appliance. Given this, Miss G said British Gas had to attend on several occasions to remedy 
the problem. As I havent found British Gas, acting as Miss Gs insurer, attended to work on the kitchen 
tap, it follows that I dont find that it turned a valve off and caused damage to the washing 
machine during this visit. 
But Ive looked at Miss Gs policy anyway, to see if it provides any cover for Miss Gs 
appliance. And having done so, I can see Miss G doesnt have any cover for the washing 
machine itself. 
She does however have cover for the pipework and plumbing supplying the washing 
machine  if its had an individual fault or breakdown. 
Ive seen British Gas appointment log in relation to the washing machine. And I can see that 
it attended on 23 May 2022 and discovered a value was off. British Gas also attended the 
following day and repaired a valve to the washing machine. As these areas of plumbing were 
covered under Miss Gs policy, I think British Gas acted fairly in attending and remedying 
these problems. 
I can also see that Miss G let British Gas know, on 31 May 2022, that the washing machine 
programme had a problem  with an error code being displayed on the machine. As above, 
Miss Gs policy didnt cover her for this problem, as it didnt cover the appliance itself. And I 
havent seen British Gas caused the error code. But British Gas did repair the issue with the 
programme for Miss G anyway, outside of the policy terms. So, Im satisfied British Gas did 
more than it needed to here. So, I dont make any award in this respect. 
Bathroom leak
Ive again considered the information provided by both parties, on the visits to Miss Gs 
property  including those to attend to the bathroom. 
On doing so, Im aware there were several times that British Gas visited to repair plumbing in 
the bathroom, under the policy terms. I can see it attended in February 2022 and changed a 
mixer tap in the bathroom. And in March 2022 it fixed a leak from a segment of pipe 
underneath the bath. There appears to have been an additional visit in May 2022, for a tap. 
And another visit in July 2022. But I havent seen anything to suggest these visits were for 
the same issue. Instead, they look to be for different issues each time. So, Im not satisfied 
British Gas did anything wrong here. It attended each incident to resolve it.
However, Im aware that it attended in August 2022, and repaired a hot water feed. But when 
attending again in December 2022 the job notes say the previous contractor that had 
attended hadnt investigated the problem properly and had completed a poor repair. So, this 
contractor replaced pipes and flexis for both the hot and cold water.
 
Based on these comments, I think its probable that the repair in August 2022 wasnt 
completed to the correct standard. I havent seen that between August 2022 and December 
2022 this effected the rest of the bathroom in any way. But I can appreciate how it would 
have been distressing for Miss G to realise that the repair wasnt carried out as it should 
have been. And I recognise it would have been inconvenient for Miss G to need an engineer 
to attend again in December, to fix things properly.
Ive therefore also considered this issue when deciding what a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint is. Ive provided details of that later in the decision.
Damage to mirrorBoth parties accept that when British Gas attended Miss Gs property in August 2022, British 
Gas mistakenly damaged Miss Gs bathroom mirror. And British Gas accepts this shouldnt 
have happened. So, it looked to put right the problem.
I agree putting right this damage was fair. Whilst the policy doesnt cover this sort of 
damage, British Gas caused the problem while carrying out insured work. So, Id expect it to 
make sure Miss G was put back in the position she was in before the mistake happened  
this being with the undamaged mirror being returned to the bathroom.
But Im aware that putting right this problem took four months to resolve, with Miss G 
needing to alert British Gas to further problems, and her needing to accommodate additional 
visits to her home.
The contact notes provided by British Gas, as well as the information it has supplied on the 
visits to Miss Gs address, show that the first time it attended to replace the bathroom mirror 
on 25 August 2022, it came to light the wrong size mirror had been ordered and so the work 
couldnt go ahead.
And the second time British Gas came to remedy the problem it then fitted a mirror with a 
crack in it, leaving Miss G needing to contact British Gas again, to highlight a further problem 
and ask for a third attempt to resolve the problem. 
I can see how the need to accommodate visits, and raise further problems with British Gas 
would have been upsetting and inconvenient for Miss G. Further to this, Im aware that 
British Gas sought to provide Miss G with a cash settlement, to get the repair sorted herself. 
But given Miss Gs particular circumstances I can understand why this wasnt helpful for her.
It wasnt until December 2022 that Miss G had a replacement mirror, with no damage to it, in 
place.
Given the inconvenience experienced here, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
compensation to be provided to Miss G. Ive again provided details on this later in this 
decision.
Sealant 
British Gas has said that in August 2022 it let Miss G know that the sealant around her bath 
needed fixing. But, explained to her that this wasnt something covered under her policy.
Ive looked at Miss Gs policy in relation to this. And I can see that repairing sealant isnt 
covered. 
Under the plumbing section of the policy, under whats not covered the following is detailed:
Showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa baths, seals and grouting.
Given this, Im satisfied that British Gas was under no obligation to carry out any repairs to 
the sealant  the policy doesnt provide for this. And this is common in policies of this nature.
But, British Gas did later agree to do this for Miss G anyway. Given this wasnt covered 
British Gas did more than it needed to here. However, as it accepted it would complete work 
to this area, Id expect the work to be done to a reasonable standard.
British Gas accepts that the work carried out to fix the sealant was poor. And it remedied this 
by getting a contractor out to sort the problem  after initially looking to provide Miss G with a 
cash settlement to sort this. But I can see this took from 21 September 2022 when the work 
was carried out, to December 2022 when another contractor came and resolved the issue. I 
think it would have been reasonable to resolve this issue more efficiently  three months is a 
long time for Miss G to need to wait for this to be resolved. And I can also see how this 
would have been troubling for her.Compensation 
Given the above problems noted with the bathroom repairs, the damaged mirror and the 
sealant caused by British Gas, Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint would be.
British Gas has offered Miss G £250 compensation  which she hasnt accepted. So, Ive 
thought about whether I think this was fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and 
upset Miss G experienced. Having done so, I dont think £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. I think this should be increased, so the total compensation paid to Miss G is 
£400. 
I say this because Miss G had to contact Miss G again for a bathroom repair, which it 
appears was completed incorrectly in August 2022. And she had to accommodate another 
visit, some four months later as a result. She also had a period of four months during which 
she needed to raise concerns about a damaged mirror and poor sealant repairs before it 
was fixed, with multiple visits needed to resolve these issues. This meant an extended 
period of time which inconvenienced Miss G. And it would have been worrying for her, 
waiting for these issues to be resolved. Im satisfied that £400 more fairly reflects the level of 
upset and inconvenience Miss G has experienced during this extended period of time.
I understand that Miss G wanted British Gas to replace the pipework under her bath. British 
Gas didnt agree to that. I think British Gas acted fairly in that respect  work to simply 
upgrade the pipework isnt covered by Miss Gs policy. So, Im not requiring it to do this.
Personal injury 
Miss G has said that British Gas left a leak at her property, after fixing her bathroom taps. 
And has said that the advice she was given to stem the leak with towels caused her spinal 
injuries which are still occurring.
British Gas doesnt accept this allegation. It said it couldnt find any record of telling Miss G 
this. But it responded to Miss Gs concerns, letting her know she could contact its insurer 
about the issue, and British Gas provided Miss G with the relevant contact details. British 
Gas said when doing so, Miss G should provide its insurer with details of the injury and 
information to evidence her allegation. 
I think this was a fair thing for British Gas to do. By doing so, I think its clear that British Gas 
took the allegation seriously. And I think it was reasonable for it to provide Miss G with 
details about how she could pursue this issue if she wanted to do so. 
I understand Miss G may want me to comment on the personal injury she has alleged was 
caused by British Gas. But that isnt something Im going to do. As above, Im satisfied 
British Gas did the fair thing when it learnt of Miss Gs allegation  and it would be for Miss G 
to now proceed with the course of action British Gas provided her with.
Miss G let us know she didnt agree with the provisional decision. But didnt provide any 
further comments or evidence in relation to this. British Gas also didnt agree. It said it didnt 
feel the additional compensation I intended to award was justified. And it said that the 
provisional decision was incorrect in saying the bathroom mirror wasnt replaced until 
December 2022  it had in fact been replaced in September 2022.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, and require British Gas to pay Miss G 
£400 compensation in total.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, that alters my 
findings on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as 
that in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
But its important to comment on the point that British Gas raises in response to the 
provisional decision. British Gas has said that its incorrect to say the bathroom mirror wasnt 
replaced until December 2022. But I remain satisfied with the information detailed within my 
provisional decision in this regard. 
I acknowledge that a replacement bathroom mirror was provided prior to December 2022. 
But, as noted in my provisional decision, the replacement mirror provided had a crack in it. It 
wasnt until December 2022 that Miss G had a replacement mirror, with no damage to it, in 
place. This meant it took from August 2022 to December 2022 for Miss G to be put in the 
position she was in before the mirror was mistakenly broken by British Gas  this being 
having bathroom mirror which wasnt cracked. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I considered £400 to be reasonable. As there has 
been no evidence which alters the chain of events as described in my provisional decision, 
or the impact I consider this had on Miss G, I do remain of the opinion £400 compensation is 
fair in this case. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss G £400 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman