DRN-4027300
The complaint
Mr D has complained Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, has lodged a 
fraud-related marker on the industry fraud database, CIFAS, which has inconvenienced him.
What happened
In 2019 Mr D amended his direct debit with Tesco Bank so that the full amount would be 
paid when payment was due in mid-July.
Unfortunately Mr Ds direct debit bounced as there were insufficient funds in his current 
account. In the interim Mr D had made a number of gambling transactions which led him to 
use funds that were not available to him. Tesco Bank added a fraud-related marker, stating 
that Mr D had committed uncleared effects fraud and misused his credit facility, to the 
industry fraud database, CIFAS in August 2019.
Mr D was trying to get his finances back into a proper state in 2022 and became aware of 
the CIFAS marker. He asked Tesco Bank to remove the record from CIFAS.
Tesco Bank felt they had sufficient evidence to lodge the record with CIFAS and refused to 
do what Mr D asked them to do. Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and believed this showed that whilst Mr D was 
having financial difficulties, there was nothing to indicate hed tried to commit fraud. She 
asked Tesco Bank to remove the marker.
Tesco Bank felt they did have sufficient evidence to show Mr D had acted with premeditation 
to spend money that he didnt have.
In the absence of any agreement being reached, Mr Ds complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
So Tesco Bank must be able to provide clear evidence that an identified fraud was being 
committed and Mr D was involved. Im not convinced theyve done this here.
Tesco Bank has said that it was unusual for Mr D to amend his direct debit payment and 
would have known that he had insufficient funds to clear his credit card debt.
But, in fact, Mr D used his debit card to pay off his credit card debt in full (roughly the same 
amount as in July 2019) two to three months before this so I think historically Mr D did have 
access to sufficient funds so I wouldnt be at all surprised to find he believed hed have 
access to funds this time around as well.
I dont dispute that Mr D used funds that he subsequently didnt have. But this is partly due 
to the way the direct debiting scheme operates. Tesco Bank credits their credit card 
accounts the day they receive the direct debit payment. This would show as a credit on 
Mr Ds account. Tesco Bank would only get notification the following day that this direct debit 
was unfunded. I think as Mr D could have seen his credit card get credited, he may 
reasonably have believed funds were credited.
I can see Tesco believe that Mr D would have known that his direct debit payment would 
never have been successful. But I dont believe this takes into account Mr Ds state of mind 
at the time. Ive seen nothing to indicate Tesco Bank reached out to Mr D to discuss what 
was going on with him but his transaction history, which was gambling heavy, could have 
indicated that he was having financial difficulties. He was having difficulty not just managing 
this account but other accounts that he held.
The adding of a CIFAS marker seems to penalise Mr D for falling into financial difficulties 
and I dont believe that Tesco Bank has met the requirements for lodging a CIFAS marker.
Putting things right
On this basis I believe its fair and reasonable to ask Tesco Bank to remove the fraud marker 
from Mr Ds CIFAS record.
Mr D believed that he should be due additional compensation for Tesco Banks actions, but 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that would be appropriate in the circumstances of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading 
as Tesco Bank, to remove the marker from Mr Ds CIFAS record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman