DRN-3874054
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr F holds with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mr F, who has 
serious health problems, has been in long-standing arrears, and HSBC has turned down his 
request for a term extension and rejected a proposed payment plan that relied on financial 
support from family. Mr F thinks thats unfair. Hes also unhappy that, following an earlier 
complaint about the same broad subject, HSBC hasnt provided the help we said it should, 
and that HSBC has contacted him directly instead of a relative, Mrs S, who is authorised to 
represent him with the bank, and with us. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr F, Mrs S and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr F being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr Fs mortgage has been in arrears for about eight years; in 2016, we received a complaint 
about how HSBC was treating him. The adjudicator who looked into it recommended HSBC 
defer recovery action for a year, during which Mr F would seek to make interest-only 
payments, with a view to restoring full payments thereafter. The complaint was resolved 
informally on that basis. 
The current complaint started in 2021, after HSBC rejected a 2020 proposal to extend the 
mortgage term, and Mrs S discovered the bank had been contacting Mr F directly, which 
made his health problems worse. A further proposal made in 2021 asking that HSBC reduce 
the monthly instalment from £740 to £500  which would then be paid by a family member  
was also rejected, albeit after a delay when HSBC initially failed to reply to a letter.
Our investigator recommended this new complaint be upheld in part only; he recommended 
HSBC pay Mr F £500 for communication failures, but wasnt persuaded its decisions to 
reject the proposals had been unfair. HSBC accepted the recommendation; Mrs S has asked 
for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S wants us to consider whether HSBC kept the outcome of the 2016 complaint; I wont 
be revisiting that, and Ill explain why. The agreement reached in 2016 wasnt a 
legally-binding decision from an ombudsman. It was an informal settlement, brokered by the 
adjudicator, whereby Mr F was afforded more time, one year to be specific, to see if his 
situation could improve to the point where he could manage his mortgage commitments.
If Mr F or Mrs S on his behalf thought HSBC wasnt adhering to the spirit of the informal 
settlement, it was open to them to ask the adjudicator to re-open the case and have it 
referred for a final decision from an ombudsman. All Id add here, largely for context, is that 
whatever Mr F and Mrs S may feel about the degree of support HSBC has or hasnt offered 
since then, it would be hard to conclude that Mr Fs situation has improved to the extent 
necessary for him to manage his mortgage commitments. Thats why we are where we are 
now, seven years on rather than one.
Its entirely right that HSBC should compensate Mr F for its communication shortcomings; 
theres a reason HSBC should be dealing with Mrs S rather than Mr F directly. Also, given 
Mr Fs underlying health situation, a late (or missing entirely) response has a 
disproportionate effect on him. In all the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that 
compensation of £500 is fair, and Im glad to see HSBC has accepted this.
That brings me to the crux of the current complaint. HSBCs rejection of the two proposals 
put forward since 2020. The difficulty with these proposals is that both were predicated on 
family members maintaining the payments, either fully or in part, instead of Mr F doing so 
himself. But HSBC isnt willing to factor the family members financial situations into the 
affordability assessments it makes, and I wouldnt expect it to.  Mr Fs family members, 
however well-meaning and genuine their willingness to help, arent parties to the mortgage, 
and they havent given a personal covenant to pay the mortgage; so HSBC has no recourse 
against them in the event the mortgage isnt paid.
Mrs S has expressed frustration at spending a lot of time putting the second proposal 
together, only for it to be rejected for much the same reason as the first. She says HSBC 
should have been more explicit about its policy regarding financial support from family. I 
understand her sentiment, but lenders dont generally reveal details of their lending policy as 
theyre commercially sensitive. Also, whilst Im entirely satisfied its not the case here, theres 
also a risk of borrowers circumstances being manipulated and/or misrepresented to 
maximise the chance of success if lenders criteria are too well known.
Mrs S has told us of a new proposal she wants HSBC to consider; that is, of Mr F 
down-sizing to a smaller property with a more affordable mortgage. Thats not part of what 
Im considering here, as it has happened since the complaint was referred to us and so isnt 
covered by the final response HSBC provided.  
Its right that HSBC should consider this fresh proposal, but to be clear, nothing I say here 
obliges HSBC to agree to it. This latest, and indeed any, future request for a change to 
Mr Fs mortgage, will still be subject to HSBCs assessment of the proposals long-term 
viability at the relevant time.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on the outcome. I can see how important this is to Mr F. Thats natural and entirely 
understandable when youre as close to a situation as he is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome. 
Having done that, and having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, I dont find that HSBC has treated Mr F unfairly in its actions since the previous 
complaint was concluded. Mr F is in a horrible situation, and he has my sympathy. But 
treating someone fairly doesnt simply mean agreeing to what they want, and not every 
situation is capable of being resolved to the satisfaction of all parties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr F £500. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman