DRN-3175862
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited cancelled her private medical insurance policy 
due to fraud.
What happened
In December 2017, Mrs R took out the private medical insurance policy with Aviva. 
Mrs R made successful claims under the policy in 2019 and 2020 for treatment relating to 
jaw pain. 
In September 2020, Mrs R made another claim for treatment of her jaw pain. Aviva turned 
down the claim as it thought Mrs Rs condition would be considered chronic, which wasnt 
covered under the policy. Mrs R appealed against Avivas decision.
After considering the matter further, Aviva then advised Mrs R that it was cancelling her 
policy. It also wanted her to repay the claims payments it had made for her jaw pain over 
2019 and 2020. That was because Aviva thought Mrs R had knowingly made false 
statements when making her claims. Unhappy with this, Mrs R brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to apply its fraud clause.
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that if a claim made by a policyholder is fraudulent, fraudulently 
exaggerated or supported by a false statement or fraudulent evidence, Aviva may refuse to 
pay the claim, and recover any sums paid in respect of the claim. It also says Aviva may 
cancel the policy back to the date of the fraudulent act and keep all premiums. 
An allegation of fraud is a serious matter, and so Aviva needs to provide strong evidence to 
show that its most likely that Mrs R breached the above fraud clause. 
When Mrs R made her initial claim to Aviva in September 2019, she told Aviva shed been to 
see her dentist because shed experienced jaw pain for the past three days, and theyd 
recommended she see a consultant. She said it was affecting the temporomandibular joint. 
When Mrs R was asked by Aviva if shed had anything like it before, she answered never. 
However, its apparent from the information provided by Mrs Rs dentist and treating 
specialist that shed experienced temporomandibular joint pain for around 20 years. I note 
that in 2017, Mrs R had been to see her dentist about joint pain in her jaw - she was given a 
leaflet on joint pain and a bite guard.
Then in September 2020 (when Mrs R was making a later claim relating to her jaw pain), 
Aviva made it clear they would be asking her specialist for a copy of all letters relating to her 
jaw pain. Aviva then asked if shed been to see a dentist about the matter. Mrs R told Aviva 
that she hadnt seen a dentist in the last five to six years, and wasnt registered with a 
dentist. She also said that a dentist hadnt referred her to the specialist the year before, and 
that her GP had done so.
However, Mrs R was registered with a dentist and had been to see her dentist about her jaw 
pain in January 2017 and again in September 2019 when she was referred to the specialist. 
Mrs R had taken out the policy on a moratorium basis. Aviva has explained that if it had 
known Mrs R had experienced the problem previously, her claims would have fallen under 
the moratorium and wouldnt have been payable.
Taking into account the length of time over which Mrs R had experienced 
temporomandibular joint pain, and that this was material to the outcome of the claim, I think 
Aviva has provided sufficient evidence to justify its decision to invoke its fraud clause. 
Mrs R says she may have misunderstood the questions because English isnt her first 
language. However, after listening to the calls, Im in agreement with Aviva that Mrs R was 
able to give detailed responses to the questions asked, and it was apparent she understood 
what she was being asked. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman