DRN-1674296
 
The complaint
A complains about receiving poor service from Santander UK Plc when ordering a 
chequebook for their business bank account. And that they suffered reputational damage as 
a result of a cheque not being paid.
The complaint has been brought by Mr G, the director of A.
What happened
On 4 March 2019 Mr G requested a chequebook for As business bank account. He was 
advised that it would be delivered in seven to ten working days. Mr G contacted Santander 
on 13 March 2019 as it hadnt yet been received and so another chequebook was ordered.
On 21 March 2019 Santander confirmed to Mr G that both chequebooks were active. 
Mr G called Santander on 29 March 2019 querying why a cheque he wrote for £36,000 
hadnt been paid but had been returned by the bank instead. After looking in to the matter, 
Santander explained later that day that the first chequebook they issued was cancelled on
13 March 2019. And so Mr G was advised to write a new cheque from the second 
chequebook. 
Mr G raised concerns to Santander about what happened and the service received. He was 
unhappy with the amount of time hed spent calling Santander, and the payee of the cheque, 
to ensure the payment was received before the end of the tax year. And that Santander gave 
incorrect and conflicting information on a number of occasions, causing him significant 
stress. He also said that, while due to his efforts the £36,000 payment was made in time, 
had this not happened then there wouldve been tax consequences. And having to present 
the cheque a second time to the payee, due to the first being returned unpaid, caused 
reputational damage to A.
Santander wrote to Mr G twice in March 2019 and also July 2019 in response to this matter. 
They apologised for the incorrect information theyd given, the inconvenience this had 
caused and the amount of time hed spent resolving the matter. In recognition of this, they 
offered £125 compensation. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he thought 
the £125 compensation Santander offered was fair. 
Mr G disagreed and so the matter was passed to me to review.
I wrote to both parties to explain that I didnt think £125 compensation was enough and that, 
in the circumstances, I thought a fairer amount would be £200. So I recommended 
Santander pay A an additional £75.
Santander agreed with my recommendation but Mr G didnt think £200 was enough. He 
thought at least a further £50 was warranted for what happened. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that A received poor service from Santander or that the incorrect 
information provided to Mr G led to the cheque going unpaid. And so, I dont intend to revisit 
what happened further. Instead, Ive considered what compensation I think is fair for the 
impact this had on A.
Mr G was fortunately able to make the £36,000 payment before the end of the financial year. 
Because of this, there werent any tax consequences as a result of what happened and so A 
hasnt suffered a financial loss. That said it seems clear me to that A was inconvenienced as 
it required Mr G, acting in his capacity as director of A, to spend a lot of time and effort 
repeatedly chasing Santander about the matter. I think this was avoidable and only came 
about due to the incorrect information provided by Santander. 
I appreciate the cheque going unpaid may have caused some embarrassment for Mr G and 
that he feels this caused reputational damage to A. Although Ive not seen anything to show 
this had any lasting impact between A and the payee firm, I think its understandable for a 
companys reputation to be affected in such situations. And so Ive taken this in to account 
when deciding what amount of compensation is fair. 
Having done so, I think £200 is a reasonable amount to recognise both the trouble this 
matter has caused A as well as the impact on their reputation. I realise Mr G doesnt think it 
is enough and that a greater award is warranted. Id like to assure him that Ive taken what 
hes said in to account and I dont wish for him to feel that Ive underestimated what 
happened. But I think £200 is fair in the circumstances and so Im not going to increase it 
any further. 
I understand Santander has already paid £125 to A. If so, they are only required to pay a 
further £75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay £200 
compensation, in total, to A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman