DRN-3031064
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs F paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received, but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each 
of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
Mrs F told us that the policy was sold to her during a face to face meeting with Nationwide. 
But Ive been provided with a copy of her application form and having considered it, I think 
its more likely this was a postal application for both the credit card and the PPI. So I think 
Mrs F would have been able to complete the application form in her own time and at her own 
pace before returning it to Nationwide. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Nationwide made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mrs F didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Looking at the application 
form, I can see there were two equally prominent boxes for Mrs F to complete in respect of 
PPI  one to indicate she wanted a PPI policy and another to say she did not. I can see that 
the box agreeing to PPI has been selected. If Mrs F didnt want cover, I think shed have 
reasonably known she could have just selected the no box. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F. That means it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely 
information about the cover so she could decide if it was right for her.
I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for her. I can see 
that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mrs Fs credit card balance would 
have been repaid for every month she was off sick up to a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim. The same would have also been paid if Mrs F was made redundant.
In the PPI questionnaire, Mrs F says she didnt need the policy because she would have 
received more than 12 months full pay from her employer if she was off sick. That seems like 
a significantly more generous package than I would expect. I can see from the credit card 
application form that Mrs F had been with her employer for six years when the cover was 
sold. And I further note Nationwides records indicate she would have had six months full 
pay and six months half pay. Thats more in line with what Id expect. So it follows that I think 
the PPI cover would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. Similarly, it would have 
lasted for longer than the redundancy pay Mrs F told us about.  
I appreciate Mrs F would have been entitled to a death in service benefit from her employer. 
And I also note that she had life insurance cover. But both the death in service and the life 
cover would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death. She would not have 
been able to benefit from them if she was made redundant or if she was off sick. 
I can see Mrs F told us she had been diagnosed with a medical condition in 1970, which 
more than 25 years before the cover was sold. Mrs F said shed taken one or two weeks off 
work because of it. I note that Nationwides records indicate that Mrs F told it she didnt have 
a medical condition when she bought PPI, and that the issue with her back had been a one-
off problem that was resolved at the point of sale. With that in mind, the evidence before me 
doesnt suggest that Mrs F would have reasonably thought shed need to take time off work 
for this back problem when the policy was sold in 1997. On that basis, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical exclusion would have caused her to act differently. 
Those representing Mrs F say there were additional restrictions on the cover for back and 
mental health problems. They argued this meant the cover wasnt right for Mrs F. But having 
considered the policy document at some length, Im satisfied there were no such restrictions 
on this policy. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Fs employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. From the 
information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. I can see how the policy could have been helpful to Mrs F at what would have no doubt been a difficult time for her if she 
was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mrs F would have declined 
the cover had Nationwide given her more or better information about it. 
The policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the 
policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think 
that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Fs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs F about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. I have taken into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthe likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs F was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case.
With these things in mind, I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs F because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what, in all the circumstances, amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Fs representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs F should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs F about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted 
these things meant the policy was poor value. It was further submitted I should find that Mrs 
F wouldnt have taken out the policy had the level of commission been disclosed, and she 
should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints), and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have considered the relevant law, and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, my role 
as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation for Mrs F in order 
to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high level of commission 
to her before she purchased the policy.
In doing so, I have taken into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission;
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as Mrs Fs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line 
with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mrs F paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs F 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Nationwide had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
I understand Nationwide has already refunded this amount to Mrs Fs credit card account. 
On that basis, I dont require it to take any further action in this matter. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award in 
respect of it. 
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided Nationwide 
Building Society should refund to Mrs F an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As 
I understand Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I do 
not require it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman