DRN-3769774
The complaint
Mr C complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC when he was tricked into transferring 
money as a result of a scam. 
Mr C is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
review to Mr C in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In November 2021 Mr C was looking to purchase a tractor online. He made two payments to 
the seller. The first was an international payment of £4,850 and a second payment in the UK 
of £4,450. 
When the tractor failed to arrive in early December 2021 Mr C became suspicious, so he 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds considered the claim and decided to refund the 
second payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). But it said it wouldnt 
refund the first payment as it didnt think it did anything wrong. 
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said the payment was 
sent internationally which was unusual activity for his account which shouldve been stopped 
for further questioning by Lloyds. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the first payment of 
£4,850 wasnt sufficiently unusual for Lloyds to have stopped it and spoken to Mr C even if it 
was sent internationally. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said it was unusual for him to 
make an international payment, so this shouldve been stopped by Lloyds. And if it had the 
scam wouldve more than likely been uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM is a scheme through which consumers can sometimes be refunded by their bank 
when theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. But the CRM explicitly 
excludes international payments like the one Mr C made. So, as the CRM doesnt apply to 
this complaint, I cant use it as the basis to ask Lloyds to do more. 
It is common ground that Mr C authorised the £4,850 scam payment. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Mr C was the victim of a scam. He provided valid 
instructions through his online banking. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloydss first obligation is to follow the instruction that Mr C provided. But if that
instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Lloyds to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect Lloyds to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for Lloyds to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr C given to Lloyds to transfer £4,850 
was unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the nine months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a healthy 
balance. And Mr C did make payments ranging from £1,500, £2,405, £3,500 and £5,000.
Although the payment was sent internationally, I dont think it was sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious for Lloyds to intervene and ask questions of Mr C. Its not uncommon for 
customers to send one-off larger payments on their accounts. And I wouldnt expect Lloyds 
to stop every transaction that was sent internationally for the first time unless it was 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious  which I dont think it was here. There is a balance to be 
struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free access to their 
money. But in this case, I dont think it is reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have 
intervened.
Did Lloyds act reasonably when it was made aware of the scam?
When asking for Mr Cs money to be returned from a receiving bank, Id expect Lloyds to do 
this promptly in relation to an international payment. When the scam was raised to Lloyds on 
01 December 2020. Clearly Lloyds couldve requested this sooner than they did. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether this delay wouldve made a difference to whether Mr C 
wouldve received the money back from the receiving bank.  
When Lloyds raised the payment with the receiving bank there was no money left in the 
account. So, Ive considered whether its likely the money wouldve still been in the receiving 
bank when Lloyds sent its request for the payment to be returned. Here, Mr C sent the 
payment on 09 November 2020, but the scam wasnt raised with Lloyds until 01 December 
2020. So, even if Lloyds had been faster to ask if the money was still in the receiving bank, 
in the circumstances I think its likely the money wouldve been moved by the scammer very 
quickly after the payment was made because thats what scammers typically do. So, I dont 
think the delay likely made a difference here. So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman