DRN-2906892
The complaint
Miss M complains that Transunion International UK Limited disclosed her personal data to a 
third-party. 
What happened
Miss M and her partner complained to this service after a third-party told her that he could 
see personal data about Miss M and her partner when he viewed his own credit file.
Transunion explained to Miss Ms partner that his data was made visible to someone else 
due to a data matching error. Transunion wouldnt consider Miss M and her partners 
complaint jointly so the investigator looked at both complaints individually.
The investigator recommended that Transunion pay Miss M £100 compensation. Miss M 
accepts but Transunion disagrees. It says that there had been a data merge between      
Miss Ms partner and the third-party. Transunion says that although Miss M and her partner 
have a joint account, this would create an associate link but wouldnt allow either party to 
view the other persons report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where the evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Miss M has a joint bank account with her partner. Transuion upheld his complaint about his 
credit data appearing on the third-partys credit file. 
Transunion says that although an account may have been visible on the third-partys credit 
file, it wouldnt have been evident that it was linked to Miss M. However, the third-party  
who knew Miss M personally  contacted her about the data breach. This indicates that the 
third-party could see something that connected Miss M to the information he was mistakenly 
able to view on his own credit file.
Miss Ms partners credit file would show the name of anyone that he has a financial 
association with. It seems plausible that the third-party was able to see evidence of the 
financial association with Miss M when her partners data was merged with his credit file. Its 
possible therefore that the third-party made the link between Miss M and the joint account 
belonging to her partner that the third-party says he was able to view on his credit file.
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss M was told about the data breach by the third-party. This 
would no doubt have been of grave concern and possible embarrassment to Miss M  
particularly due to her personal connection to the third-party. 
The investigators recommendation that Transunion pay £100 to apologise seems 
reasonable. I consider it reflects the upset caused to Miss M but takes account of the limited 
information about her that would ever have been available to the third-party. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Transunion International UK Limited should pay Miss M £100.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Transunion 
International UK Limited to take the steps outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman