DRN-4281223
The complaint
Mr L complains that Vitality Life Limited avoided his life and serious illness insurance policies  
and refused to pay a claim. He also complains about poor service and claims handling 
delays.  
What happened
In summary, in December 2020, Mr L took out two policies with Vitality to provide life and 
serious illness cover. 
Most unfortunately, in January 2021, Mr L was diagnosed with cancer. In February 2021, Mr 
L claimed on his serious illness cover. Vitality requested medical evidence and further 
information from Mr L. After reviewing all the information obtained, Vitality said Mr L hadnt 
given full and accurate information during the application process. Vitality thought Mr L 
shouldve answered yes to questions about outstanding blood tests and unintentional or 
unexplained weight loss - when in fact, he answered no.         
Vitality considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation. It said that, had he answered 
correctly, it wouldve postponed cover until the results of the tests and cause of weight loss 
were known. Ultimately, upon Mr Ls subsequent diagnosis, it would not have offered life or 
serious illness cover at all. Vitality treated the misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. It 
refused to pay the claim and avoided Mr Ls policies.
Mr L complained and asked for an appeal, but Vitality maintained its position, so Mr L 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr L explained hed requested a 
repeat blood test to check on his cholesterol levels and that hed been intentionally losing 
weight as part of his health and fitness regime. He said the questions had been answered 
correctly. But our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Vitality had acted 
fairly in refusing to accept the claim, avoiding the policies and retaining the premiums.  
Mr L also complained about poor service and delays, but our investigator said we couldnt 
look at this aspect because Mr Ls complaint had been brought by a representative and we 
can only award compensation to eligible complainants themselves, that is, Mr L. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing 
news for Mr L and Im sorry about that. I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my 
decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality says Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered no to the following questions:
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any 
impairment or medical complaints that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are 
you currently awaiting the results of any investigations?
In the last 6 months have you experienced any unintentional or unexplained weight 
loss?
Vitality says Mr L shouldve answered yes to these questions, because when he applied for 
the policy, Mr L had been asked to have a blood test and book a further appointment with his 
GP to discuss the results. And the day after he took out the policies, Mr L spoke to his GP 
about weight loss over the previous six weeks.
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided. On 3 June 2020 Mr L spoke to his GP about 
repeating bloods due to borderline cholesterol levels the previous year. His GP agreed to 
repeat the tests but did not authorise them immediately, due to the Covid pandemic. The GP 
suggested Mr L contact the surgery for a form in the next four months. 
During a review consultation on 3 December 2020, Mr L was asked to collect test forms from 
reception that day and book a further appointment to discuss the results. Later that day he 
was sent a text message from the surgery to say a follow-up appointment had been booked 
for 17 December 2020. 
On 17 December 2020 Mr L told his GP he was yet to have the blood tests done but had 
booked an appointment for the following week. The doctors notes record the need for a 
review on completion of the investigations. 
Mr L applied for the policy on 17 December 2020 and was immediately accepted on 
standard terms. 
Im aware that Mr L was a man who prioritised his health and fitness, training regularly and 
paying attention to his diet. I accept that Mr L asked for his bloods to be repeated following 
concern about slightly raised cholesterol in the previous years results. I note that our 
investigator didnt think Mr L had misrepresented regarding the tests as hed asked for them 
himself prior to application. But I dont think this matters in terms of the question he was 
asked. The fact is that when he took out the policy Mr L had concerns about his cholesterol 
levels and his GP had authorised repeat bloods, intending to discuss the results with him. 
This was outstanding at the time of application, so I dont think Vitality acted unfairly in 
concluding that Mr L failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.   On 25 November 2020, Mr L consulted his GP regarding a respiratory tract infection. From 
the GP record its evident Mr L was asked about a number of potential symptoms. The notes 
record no wt loss or loss of appetite. 
On 18 December 2020, Mr L again consulted his GP. The notes state:
recent cough and spoken to GP, much better with antibiotics, almost resolved. No 
SOB, no CP. Goes to gym and is fine. No dyspepsia, no sinus drip/congestion. Was 
made redundant a month ago. Eating less, lost a stone in 6 weeks. PU normal. BO 
usually once a day, has been waking up approx. twice at night to open bowels. No 
blood in stool, no abdominal pain. No FHx. 
Has blood test already on 30/12/20. Add on TTG, TSG. Do faecal calprotectin + FIT 
test.
Mr L has said that as part of his fitness regime he was intentionally losing weight and 
therefore answered Vitalitys question correctly. But the GP record indicates there was a 
discussion about his weight loss and current bowel habits which resulted in the GP 
requesting some additional tests alongside the outstanding bloods. 
Im aware Mr Ls consultant haematologist has provided a letter saying he could find no 
evidence in his documentation or recollections of consultations to show that Mr Ls ill-health 
pre-dated Christmas 2020. And specifically, the consultant said it was quite clear Mr L had 
no symptoms suggestive of cancer prior to taking out the policy. Ive thought carefully about 
this. But the question asked relates simply and specifically to unintended or unexplained 
weight loss. So I think it was reasonable for Vitality to rely on the GP record of 18 December 
2020  which suggests recent, unexplained weight loss pre-dating the start of the policy - to 
conclude that Mr L failed to take reasonable care when answering that question.
Vitality has provided information about its underwriting criteria to show what would have 
happened had Mr L answered the questions accurately. In relation to both questions, the 
outcome wouldve been the same. Vitality said it wouldve postponed cover, until the 
outcome of tests/investigations was known. The results of the tests quickly led to Mr Ls 
diagnosis, at which point Vitality would not have offered life or serious illness cover at all. 
Given that the non-disclosures wouldve made a difference to Vitalitys decision to offer Mr L 
cover, Im satisfied Mr Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Vitality has treated Mr Ls misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. The Association of 
British Insurers Code of Practice  Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly says 
that for a misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, on the balance of probabilities, the 
customer knew, or must have known, that the information given was both incorrect and 
relevant to the insurer, or the customer acted without any care as to whether it was either 
correct or relevant to the insurer. Relying on the GP evidence and timeline of events, I think 
this was a fair categorisation.
As Im satisfied Mr Ls misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate/reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Vitality can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances an 
insurer can avoid a policy, treating it as if it had never existed, and keep the premiums. It is 
not obliged to pay any claim. This is what Vitality has done in respect of both Mr Ls policies. 
These actions are in line with the law, so I dont think Vitality has acted unreasonably 
regarding Mr Ls policies and claim.
Mr L has also complained about delays in assessing his claim and poor service from Vitality. 
Our investigator didnt think this was something we could comment on, but I disagree. Im 
satisfied the complaint is about the impact of delays and poor service on Mr L. Ive reviewed Vitalitys response to Mr L in respect of these complaint points and note that Vitality 
apologised for distress and inconvenience caused and provided feedback to claims 
management for service improvement purposes. Vitality offered Mr L £400 compensation 
which was later accepted by Mr L, without prejudice to this complaint.
So Ive thought about whether the amount of compensation is sufficient to recognise the 
impact of delays and poor service on Mr L at what was a difficult time for him, following his 
diagnosis. Had Vitality not already acknowledged mistakes and offered compensation, I 
would have directed payment in this region, because the businesss drop in service 
standards did cause considerable distress, upset and worry over a number of months as Mr 
L waited for his claim decision. I think the level of compensation was fair, so Im not going to 
ask Vitality to pay anything more.    
So in light of all the circumstances, I dont think Vitality Life Limited needs to do anything 
more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman