DRN-3995198
The complaint
Mr H and Ms T complain that they applied for a new fixed interest rate on part of their 
mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) but it wasnt applied to the account. They 
said they didnt get a form to sign to take up the offer, or notification it hadnt been applied.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr H and Ms T, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr H. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr H said the fixed rate on part of their mortgage with YBS was expiring at the end of July 
2021. So, earlier that month, Mr H applied for a new fixed interest rate deal with YBS. But Mr 
H said that at the end of 2022, he realised he hadnt been given the deal he applied for.
Mr H complained about this in November 2022, and hes also unhappy about how YBS 
responded to his complaint. He said he contacted YBS in early November, but no one 
responded. He contacted YBS again on 24 November, and said he was told then that YBS 
had made a mistake. There had been changes to their system for confirmation letters, 
around the time when Mr H made his application. 
Mr H said what happened had significantly affected him, but he said his complaint still wasnt 
actioned then. And when he did finally manage to make a complaint (which he then did by 
email), YBS just said it had sent him an offer letter, and he should have signed and returned 
that if he wanted to take up the mortgage offer. 
Mr H said he never received any such letter. Mr H thought that was likely to be as a result of 
the problems with YBSs system that the agent had described. He felt that YBS should have 
used tracked or special delivery when sending important documents like this. And he said if 
no reply to a letter like this was received, YBS should follow it up. 
Mr H said he didnt notice the problem until late 2022, but he thought there was no way he 
could have been aware of this mistake before February 2022. That was when he received 
his next mortgage statement  and Mr H said he would still have had to look closely at the 
bottom of page 2 (of several) where it did mention the standard variable rate (SVR). Mr H 
said it wasnt true to say hed received many letters informing him that he was on YBSs 
SVR. He said these letters were telling him about changes to this rate, but they werent clear 
that the SVR actually applied to him. 
Mr H said his mortgage payments are now higher than they would have been under the 
mortgage product that he applied for, which will lead to significant losses over the duration of 
the 10 year fixed term he had applied for. He wanted his online application to be honoured, 
or compensation for the additional payments he will make over the 10 year mortgage period.
YBS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It told us it had sent Mr H and Ms T a letter in 
July 2021, with offer documents and a form to sign and return, if they wanted to accept the 
mortgage offer. It never got a reply to this. 
YBS has explained that it did have a problem with these offer letters at around this time, but 
the problem wasnt what Mr H thought - that they werent sent out at all. The problem was 
that some of the letters which were sent, may not have contained all the information YBS 
wanted to give its customers. YBS has shown us the subsequent letters it issued (including 
one it sent to Mr H and Ms T) which apologised for this mistake, and set out the additional 
information which may have been missed from the earlier correspondence. 
YBS also said that when Mr H rang on 2 November to complain, it did ring him back, and left 
a message for him. It said Mr H contacted it again, on 24 November, and it rang him back a 
few days later, but by then he was waiting for the complaints team to deal with the issue. 
YBS wouldnt honour Mr Hs July 2021 mortgage application, but it said he could apply for a 
new fixed rate now if he would like. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt clear why Mr 
H and Ms T never received the correspondence that YBS sent in July 2021, but it was 
correctly addressed. Our service wouldnt hold YBS responsible for issues that may have 
been caused by delivery services.
Our investigator said YBS sent Mr H annual mortgage statements, and the statement dated 
January 2022 confirmed that part of Mr H and Ms Ts mortgage was on the SVR. YBS also 
wrote again after this, to tell them this rate was changing. So our investigator thought YBS 
had made clear that part of Mr H and Ms Ts mortgage was on the SVR. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said there was strong evidence suggesting YBS was at fault, and 
there was no evidence that the letter had actually been sent. He referred again to the 
problems YBS had experienced around July 2021 with its letters. (Our investigator hadnt 
passed on to Mr H at this point, the details of the problems that YBS experienced in July 
2021.) He also said he felt strongly that it was YBS responsibility to follow up on letters 
which were sent but received no response, especially ones as important as this one. He still 
didnt think that he and Ms T should bear the costs of YBS mistake. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She sent Mr H evidence that the letter had been 
sent out by YBS in July 2021. Mr H said he had no idea that any letter would be sent to him 
after hed done his application. There was no evidence any letter had been sent, and he said 
that any record of this could easily have been faked afterwards. He also said we still hadnt 
dealt with the problems which YBS had admitted to, around the time that his letter was 
supposed to be issued. Finally, Mr H still thought YBS should use a tracked delivery service, 
and should follow up if no response was received. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr H applied online to remortgage part of his existing lending. It isnt unusual for a lender to 
provide a formal offer in response to such an application, and to ask for a signed form to be 
returned. Mr H says that he wasnt aware this would happen, and he wasnt expecting any offer letter. 
It is possible that YBS did indicate this, and Mr H just overlooked it. But even if it hadnt, I 
would have expected Mr H to anticipate receiving some correspondence confirming the 
change to his mortgage, and to have contacted YBS if nothing at all was received.
Mr H thought that what had gone wrong at YBS meant the offer letter probably wasnt sent in 
July 2021. But YBS has explained what went wrong then, and it says letters were sent. It has 
shown us evidence that an offer letter was issued to Mr H and Ms T. Mr H says this evidence 
could easily have been faked later. But thats a very serious accusation, and I havent seen 
anything at all to make me think that. I do think the letter was issued, to the right address. 
We know Mr H didnt return that offer letter, because he says it was never received. He has 
argued that YBS ought to have sent it using a tracked service, because of the importance of 
this letter, and also that it ought to have followed up on this if it wasnt received. 
I understand why Mr H would take this view, and I recognise that service standards could 
always be higher. But it isnt the role of our service to insist that a business provides its 
customers with the best service possible. What I have to do is assess whether YBS has 
been unreasonable or unfair to Mr H. And here, I do think that most items of ordinary post 
that are sent, are received. I also think that it just isnt unfair or unreasonable for YBS not to 
chase its customers, if they dont respond to offers it has made. 
Mr H also thought it wasnt fair that this issue wasnt brought to his attention after this. He 
told us that he didnt realise, when his mortgage statement was issued in January 2022, that 
part of his mortgage was on the lenders SVR. He said he could have spotted the mistake 
then, but hed have had to look closely at the bottom of page 2 of 5 (approximately) [where] 
it did mention SVR.
The mortgage statement sent out to Mr H and Ms T in January 2022 carries a prominent 
warning on the first page of the letter, that part of the mortgage is on the SVR. It says this  
Your mortgage is currently on our Standard Variable Rate (SVR)
You could be paying less interest and reducing your monthly payments by 
transferring to one of our other mortgage products. It's easy to switch, you won't need 
to pay any legal fees and we won't need to run a credit check or verify your income. 
[emphasis in the original]
So I do think that YBS did warn Mr H, on his next annual statement, that his mortgage was 
partly on the SVR. 
Although Mr H says that this warning wasnt relevant, as it came some months after his 
application wasnt completed, I do think it is relevant. Mr H wants YBS to cover the 
difference between the 2021 offer, and what hes paying now. But I think that, at this point in 
early 2022, Mr H would have been able to obtain a more favourable rate than the SVR, and 
perhaps more favourable than he may be able to obtain now.
I would also note that YBS wrote again to Mr H and Ms T on 31 January 2022, to put right 
any mistake in the letter it had sent in July 2021. That letter told Mr H and Ms T that they 
ought to have received a mortgage illustration and offer in 2021. I think this was a further 
opportunity to put things right.
Ive also looked at what YBS did when Mr H complained. It has set out that it didnt ignore Mr 
Hs contact with it, and I think it has responded to him within a reasonable timescale. I know Mr H and Ms T are very concerned that theyre paying much more on their mortgage 
now than they would have been if theyd been given the fixed rate they wanted, in July 2021. 
But I havent been able to conclude that this is YBSs fault. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask YBS to honour that offer now, or to pay compensation for the 
higher mortgage payments they are now making. I know that Mr H and Ms T will be 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman