DRN-3079968
Complaint
Mr W has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to him. He says the overdraft shouldnt have been provided because it was obvious 
he had a gambling problem.
Background
Mr W also has a complaint about a loan NatWest provided to him. But weve already told him 
that were looking at that separately. And this decision is only looking at Mr Ws complaint 
about his overdraft.
NatWest provided Mr W with an overdraft with an initial limit of £1,000.00 in October 2018. 
The limit was increased to £2,000.00 a week later and then £3,000.00 in November 2018. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and NatWest had told us. And she thought 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly in relation to providing the 
overdraft. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
NatWest needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Mr Ws initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mr W says it was obvious he had a gambling problem and so shouldnt have 
been lent to. Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and NatWest have said. 
I have to start by saying that NatWest did ask Mr W about his income and expenditure 
before providing the overdraft and limit increases. And the information provided did suggest 
that what was being advanced was affordable. However, Im mindful that Mr W made three 
applications within a short period of time. And in these circumstances, I think that NatWest 
should have taken a closer look at his circumstances before agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Mr Ws statements, in the lead up to the overdraft being 
provided, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this period of time. In particular, 
there wasnt anything in Mr Ws account transactions prior to the increase which contradicted 
what Mr W had declared during his applications. 
Mr W says his account transactions obviously showed that he had a gambling problem.  I 
would agree that it might have been irresponsible for NatWest to have lent to him had this 
been the case. But having looked through Mr Ws statements in the lead up to the overdraft 
applications, I dont think that it was obvious Mr W was gambling excessively. The 
overwhelming majority of Mr Ws transactions were made up of account transfers, retail debit 
card purchases and direct debits. 
To be clear, Im not saying Mr W wasnt gambling at this stage - its possible he was in other 
ways. What Im saying is, this isnt immediately obvious from the conduct of this account. As 
this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about the bank statements not 
contradicting Mr Ws income and expenditure declarations, Im satisfied the information 
available suggested NatWest was reasonably entitled to conclude Mr W could repay what he 
was being lent within a reasonable period of time. 
I know that Mr Ws position did worsen after the increase to £3,000.00 was agreed. And its 
more apparent from his statements that hes gambling after this. But this was after the 
decision to lend had already been taken. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to 
use hindsight here, or say that NatWest should have known this would happen. 
So overall while I have doubts as to whether NatWests checks did go far enough, bearing in 
mind what Mr Ws statements in the period leading up to the increase showed, I dont think 
that NatWest treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his overdraft or 
his limit increases. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman