DRN-3249162
The complaint
Mr J complains about Santander UK Plc and the way they handled his Direct Debit 
Indemnity (DDI) claims.
What happened
On 2 September 2021 Mr Js energy supplier, who Ill refer to as P, took a payment of 
£972.88 via direct debit from his account. Mr Js previous payments to P had been around 
£40, so he contacted Santander to make a DDI claim.
As per the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) process, Santander credited Mr Js account with 
£972.88 and raised a DDI with P. But P rejected the claim, stating it wasnt a valid claim. So, 
Santander re-debited Mr Js account. Mr J was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr J provided Santander with a letter from P, which stated they had rejected the first DDI 
claim unfairly and advised Mr J to ask Santander to raise another claim. While Santander 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong, they acknowledged this letter and raised a second 
DDI claim with P, re-crediting Mr Js account. But P again rejected the DDI claim and so, 
Santander re-debited Mr Js account. Mr J was again unhappy about this, so he raised 
another complaint.
Mr J didnt think Santander had acted fairly by re-debiting his account when the letter from P 
stated theyd taken the payment by mistake. So, he wanted the payment to be refunded to 
his account. Mr J was also unhappy Santander had said theyd speak to P on his behalf only 
for them to say they were unable to do so. So, Mr J wanted to be compensated for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Santander upheld Mr Js complaint in part. They thought theyd acted fairly, and in line with 
DDG process, when re-debiting Mr Js account when the DDI claims were defended. And 
they thought they made this process clear to Mr J at the outset of his claims. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint as Mr Js concerns lay 
with P. But they accepted Mr Js testimony that hed been given the wrong information when 
he was told Santander would call P on his behalf and offered Mr J £50 to recognise the 
upset this caused. Mr J remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Santander had 
raised both DDI claims in line with the DDG process and that theyd acted fairly when re-
debiting Mr Js account when those claims were defended. She recognised Mr J disputed 
receiving correspondence from P but she explained this wasnt the responsibility of 
Santander. And she thought the £50 Santander had offered to recognise the mis-information 
Mr J received was fair, considering she wouldnt expect Santander to contact P on Mr Js 
behalf after two defended DDI claims. So, she didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
more.
Mr J didnt agree. He didnt think this was enough to recognise the financial impact taking the 
payment had on him, and also the inconvenience he was caused when making DDI claims. 
Mr J explained hed lost his job due to the amount of calls hed needed to take and make 
regarding this issue and he held Santander responsible for this. As Mr J didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr J. I appreciate the 
payment P took was a substantial increase on his usual direct debit. And I recognise Mr J 
says he didnt receive notification of this increase from P. So, I think it wouldve been 
alarming and worrying for Mr J when he saw the payment on his account and he contacted 
Santander to help rectify the financial situation he found himself in. And when Santander 
didnt do this as he expected, I can understand why Mr J would deem the service hes 
received to be unfair.
But for me to say Santander have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed 
to act within the DDG when raising the DDI claim. Or, if they did act within this, that they 
acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Santander raised a DDI claim twice with P. And each time, they re-credited Mr Js 
account with the disputed payment amount which falls in line with the DDG. But both times, 
P defended the DDI claim stating the payment had been taken correctly. So, Santander were 
unable to recoup the payment amount theyd credited into Mr Js account and so, they re-
debited it. This again falls in line with the DDG process and so, I cant say Santander have 
acted unfairly when doing so.
I understand Mr J feels the letter he received from P on 15 September 2021 is evidence that 
P shouldnt have taken the payment. And within this letter, P does advise Mr J to make 
another DDI claim with Santander, which he did. So, I can appreciate why Mr J would be left 
confused that the DDI claim was rejected again. But it wasnt Santander who defended the 
second claim after that letter had been provided by P, it was P themselves. So, I think it was 
P at fault for the confusion thats been caused, not Santander. And because of this, I dont 
think I can say Santander acted unfairly. Id expect them to make their decisions based on 
Ps response to the DDI claims and I can see they have.
Mr J has also raised concerns about Santander raising a second DDI, rather than just 
sending the letter P sent him to P as he felt this was proof he was entitled to a refund. But 
this isnt something Id expect Santander to do. As Mr J was disputing a payment taken by 
direct debit, Id expect Santander to follow the DDG guidance which states a DDI claim 
needs to be raised. So, I think Santander acted fairly by doing so and because of this, I 
wouldnt expect them to do anything more on this occasion.
But I recognise Santander have accepted they provided Mr J with the incorrect information 
when saying they would contact P for Mr J, after the second claim had been defended. And 
they offered Mr J £50 to recognise the impact this had. I do think it wouldve been frustrating 
when Mr J realised Santander wouldnt speak to P on his behalf as he was led to believe 
they would. So, I think Santander failed to manage his expectations. But I think the £50 Santander offered is fair and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
made. So, I dont think Santander need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. And I recognise this doesnt help 
resolve the fact hes been left without a significant sum of money. But I think its P who are 
responsible for taking this from his account and then defending the two DDI claims. So, I 
think this is an issue Mr J needs to raise with P directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman