DRN-2298308
The complaint
Mr W says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr W says that Moneyboat didnt carry out effective affordability checks. If it 
had done it wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Moneyboat provided to Mr W between October 2017 and 
October 2018. Some of the information Moneyboat has provided about this lending is in the 
table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 02/10/2017 £300 6 20/02/2018
2 16/03/2018 £200 2 24/04/2018
3 24/04/2018 £350 6 23/10/2018
4 23/10/2018 £500 5 24/04/2019
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that Moneyboat had information 
that showed that all of the loans were unlikely to be affordable for Mr W. 
Moneyboat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that, whilst the credit reference 
agency information did show Mr W had other short term lending, it wouldnt be practical to 
fully review all of the information it had before approving these loans. This was partly due to 
its automated processes, and partly as it said its consumers require a quick decision about 
lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
As our adjudicator explained, Moneyboats credit checks showed that Mr W had taken 
significant amounts of other short term lending, and also some other high cost credit, before 
he took these loans with Moneyboat. These would be due to be repaid at the same time as 
the Moneyboat loans. I think there was enough other lending to say that Moneyboat 
shouldnt have approved any further loans as Mr W would be unlikely to be able to repay 
these sustainably.  
Moneyboat has said that it didnt fully consider the information it had about Mr W before 
lending. This was to ensure that it provided a quick and efficient service to Mr W. And it also 
says that the FCA guidance does not say that it needed to look at each line of a credit file in 
respect of each loan, particularly early on in the lending relationship. 
But Moneyboat had information that showed Mr W was possibly in financial difficulty. And 
having looked at the credit file information Moneyboat has supplied I dont think its difficult to 
see this. The first few pages of the credit file information Moneyboat has supplied show that 
Mr W had recently started significant amounts of other lending and there had been 
repayment problems with this. There is more detail about this later in the report. 
I think its reasonable to say that this information was easily accessible to Moneyboat. And it 
follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat should have fully considered it. 
I think Moneyboat couldve realised at that time that Mr W may have some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. And I think Moneyboat shouldve seen Mr W wasnnt likely to have been able repay 
the loans in a sustainable way. 
So, I think that Moneyboat shouldnt have given loans 1 to 4 to Mr W and I think hes lost out 
as a result of this and Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about these loans.
Putting things right
Moneyboat shouldnt have given Mr W loans 1 to 4.
A) Moneyboat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Moneyboat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) Moneyboat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
in relation to loans 1 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax Moneyboat has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman