DRN-1593743
The complaint
Mr O complains that NRAM Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by giving him 
misleading information about early settlement of his mortgage. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr O had a mortgage with NRAM, which was held in joint names with his ex-wife. He said 
that in February 2019 he spoke to NRAM about a final and full settlement of the mortgage. 
Mr O said that he didn't think this would be possible due to the fact that the mortgage was in 
joint names, but NRAM left him with the impression that it would be fine. Later in June, when 
Mr O called NRAM to discuss the matter again, he was told this wasn't possible as his ex-
wife needed to be involved.
Mr O complained to NRAM. It said it listened to the February call and Mr O wasn't told that 
any payment he made would be in full and final settlement of NRAM's claim against both 
parties to the mortgage. It said that Mr O was told that the settlement would only be with the 
person who agreed the settlement (so only him), and the other party to the mortgage would 
be liable for the rest of the debt. NRAM confirmed that its process was to ask both parties for 
payment, but it couldn't tell him what was been done in relation to Mr O's ex-wife.
Mr O complained to us, and said that it wasn't made clear to him that if he reached an 
agreement with NRAM, the account would remain open to enable NRAM to pursue his ex-
wife. The investigator's view was that NRAM wasn't at fault. He listened to the call in 
February and said NRAM never told Mr O if he reached a settlement with it about the 
mortgage debt, it wouldn't pursue his ex-wife. The investigator noted that NRAM's own policy 
confirmed that early settlement with one party to a mortgage didn't mean it wouldn't ask the 
other borrower to pay.
Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage is taken out in two (or more) names, all the borrowers are jointly and 
severally liable to pay the mortgage in full. This means that each borrower is responsible to 
pay all of the debt, and it's up to them to decide how to pay it between themselves, not 
involving the lender. The lender is able to ask for the whole debt from one borrower only, or 
agree settlements with each one. But each borrower can't decide much the other one pays 
to the lender, and any deal the lender reaches with one borrower doesn't necessarily affect 
the amount the other borrowers pays (though it can be relevant in legal proceedings).
This means that as a matter of law, NRAM is right to say that whatever Mr O agrees with it 
can't affect its rights against his ex-wife. But it's also right that Mr O can reach a private 
agreement with NRAM about his personal liability to pay the mortgage, though this wouldn't 
result in the closure of the mortgage account, and this is reflected in NRAM's policies.I've listened to the call in February 2019 between Mr O and NRAM. Having done so, I noted 
that the conversation about a settlement was brief and summary in nature. Mr O was simply 
told that if he wanted to make a settlement offer, he should do so. NRAM didn't tell Mr O that 
if he agreed a settlement with NRAM, it would cover his ex-wife who then wouldn't be asked 
for payment. In fact, the whole context of the conversation was about Mr O's concern that his 
ex-wife wasn't paying towards the debt.
I can't say that Mr O was provided with incorrect or misleading information, or that NRAM is 
at fault for saying that an agreement with Mr O doesn't cover his ex-wife.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
29 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman