DRN-3038844
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined a claim they made under 
their property insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Mr and Mrs A includes things said and done by their representative.
  
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs A got in touch with Allianz after they discovered cracking to their 
extension. Its been described as a conservatory or sun room. Allianz appointed a loss 
adjuster, D, who visited the property to inspect the damage and arranged for investigations 
to be carried out.
D initially thought the damage had been caused by clay shrinkage subsidence, exacerbated 
by nearby trees and compounded by additional weight that had recently been added to the 
structure. Its investigations revealed the extension foundation was 180mm deep, founded on 
clay soil highly susceptible to shrinkage. Roots were found to a depth of 1.5m.
Allianz declined the claim for poor workmanship. It said that when the extension was altered 
in 2017, the foundation should have been extended to take into account the increased 
weight of the structure and the nearby trees. Based on the guidance of a certain builder of 
new homes, N, it thought the foundation ought to have been extended to at least 2.6m deep. 
It accepted the extension was subsiding  but thought this wouldnt have happened if the 
foundation depth had been increased.
Mr and Mrs A took advice from P, a chartered surveyor. P said the extension may fall short 
of current standards due to its age, but they didnt see evidence of defective construction. 
They said the extension had been damaged by subsidence due to clay shrinkage caused by 
nearby trees. Mr and Mrs A shared this with Allianz and complained about the way their 
claim had been handled. They said they bought the house around 1995, with the extension 
already in place. And in 2017 they had work done to the extension which consisted of 
replacing the door and window frames, as well as the roof. They didnt think these alterations 
required adherence to Building Regulations or checking the foundation depth.
Allianz took advice from a structural engineer, S. They estimated the weight of the structure 
had likely increased when the roof was changed, as the new tiled material was heavier than 
the previous glass one. They also thought the current foundation was inadequate. I 
understand Allianz considered arranging another site investigation to identify the depth of the 
foundation to the main house in order to establish what depth the extension foundation 
should have been. It doesnt appear that investigation went ahead.
Allianz said it had relied on reports from experts and they concluded the damage was 
caused by poor workmanship  which the policy doesnt cover. But it accepted there had 
been delays and poor service during the claim and paid £800 compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the extension had 
been subject to the standards of N, so it was unfair to judge it against them. And no other 
regulations had been mentioned by Allianz. As a result, he didnt think it had shown there 
had been poor workmanship.
Allianz accepted the standards of N werent relevant. And it said there were no other 
regulations it could rely on. But it maintained the main cause of the subsidence problem was 
the increased weight  and that should have prompted the builder to increase the foundation 
depth.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and Allianz accepts the extension has 
suffered subsidence damage. The policy excludes subsidence damage caused by faulty 
workmanship, defective plans or the use of defective materials.
Allianz has relied on this exclusion to decline the claim. In summary, it says the foundation 
should have been increased when the alterations were carried out. And if they had been, the 
subsidence problem wouldnt have happened. The onus is on Allianz to show this is the 
case.
Allianz seems to have recognised that relying on the standards used by a certain builder of 
new homes, N, wouldnt be reasonable here. I agree. Thats because theres no evidence 
the original extension, or the recent alterations, were done under the supervision of N. That 
means there was no obligation on the builder to follow Ns standards. As a result, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to judge the depth of the foundation against these standards.
Both P and S agree the foundation is likely to be below current standards. So, if the 
extension had been built recently, it may be considered faulty workmanship or poor design 
by modern standards. But it was built at least 25 years ago, when different standards 
applied. And it wouldnt be reasonable to apply the standards of today to something built 
such a long time ago.
Allianz hasnt argued the foundation was unsuitable or defective at the time it was built. I 
understand it accepts Building Regulations were unlikely to have applied to the conservatory 
at that time. And it has stood without structural problems for over twenty years despite the 
presence of trees nearby. So, its unlikely to have been defective at the time it was laid.
Allianzs argument is that the alterations carried out in 2017 should have prompted the 
builder to increase the foundation depth at that point. Allianz asked S to estimate what 
impact the change of roof material would have had on the weight. S concluded it would have 
increased. It based this on detailed engineering calculations, so Im prepared to accept what 
they say. But just because the weight would likely have increased, it doesnt necessarily 
mean the builder should reasonably have been prompted to check the foundation depth. 
Depending on the nature of the work involved, some alterations to a structure may require a 
builder to comply with prevailing Building Regulations or other relevant guidance when 
carrying out work  and that can mean upgrading aspects of the structure in line with modern 
standards. But that wont be the case for all work carried out on all structures. Its for Allianz 
to set out why these particular alterations should have prompted the builder to check the 
foundation  and what regulation or guidance thats based on.But Allianz hasnt explained which Regulations or other relevant guidance set out a 
requirement to consider the foundation depth, based on the particular alteration work that 
was carried out in this case. So, whilst the builder could have considered the foundation 
depth, Im not persuaded Allianz has shown they were required to. And if there was no 
requirement for them to do so, Im not satisfied it amounted to faulty workmanship if they 
didnt.
Even if I accepted the builder should have considered the foundation depth, and should have 
chosen to extend it, its unclear what depth Allianz thinks it should have been taken to. The 
only figures it mentioned were reliant on the standards of N, which its since accepted dont 
apply. In my experience, its rare for conservatories to be subject to Building Regulations and 
they tend to have foundations of no more than 1m. Roots were found to a depth of 1.5m. So, 
it seems likely there would still have been a subsidence problem even if the foundation had 
been extended  which was unlikely to be required in any event.
So, in summary, Allianz hasnt persuaded me the foundation was unsuitable when it was 
built, that it should have been considered when the extension was altered, or that it should 
have been extended to a depth that would have taken it beyond the influence of the tree 
roots. In these circumstances, Im not satisfied Allianz has shown the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship reasonably applies. Because of that, I think Allianz should now accept the 
claim.
Allianz has accepted the original investigation was subject to delay and poor service. It took 
more than a year to carry out an inspection, soil investigation, and decide an outcome. 
Thats significantly longer than Id usually expect it to take.
Im satisfied this has caused Mr and Mrs A avoidable distress and inconvenience and its 
increased the amount of time it will take to resolve this problem  and in the meantime, 
theyve suffered the uncertainty of how the work will be paid for. Having thought about the 
impact on them, Im satisfied the £800 Allianz paid for this was reasonable. So I dont think 
Allianz needs to pay further compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Allianz Insurance Plc to accept the subsidence claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman