DRN-3656547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim theyve made 
on their buildings insurance policy following damage to a house they own. 
As Mr P has led the complaint with this Service, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr P owns a property rented out to tenants, insured by an Ageas buildings policy.
Some damage to the roof was discovered and Mr P made a claim under the storm 
damage section of his policy. He obtained a report from a roofing contractor detailing 
the cause but Ageas declined the claim saying the damage was as a result of poor 
workmanship which the storm had highlighted.
Our Investigator considered the evidence but thought Ageas had declined the claim 
fairly based on the evidence available and so Mr P asked an Ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator provided details of this Services approach to claims relating to 
storm damage so I dont propose to repeat that here. My decision will focus on the 
evidence Ageas relied on to conclude the damage was not as a result of the storm.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show 
the claim is covered and if an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline the 
claim, the onus is on it to demonstrate that exclusion applies.
The exclusion which Ageas has relied on is within the policy wording What is not 
covered: 11. Loss or damage caused byfaulty workmanship or using faulty 
materials.
The report by Mr Ps expert explained that while Mr P had paid for maintenance to be 
undertaken on the roof, the work had been improperly done and wrong materials had 
been used. Additionally, damaged materials hadnt been removed and this led to 
bubbling which had lifted and meant protection was no longer provided to the roof.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to say the damage 
was as a result of faulty workmanship and the storm merely highlighted the issues 
with the roof. 
For completeness, Ive also looked at the Accidental Damage section of the policy to 
see if the claim might be covered under this but note it contains a similar exclusion 
relating to faulty materials and workmanship so Im satisfied the claim isnt covered 
under this part of the policy either.
It follows, Im satisfied Ageas acted fairly in declining the claim. So, I wont be asking 
it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman