DRN-4414427
The complaint
Ms S complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund her the amount she lost as 
the result of a scam.
Ms S is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Ms S 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Ms S found an advertisement for a business I will call B and Ms S completed a 
form with her contact information. Shortly afterwards Ms S received a call from B explaining 
the investment opportunities available. 
B convinced Ms S that the investment opportunity was legitimate and walked her through the 
different processes involved in setting up an account with it using screen sharing software. 
Ms S made a number of transactions to B via a crypto currency exchange and via a transfer 
to a different Revolut account.
However, When Ms S tried to make a withdrawal from her investment, she was asked to 
make further deposits to cover interest payments and commissions. After some back and 
forth Ms S realised that she had been scammed.
Our Investigator considered Ms Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms S 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has accepted she authorised the payments she made to B, so the starting point here is 
that Ms S is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Ms S was making.
Ms S had not used her Revolut account before the scam, so a usual spending pattern had 
not yet been established by the time she made payments into B. So Revolut didnt have 
anything to compare Ms Ss payments to.
The payments were not of such as size that I think they should have prompted an 
intervention from Revolut also the payments were for the most part spread out. So, I dont 
think the payments Ms S made would reasonably have triggered Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems. 
I note that the transfer to a different Revolut account did make Revolut issue a fraud 
warning. However given the size of the payment I do not think that it need to do more for this 
transaction. So, I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to step in and prevent the scam 
from taking place.
I note Ms Ss representatives arguments that Revolut had in place systems to detect the use 
of remote access software but there is no indication that Revolut detected that Ms S was 
using remote access software. So either Ms S was not using remote access software whilst 
interacting with her Revolut account or Revoluts system did not detect the use of software. 
Either way though, as Revolut were not obliged to have such a system in place I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for such a system not detecting the use of remote access 
software even if it were being used.
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have recovered the funds via other means 
however, in this complaint Revolut was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Ms 
S made in relation to this scam. Let me explain why
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
The service provided by the crypto exchange would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Ms Ss payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, it provided the service that 
was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. So, I dont think that a 
chargeback would have been successful in this instance as she received what she paid for.
In relation to the transfer, Revolut did attempt to recover the funds but they had been moved 
to a different provider and then forwarded on to a crypto exchange before Ms S reported the 
scam. So, I dont think that the funds could have been recovered via other means.
So overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Ms Ss loss but taking into consideration the 
circumstances of the complaint, I cant reasonably ask Revolut to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman