DRN-3644289
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle 
Solutions wrongly recorded adverse information about his account with credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
Mr C acquired a car by way of a Hire Agreement with Hitachi. He says he returned the car 
and paid the outstanding balance in May 2020. He says he became aware, in April 2021, 
when he tried to switch his mortgage account, that Hitachi had recorded adverse 
information about his account with credit reference agencies. He complained to Hitachi.
Hitachi investigated his complaint. It acknowledged it had incorrectly recorded an 
outstanding balance on his account with credit reference agencies. It said this was due to 
an administration error. It said it would now correct the information it had recorded and 
mark his account as settled. It apologised for what had happened and paid him £200 by 
way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a result of 
what happened.
Mr C didnt think that Hitachi had done enough to resolve his complaint. He said that 
because of the adverse information his attempt to switch his mortgage to a new provider 
had been delayed. Hitachi didnt agree. It said it had corrected the information recorded 
with credit reference agencies and this issue shouldnt impact on Mr Cs ability to obtain 
credit. It didnt offer to compensate him any further. Mr C referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. He said he was persuaded that it was likely 
Mr Cs application to switch his mortgage had been declined because of the adverse 
information Hitachi had recorded. The fixed rate on Mr Cs old mortgage was due to end 
on 1 May 2021. Hed applied to the new mortgage provider in April and it was then that he 
became aware of the adverse information. Hitachi had accepted its error and confirmed that 
it would remove the adverse information in its letter dated 3 June 2021.
Our investigator said it was hard to quantify Mr Cs reasonable loss. He thought, on balance, 
the mortgage switch had been delayed by about one month. So, he said Hitachi should pay 
Mr C the difference, for one month, between the fixed rate on the old mortgage and the 
variable rate hed had to pay his old mortgage provider. That was £444.63. Our investigator 
thought that the £200 Hitachi had paid Mr C for distress and inconvenience was fair and 
reasonable. He didnt think it should have to pay him anything further.
Hitachi responded to what our investigator said. It asked for evidence of the difference in the 
mortgage payment Mr C had paid. Our service provided this to Hitachi but Hitachi hasnt 
confirmed it accepted what our investigator said or provided any further comments.
Because Hitachi hasnt agreed with what our investigator said, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
There is no dispute that Hitachi wrongly reported adverse information about 
Mr Cs account to credit reference agencies. There is a dispute about 
whether, and to what extent, Mr C has suffered any loss as a result of that 
incorrect information.
Mr C says he became aware of the incorrect information when he tried to 
switch his mortgage. The fixed rate on his old mortgage was due to end on 
1 May 2021. He was trying to arrange a switch to a new fixed rate deal with 
a different mortgage provider. It appears he started this process in April. 
Hes provided an email from the new mortgage provider dated 30 April 2021 
which states that the application was
currently declining due to credit reference information
The new mortgage provider doesnt indicate that there is any other reason 
why the application hasnt been successful. And, having looked at Mr Cs 
credit file, the only adverse information that was appearing was the 
information which Hitachi accepts it had wrongly recorded. So, Im 
persuaded on balance, that but for the adverse information recorded by 
Hitachi, its likely the mortgage application would have been able to 
progress.
I now need to consider what loss Mr C has suffered as a result of the 
adverse information Hitachi wrongly recorded. Mr C accepts he was slow to 
apply to the new mortgage provider and it is unlikely he wouldve been able 
to switch to the new mortgage provider before 1 May. I can see that it was a 
month later, 3 June 2021, before Hitachi formally wrote to Mr C and 
confirmed it had wrongly recorded the information. After that date the new 
mortgage provider still carried out its usual application checks and that 
process appears to have taken around two months. So, I agree with our 
investigator that, taking everything into account, its fair and reasonable to 
say that the application was delayed by around one month.
Our investigator thought that the correct measure of damages was the 
difference between the fixed rate Mr C had been paying on his mortgage 
prior to 1 May 2021 and the variable rate he started to pay after that date. I 
disagree with this view. After 1 May 2021, the old fixed rate was no longer 
available. So, he was always going to have to pay the variable rate after 
that date until he switched to a new fixed rate deal.
The terms of the new fixed rate deal were very attractive. He had been 
paying £650.05 on his old fixed rate. This reverted to £1094.68 after 1 May 
2021. But, the monthly payments on the new deal he negotiated with the 
new mortgage provider were much lower  £371.08. And, after he 
switched, he started to make that reduced payment. So, Ive provisionally 
decided that the correct measure of loss here is the difference between one 
months payments on the variable rate for the old mortgage and the fixed 
rate payment on the new mortgage. That is £723.60 (being £1094.68 less 
£371.08) together with 8% simple interest on this amount from 1 July 2021 (which is the date I think, on balance, its likely he wouldve been able to 
switch had it not been for the adverse information recorded by Hitachi) to 
the date of settlement.
Ive also considered the amount of compensation which Hitachi has already 
paid to Mr C for distress and inconvenience. I can see that as soon as he 
reported this matter to it, Hitachi took action to correct the information it had 
recorded and it apologised for what had happened. In these circumstances, 
Ive provisionally decided that the £200 compensation its already paid for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to have to 
do anything further.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc trading as Hitachi 
Capital Vehicle Solutions. I intend to require it to take the following actions:
Pay Mr C £723.60 together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
from 1 July 2021 to the date of payment.
Hitachi has not responded to my provisional decision, despite having been given additional 
time.
Mr C did respond to my provisional decision. He said he was disappointed that the 
settlement figure was lower than his original estimate which he believed was conservative. 
He said he had nothing further to add.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi hasnt responded to my provisional decision or made any comments about it.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments. When he complained to our service, he estimated that his loss 
was equivalent to the additional mortgage payments hed incurred because of a delay of 
between 4-6 weeks completing his new mortgage. He also thought he should be 
compensated for approximately eight hours, at his usual hourly rate, for time spent trying to 
resolve the issue. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought it was fair and reasonable to say that 
the application for Mr Cs new mortgage was delayed by around one month. I also set out 
how I thought the correct measure of his loss for that delay should be calculated. Although 
Mr C has expressed his disappointment, he hasnt set out any further reasons why he thinks 
Hitachi should have to contribute more.
Ive also thought about what Mr C told us about his time spent trying to resolve the issue. Id 
just make clear that when considering whether to make an award for distress and 
inconvenience we take into account the impact of the businesss mistake to see if it was 
more than someone would expect to experience as part of everyday life. And, although we 
do look at the time spent trying to sort things out, we dont usually consider the consumers 
hourly rate.So, in this case when deciding on the level of compensation I had looked at what 
Mr C told us about the impact of the businesss mistake on him. As I said in my provisional 
decision, as soon as Mr C reported the matter to Hitachi, I was satisfied it took action to 
correct the information it had recorded. And, having looked at everything again, I remain of 
the view that the £200 compensation, which Hitachi has already paid to Mr C, is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I havent changed my view 
about the actions I require Hitachi to take to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions. I now require it to take the following action to 
resolve this complaint:
Pay Mr C £723.60 together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
from 1 July 2021 to the date of payment.
If Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr C it should tell him how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman