DRN-1831945
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr K responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr K was charged for the replacement of two tyres that MBFS said were beyond 
normal wear and tear. The BVRLA guidance says: All tyres  must meet minimum 
UK standards and There must be no damage to sidewalls or treads and no 
evidence of uneven wear due to over or under inflation.
Ive considered the photographs of the wear to the front tyres that MBFS charged   
Mr K for. Both tyres are significantly worn on both edges to the point where there is 
no tread across about 30% of the tyre. I think both tyres show uneven wear and are 
therefore beyond the BVRLA guidance, and chargeable.. 
I understand Mr K suggests that the collector said the tyres were fine, but I think the 
evidence suggests otherwise and regardless of whether MBFS gave Mr K a chance 
to discuss the damage with them it would always have been fairly chargeable.
So, I dont think MBFS need to waive the charges theyve applied. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman