DRN-3853949
The complaint
Miss O complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) is refusing to refund her the amount she 
lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Miss O saw a foundation (X) page on Facebook that appeared to be setup by 
people that had won a substantial amount on the lottery. As Miss O was struggling 
financially, she reached out to X for support. 
X responded to Miss O and offered to give her £100,000. Miss O was asked to setup an 
account with CryptoFXInvesting and to pay £350 into the account which she did using a 
different payment method from a different bank.
Once Miss O had made the payment, she was able to see the £100,000 had been credited 
to the CryptoFXInvesting account, although when Miss O tried to make a withdrawal, she 
was faced with having to make further payments before the funds to be released.
X told Miss O that it had her address as she had previously provided identification 
documents, and that she had to make the payments that were requested. Miss O made 
several payments as directed by X, but after speaking with a friend she realised she had 
fallen victim to a scam.
Miss O made the following payments via her Zopa Credit card:
Date Payee Amount Payment method
21 July 2022 BITCOINUK £480 Credit card
22 July 2022 BITCOINUK £480 Credit card
23 July 2022 BITCOINUK £400 Credit card
Miss O has been unable to recover any of the payments she made on her Zopa credit card.
Our Investigator considered Miss Os complaint and thought it should be upheld. Zopa 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the information available that Miss O has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The 
evidence provided by both Miss O and Zopa sets out what happened. What is in dispute is 
whether Zopa should refund the money Miss O lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss O made
Miss O made the payments into the scam via her credit card. When payments are made by 
card the only recovery option available to Zopa is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss O was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Miss O didnt 
make the card payments to X directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange. This is 
important because Zopa was only able to process chargeback claims against the merchant 
she paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchange would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Miss Os payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Miss O paid. As the 
cryptocurrency exchange provided the requested service to Miss O any chargeback attempt 
would likely fail. So, Im confident Zopa was unable to recover the funds Miss O sent into the 
scam.
Should Zopa have reasonably prevented the payments Miss O made?
Miss O has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her Zopa card, so 
the starting point here is that Miss O is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Zopa should have stepped in when Miss O was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The payments Miss O made into the scam were not high in value and were to what 
appeared to be a legitimate business. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Zopa should 
step in every time one of its customers makes a payment to a business they havent paid 
before. So, I dont think the payments themselves would have reasonably triggered Zopas 
fraud prevention systems prompting it to take any action.
Zopa has told us that it does not support payments in relation to Bitcoin and the reason 
these payments were not blocked were because BITCOINUK kept changing the name of the 
payee account tricking the VISA system. I think this is a reasonable explanation as to why 
the payments were not automatically stopped and I dont think it was unreasonable that the 
payments were processed.
However, a call took place on 21 July 2022 between Miss O and Zopa before the above 
payments were processed.Ive listened to a recording of this call. Miss O explained that she was attempting to make a 
payment to Moonpay and needed to make a deposit of £400. After a short hold the Zopa 
representative returned to the call and explained Zopa did not support payments to Bitcoin.
This call was important as Miss O had clearly explained she was intending to make a crypto 
payment from her card. Zopa specifically stop this type of payment because of the risk 
attached to them, this is even highlighted in Zopas terms and conditions. At this time, I think 
it would have been reasonable for the Zopa representative to have asked Miss O more 
about the payments she was attempting to make, and if it had I see no reason why Miss O 
would not have given details about why she was making the payments.
The circumstances behind the payments Miss O was attempting to make show clear 
characteristics of a scam. So, I think had Zopa questioned Miss O about the payments its 
likely it would have uncovered the scam and prevented Miss O incurring any loss. Zopa is 
therefore responsible for her loss.
Putting things right
Ive explained above why I think Zopa Bank Limited is responsible for Miss Os loss.
Zopa Bank Limited should refund Miss O £1,360, associated interest and charges and pay 
8% interest on payments made towards the balance arising from these payments.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Zopa Bank Limited to put things right by doing what Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman