DRN-2257405
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way Society of Lloyds has dealt with her claim.
What happened
Mrs K had an income protection policy, underwritten by Society of Lloyds, which would 
provide a benefit if she was unable to work due to sickness or injury. She bought the policy 
in April 2016. 
Mrs K had shoulder problems and had to have surgery. She made a claim in 2019 but 
Society of Lloyds declined the claim as it said Mrs Ks shoulder injury was pre-existing and 
so was excluded under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it as Society of Lloyds had relied 
on a report from a consultant who had taken Mrs Ks history from her  and she had reported 
that shed had the issues for about two years. This meant Mrs K had symptoms of shoulder 
problems before taking the policy out. And under the terms of the policy, this would be a pre-
existing medical condition, which was excluded. 
Mrs K disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
She had told the consultant shed had symptoms for about two years - this wasnt a 
specific enough time period
Society of Lloyds hasnt asked the doctor for an exact time period either 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms say Mrs K would receive a benefit if she was unable to work:
due to you becoming sick or injured or being out of work due to you becoming 
unemployed.
But this had to be: sickness which is not a pre-existing medical condition.
The policy defines pre-existing medical conditions as:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated 
symptoms, whether specifically diagnosed or not, for which medical evidence shows you 
knew about or were experiencing symptoms that you would have been aware of at the cover 
increase date or for which you sought or received advice, treatment or counselling from any 
doctor in the 12 months prior to the cover increase date and within the 24 months prior to 
commencement of claim.
In August 2017, Mrs Ks treating consultant orthopaedic surgeon wrote to her GP following 
an appointment with her and said: Shehas been having problems with her right shoulder 
dominant side for about two years duration or so.
Society of Lloyds has said this letter shows that Mrs K had symptoms of shoulder problems 
since about August 2015, and this was before she bought the policy. This meant that she 
had symptoms prior to taking the policy and so this would be classed as a pre-existing 
medical condition as defined in the policy. 
Mrs K disagreed with this and so Society of Lloyds reviewed the claim again. Mrs K said her 
medical history didnt show any problems with her shoulder and the consultants notes didnt 
specify a date but rather mentioned about two years ago. She said this wasnt specific 
enough to be relied on. 
Society of Lloyds wrote to the consultant to ask about Mrs Ks prior history and he confirmed 
the two-year timescale was based on what Mrs K had reported and this had been noted 
down. 
Although the medical evidence doesnt show any complaints to the GP prior to the policy 
being taken out, it isnt necessary for a formal diagnosis to be made. Having symptoms of 
anything associated with the problem being claimed for would be enough to exclude 
treatment under the terms of the policy. In addition, as the note refers to a discussion 
between Mrs K and the consultant, there is no reason why this wouldnt be an accurate and 
contemporaneous note made by the consultant who would only receive this information 
directly from the patient at the time of the consultation. I appreciate Mrs K says the time 
scale was an estimate, but this was based on her self-reporting and she would be in the best 
position to know how long her symptoms had been present. And so I dont think Society of 
Lloyds has unfairly or unreasonably relied on the consultants letter. 
I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed by this, but Society of Lloyds hasnt incorrectly or 
unfairly declined the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman