DRN-3489538
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PL (Barclaycard) wouldnt give her a payment 
holiday and hassled her.
What happened
Miss W had a Barclaycard. The limit was £8,500 between March 2020 and September 
2020. The balance shown on the statement in September 2020 was £8,205 debit. 
Barclaycard agreed a three-month payment holiday for April 2020 to June 2020  under the 
pandemic support scheme. During the payment holiday, Miss W made voluntary monthly 
payments of £40-£45. After the payment holiday ended on 30 June 2020, Miss W resumed 
monthly minimum payments of around £185. On 23 September 2020, Miss W asked 
Barclaycard for a further payment holiday. But Barclaycard didnt agree to that and offered a 
zero offer instead. Miss W declined this. Between 24 September 2020 and 26 September 
2020, Barclaycard called Miss W 45 times. In February 2021, Barclaycard agreed a further 
payment holiday for three months.
Miss W complained that Barclaycard wouldnt agree to a payment holiday on the same 
terms as before. She didnt want a scheme that affected her credit file. She works in the 
theatre/entertainment industry which was badly affected by the pandemic lockdowns and 
needed help. She said shed been subjected to a humiliating interrogation, the threat of a 
default and third-party involvement when she called Barclaycard; and then got a barrage of 
calls in the days after the call. She felt intimidated and upset  when she needed support.
She said she felt that way particularly as she had always made the monthly payments to 
Barclaycard, even during the payment holiday between April 2020 and June 2020.
Barclaycard said they couldnt offer a payment holiday after assessing Miss Ws income 
and expenditure. But they did offer an alternative plan. They said they called her in the 
way they did to try to ensure they were supporting customers during a difficult time.
Miss W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator thought Barclaycard acted reasonably
She said Barclaycard had to look into Miss Ws income and expenditure to understand her 
financial situation. This theyd done and decided that a payment holiday wouldnt be 
suitable. Barclaycard did offer an alternative, but the call ended without a resolution. She 
said Barclaycard called Miss W afterwards to see if they could help and because Miss W 
had told them she was in difficulty.
Miss W didnt agree. She said shed always stayed within her credit limit and kept up with 
the payments. The barrage of calls from Barclaycard  15 in five minutes at one stage  
amounted to harassment. This was particularly so during the pandemic in what was already 
a difficult and unprecedented situation for her and her industry. Miss W asked that an 
ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Miss W had a payment holiday between April 2020 and June 2020  this was in line with the
pandemic support scheme, and its helpful if I set out what that was.
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Barclaycard, had to make available payment holidays on many credit agreements, 
including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a 
total of two payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be 
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although 
interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the 
end of October 2020.
And so  this was the support that Miss W got between April 2020 and June 2020. She 
didnt need to make any payments. But I can see that she did  between £40 and £45 a 
month. After the payment holiday ended, Miss W resumed the normal monthly payments  
at around £185 per month. But  the entertainment sector in which she worked was (as we 
know) badly affected by the pandemic - and she had zero income. So  she called 
Barclaycard on 23 September 2020 and asked for another payment holiday.
At this point its important to say that lenders didnt have to agree to a payment holiday if 
they didnt think it was in a customers best interest  for example, if there wasnt a 
realistic chance of them returning to work at the end of the three month period, or if there 
was a concern about their long term ability to repay.
Ive listened to the call on 23 September 2020  and Miss W said her monthly income was
£1,200 (universal credit) and her outgoings were around £1,800 a month (rent plus 
utilities). And  she said it was unlikely that she would be able to return to work in the next 
three months. She said it was more likely to be another six months. And so  I cant say 
that Barclaycards decision to decline Miss Ws request for a payment holiday was wrong; 
because they couldnt foresee a reasonable time by when things would improve. I havent 
looked at Barclaycards decision to agree to a payment holiday later on, in February 2021 
 as thats not part of Miss Ws complaint  but I think its probable that by that time, it was 
more likely that Miss W could say she could return to work after a further three months.
Ive then gone on to consider how Barclaycard interacted with Miss W on the call on 23 
September 2020 and in the subsequent days. It was clear on the call that Miss W was 
concerned about her situation  she had no income and no certainty of when that would 
change. But also  she had met all her commitments with Barclaycard, and she also told 
them she was up to date with her other debts. It was part of Barclaycards process to go 
through an income and expenditure form with Miss W  so they could understand her 
financial situation and decide what was their recommended solution for her  I understand 
that.
But also  I have to say that I found the call handler showed little empathy with Miss Ws 
situation; and didnt explain why she needed to complete the income and expenditure form, 
nor did she clearly describe what the options were for Miss W. If I can say - it was very 
mechanical. And when Barclaycards system declined the request for a payment holiday  
there wasnt any explanation of why that was, or what it meant for Miss W - other than 
your expenditure is more than your income  and the system had declined her request. 
The call handler then read out the terms of the zero offer  which was to cancel the card; 
make a minimum payment of £180 after 60 days  or if not a default would be registered. 
The call handler said there was the possibility of the involvement of a third party (i.e. a debt 
collection agency). It was at that stage that Miss W became upset and said she didnt want 
to proceed with that option and ended the call. I think the call couldve been handled in a 
more empathic manner  and if it had, a better outcome may have been reached.
Miss W has said that she was then subjected to harassment after the call. We asked 
Barclaycard for their call logs. It shows that they called Miss W 45 times between 24 September 2020 and 26 September 2020. This included 22 calls on 24 September 2020, 
the day after Miss Ws call with Barclaycard. We asked Barclaycard about these calls  and 
they told us they made them because they were concerned about Miss Ws well-being; 
because she was upset at the end of the call and she said she was in financial difficulty. 
So, I must balance Barclaycards stated intention with what was clearly the effect on Miss 
W. And I have to say that I cant accept that the number of calls made by Barclaycard could 
be seen as helpful in the way they were intended  and I can see how distressing they 
must have been for Miss W in her situation. Barclaycard have told us theyve considered 
what happened and have given feedback to the appropriate area of the bank. But - I 
cannot see how they were justified.
I also noted that Barclaycards final response didnt explain why the payment holiday 
request was declined, or why the volume of calls took place  it wouldve been helpful if it 
had.
We asked Barclaycard whether any markers were added to Miss Ws credit file (i.e. with 
credit reference agencies) at any time during the period in question  and they showed us 
that Miss Ws account was not adversely affected. Her credit file is shown as OK from 
October 2019 to December 2021  the period we asked to see.
I can appreciate why Barclaycard took the decision they did  to decline Miss Ws request 
for a payment holiday. But, on balance, the cumulative effect of the way that the call was 
handled, and the subsequent outbound calls - caused a lot of upset for Miss W. And for this 
reason, I dont think Barclaycard acted reasonably in the circumstances of Miss Ws case. I 
can see that there was a significant amount of stress and inconvenience for Miss W
 and I think that Barclaycard should pay compensation of £200.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Barclaycard and Miss W accepted my findings.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Barclaycard and Miss W accepted my findings, I wont be departing from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as
Barclaycard must :
Pay Miss W £200 for stress and inconvenience. In responding to this final decision, 
Miss W should state how she wants this to be paid  to her Barclaycard account or 
her bank account. If the latter, please provide the details.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman