DRN-2071068
The complaint
Miss A complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled her request to replace her damaged 
debit card. She explains that she was inconvenienced and without her card when she was 
due to travel.  
What happened
On 21 June 2019, Miss A phoned TSB to report a problem with her card. She said its chip 
and PIN function had stopped working. Miss A thought that the card had been reported as 
damaged, so the contactless function would still work whilst she waited for the replacement. 
The card was actually reported as stolen, which cancelled all of its functionality. During the 
call, it came to light that the bank had Miss As previous address on its card system. The 
operative told Miss A her address had been updated and it would take an extra day for the 
new card to be delivered to her correct address. Unfortunately, the information the operative 
had given about the timescales was incorrect. The replacement card was still sent to 
Miss As previous address. 
On 3 July 2019, Miss A phoned the bank to chase up her replacement card as she hadnt 
received anything. Miss A explains that she went into branch as she had been waiting for the 
replacement card for a long time and was concerned as she was due to go on holiday. 
Whilst in the branch, Miss A discovered her address hadnt been updated on the banks card 
system. The replacement card which was sent to the wrong address was then blocked. 
Miss A says the branch staff told her that she needed to phone another department within 
the bank to ensure her address had been changed before another replacement card could 
be issued.
On 5 July 2019, Miss A phoned the bank again and was able to successfully change her 
address. During this call she also ordered a replacement card for a second account she held 
with TSB. TSB had blocked both of the cards but had not been able to replace them due to 
the problem with Miss As address in its records. TSB has explained that ordering new cards 
for both accounts after they had been blocked generated the production of new PIN 
numbers. 
On 10 July 2019, Miss A had cause to phone the bank again. She explained shed received 
three cards in relation to her two accounts and didnt know which ones were active and 
which should be destroyed. TSB apologised to Miss A about the errors. Initially it offered her 
£50 compensation and £21 to cover her expenses, which consisted of £12 to cover her call 
costs and £9 to cover her travel costs to the branch. Miss A didnt think this went far enough 
to recognise the frustration the banks mistakes had caused. She pointed out the 
embarrassment of having her card decline when trying to pay and the difficulty she was 
having trying to return an item to a shop without a working card and PIN. She made a 
complaint. She pointed out that shed never wanted a new PIN, and it was now unlikely that 
shed receive the replacement PIN in time for her holiday. 
TSB issued its final response on 11 July 2019. It revised its position and instead offered 
Miss A £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, along with £17 to 
cover her expenses. Miss A then referred her complaint about the way things had been 
handled to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought it would be fair for TSB to pay a further £108, making a total of £150 to cover her 
expenses and acknowledge the inconvenience she had experienced. He highlighted the 
bank had not correctly updated Miss As address at the earliest opportunity and had given 
her incorrect information about the time scales for a replacement card to arrive. 
Miss A was happy with the investigators recommendation, but TSB didnt agree. It thought 
its offer of £42 was sufficient in the circumstances. It said Miss A had access to the debit 
card on her second account and that she could have used her online banking to transfer 
funds between accounts. 
Our investigator was not minded to change his view. He thought TSBs comments about the 
second account didnt change the situation. He pointed out that TSB hadnt clearly explained 
why it felt its revised award was fair. TSB said its decision remained the same. As no 
agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators recommendation in terms of increased 
compensation. From what I have seen, I think a total of payment of £150 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, banks can and do make mistakes from time to time. The staff member Miss A 
initially spoke to recorded her card as being stolen instead of damaged. This administrative 
error was compounded when the replacement card was sent to Miss As previous address. 
This meant Miss A had to contact the bank again to follow the matter up. She was then given 
incorrect information about how to change her address. When the bank updated Miss As 
address, it had to issue a new PIN alongside the replacement card, which wasnt something 
Miss A had initially required. As a result, Miss A would then be required to either memorise a 
new PIN when it arrived or take further action to change the PIN to a memorable number. 
The card for Miss As second account was also replaced around the same time, causing her 
further confusion when multiple cards arrived. 
Its clear there were some failings on the part of TSB here. What should have been a quick 
phone call and a short wait for a replacement card spiralled into multiple new cards, a new 
PIN and the need for Miss A to contact TSB in relation to the matter many times before 
things were finally sorted out. 
Not everything that goes wrong warrants a monetary award for compensation. Our awards 
arent intended to fine or punish a financial business, but to make good any financial loss 
and to recognise any material distress or inconvenience thats been caused by the difficulties 
encountered. 
TSB broadly agrees that Miss A received poor service and was put to some inconvenience. 
It has already offered her some compensation, along with money to cover the expenses it 
agrees she incurred. So I have to think about whether what TSB has done is enough to 
cover her reasonable costs and make up for the poor customer service she received when 
replacing her damaged debit card. Initially TSB offered Miss A £50 to recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been 
caused, along with £25 to cover her costs. When calculating her costs, TSB took into 
account two hours of phone calls and the potential for two trips to the branch using public 
transport. But it later revised its offer of compensation down to £25 and its offer to cover her 
call and travel expenses to £17. TSB has not explained clearly why it considers the impact of 
its mistakes on Miss A to have lessened upon review. And Ive no reason to think the 
amounts TSB initially worked out for phone call and travel costs were wrong. They seem 
reasonable to me. 
Assessing compensation for non-financial losses such as distress and inconvenience isnt 
an exact science. Theres no set award for each individual error a business makes. To work 
out what would be fair compensation overall, I look at everything that has happened and how 
it impacted Miss A.
From looking at the copy bank statements TSB has provided, I can appreciate that it would 
have been inconvenient for Miss A to not have a working debit card. She uses her card most 
days for day to day spending. TSB has pointed out Miss A has another account and she 
could have used her online banking to transfer money whilst waiting for her replacement 
card. But Miss A has pointed out the way the bank handled matters during this time caused 
her a lot of hassle that wasnt so easy to work around. Shes explained she wasnt able to 
return a retail purchase shed made for a refund without her card and PIN. Shes explained 
that she thought she would be able to use the card to make contactless payments in the 
interim but only discovered she was unable to when an attempted transaction was declined, 
which was embarrassing. Shes also explained that she had to wait for a new PIN when she 
finally received the replacement card, which was only required as TSB had incorrectly 
recorded her card as being stolen. 
TSB has not disputed that Miss A spent longer than she needed to on the phone trying to get 
to the bottom of the matter, nor does it disagree that it gave her the wrong information about 
how to change her address, which meant she had to take steps to contact a different 
department. This turned out to be unnecessary running on Miss As part as the bank accepts 
it ought to have been able to change her address in the branch and without the need for her 
to make a further phone call. Miss As bank statements show that she had four different 
cards in use across her two accounts at the relevant time. Whilst I accept the banks point 
that the number of days where Miss A would not have been able to use a card linked to 
either one of those accounts was likely to be small, I am also persuaded by what Miss A has 
said about finding it confusing when multiple cards arrived at the same time. 
Looking at everything, its clear Miss A has been caused some frustration and put to more 
trouble than was necessary when trying to sort things out. I can see why our investigator felt 
TSB should increase its compensation. In my view, a further payment of £108, making a 
total payment of £150 overall, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
To resolve the matter, I direct TSB Bank plc to pay Miss A a further £108 in addition to the 
£42 it has previously paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Claire MarshOmbudsman