DRN-3810972
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that QBE UK Limited (QBE) unfairly declined 
a claim made against its Commercial Combined Insurance policy.
Mr D, who is a director or R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
 R took out a Commercial Combined Insurance Policy with QBE. 
In April 2019 there was an accident at Rs premises when a customer (claimant) fell through 
an open doorway down a flight of stairs. An accident log was completed by Rs member of 
staff in its incident book.
In May 2019, the claimant instructed a solicitor who wrote to R, informing it that they had 
been instructed to act on the claimants behalf in this matter. The solicitor requested CCTV 
footage of the date and time of the accident. A further email was sent by another solicitor 
instructed by the claimant in December 2021. 
In February 2022, R notified QBE of the claim. QBE asked R why there was a delay in 
notifying them about the incident when it happened in 2019. R said its because the claimant 
hadnt notified it of a claim otherwise it would have informed QBE sooner. R also said, if it 
was to report all incidents which took place at its premises, QBE would be inundated with 
try-on claims. R said that by doing so, its premium would also increase. 
R said that it received a letter of claim from the claimants solicitor in February 2022 and 
immediately forwarded it to QBE. 
QBE said the claim wasnt covered because R didnt notify them of the claim sooner. QBE 
referred R to the terms and conditions in the policy, specifically conditions precedent 24.5 
which says that the insured must notify the insurer as soon as reasonably practicable of any 
incident which could give rise to claim. QBE therefore said Rs failure to report the accident 
was a breach of the policy terms and conditions. 
Furthermore, QBE said the delay in reporting the claim prejudiced their position because R 
no longer employed the same staff as at the time of the incident and therefore, they were 
unable to obtain witness statements about the incident. The CCTV footage was also no 
longer available. QBE said had they been informed of the claim sooner, they could have 
made an informed decision about defending the claim. QBE also said they requested further 
information from R such as the log of repairs to the steps and lights, records to confirm the 
programme was carried out and risk assessment of stairs, but they didnt receive anything.  
R said it did not receive a letter from the claimants solicitor in May 2019 or an email in 
December 2021. R says it was first made aware of the claim in February 2022 and it notified 
QBE without delay. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, she said irrespective of the 
claimant not making a claim, R should have acted sooner in notifying QBE of the incident. By 
not doing so, it didnt follow the policy terms and conditions and also prejudiced QBEs 
position in investigating the claim. She therefore concluded that QBE fairly and reasonably 
declined Rs claim. 
R didnt agree with our investigator. In its response, R said it believes the claimant didnt 
follow the claim up sooner on purpose as a delay tactic to ensure the evidence was no 
longer available. As result it believes that its position has also been prejudiced. 
R said there was no evidence that the claimants solicitor made contact about the claim in 
May 2019 or in December 2021. R said that it wasnt notified of a potential claim by the 
claimant sooner which is why it didnt notify QBE of the incident. R also said another reason 
it didnt report the incident was because the claimant admitted she was running down the 
stairs when she fell and so the accident was confirmed to be her fault.
R said if it reported every incident that occurred at its premises, even those that didnt result 
in a claim, its premium would be impacted at renewal. 
Our investigator thought about what R said but it didnt change her opinion. R didnt agree 
with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Rs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether QBE has acted fairly 
and reasonably. 
Ive read and carefully considered everything R and QBE has said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by R, and QBE, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for QBE to decline Ws claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions including the condition precedent 
that QBE has relied on. 
The policy terms and conditions which QBE had relied on to reject Rs claim states: 
Conditions precedent
24.5 Claim notification - Sections 17 and 18 (Employers Liability and Public, 
Products and Pollution Liability)
24.5.1 The insured must give notice to the insurer in writing to the claim notification 
address specified in the schedule within the following periods:
a) as soon as reasonably practicable after the occurrence of any incident, accident, 
personal or bodily injury, damage, exposure, loss or other occurrence which may 
give rise to a claim under these sections;
b) as soon as reasonably practicable but not later than seven (7) days after receipt of: i) any claim or of any notice of an intention to make a claim; ii) notice of any 
impending prosecution, inquest, fatal accident inquiry or other legal proceedings; 
which in each case may relate to or give rise to a claim under these sections;
The policy also states the following: 
24 How to Claim
24.1 Compliance with this section is essential
24.1.1 This section applies to the whole policy.
24.1.2 Following any state of affairs which may give rise to a claim under the policy, 
the insured must comply with the requirements set out in this section.
24.1.3 Compliance with each and every one of the requirements of the clauses under 
the heading Conditions Precedent in this section is a condition precedent to the 
insurers liability in respect of a claim under the policy. Unless the insured can 
demonstrate that any non-compliance with the requirements of these clauses has 
caused no prejudice to the insurer in relation to a claim under the policy, the insurer 
will have no liability for such claim.
QBE has said that the claimant reported the incident to R which is why an entry was made in 
its accident book in April 2019. They also believe that a letter of claim was sent by the 
claimants solicitor to R in May 2019, December 2021 and February 2022. QBE says that 
although R was aware of the matter it didnt report it to them until February 2022 (almost 3 
years after the incident occurred). QBE concluded that this was in contravention of the policy 
terms as stated above and therefore they declined to provide cover.  
R says it didnt receive the letter dated 9 May 2019 and email of 21 December 2021. It says 
the time it was made aware was when a letter of claim was received in February 2022 when 
it notified QBE.
I have seen a copy of the correspondences referred to above. I note that the 
correspondence address on the letters sent in May 2019 and February 2022 were the same, 
however R received only the latter. I also had a look at Rs website and note the address the 
letters and email were sent to were as per its contact details on the website. Theres no 
evidence that any of these documents were returned undelivered and Im not aware of any 
other reason why R wouldnt have received them. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
its more likely than not that the correspondences were sent to R. 
Even if I were to accept that R didnt see the correspondences, its still a fact that the 
claimant did make R aware of the incident in May 2019 which is why it made an entry in its 
accident book. I therefore believe that R was aware of the incident prior to February 2022. 
Irrespective of whether or not a letter of claim had been received sooner, conditions precent 
24.5 says that R must notify QBE as soon as reasonably practicable of any incident, 
accident, personal or bodily injury which could give rise to claim. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen Im not persuaded that R did do this. 
R says that it didnt report the incident to QBE because it didnt receive a letter of claim until 
February 2022 and also based on the circumstances of what happened it thought the 
claimant was at fault. I dont think its reasonable for R to decide that it wont make QBE 
aware of certain incidents because it might not give rise to a claim, because it simply cant 
know. As a result of not informing QBE of the incident, I believe R breached its policy terms 
and conditions.  
In QBEs final response letter, it also referred R to the below policy term:24.10 Insureds duties
24.10.1 In respect of all sections, for each and every claim or notification the insured 
and any person acting on behalf of the insured must (before and after notification):
d) give all such information, co-operation and assistance, and forward all documents 
and any other information as requested to enable the insurer to investigate, settle or 
resist any claim, as the insurer may reasonably require;
e) provide such proofs and information with respect to the claim as may reasonably 
be required together with (if demanded) a statutory declaration of the truth of the 
claim and any matters connected therewith;
QBE said that if they had access to the CCTV footage, been able to discuss the incident with 
the team member who assisted the claimant at the time of the incident and the additional 
information regarding the stairs, they could have made an informed decision with regards to 
defending the claim. QBE concluded that due to the late notification of the claim their 
position had been prejudiced because it wasnt able to obtain enough evidence about the 
incident. I dont think it was unreasonable for QBE to conclude that given the time that had 
passed, they wouldnt be in a position to gather enough evidence. On that basis, I dont think 
they acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on the late notification clause to turn down Rs 
claim.
R also said that if it informed QBE of all incidents then its premium would increase as a 
result. We often find that a claim or notification itself  regardless of whos at fault  may 
affect the premium, but that depends on the insurers risk factors to determine which risks 
theyre willing to accept and whether it will attract a higher premium. The approach of one 
insurer may differ from another but, the insurer is entitled to ask for information on all 
incidents so it can assess the risk it is covering when it comes to renewal, this is normal 
practice in insurance and I dont find it unreasonable. I note that R believes this isnt a 
genuine claim and is it wasnt required to notify QBE unless a claim was made, but this does 
not discharge it of its obligations to QBE under the terms of its insurance contract which is to 
report any matter whether or not it led to claim. 
In Rs complaint letter it has referred to the actions of the claimant being a delay tactic to 
ensure the evidence was no longer available. I appreciate why R may feel this way but, as 
the policyholder, it was Rs responsibility to report the claim to QBE sooner, irrespective of 
the claimants actions in the claim. Had it done so QBE would have the opportunity to 
investigate the claim further. And so, I dont think its reasonable for R to say the delay was 
caused by the claimants actions. 
Overall, I dont consider that QBE treated R unfairly or unreasonably
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman