DRN-2442691
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bode Insurance Solutions Limited mis-sold him a tenants contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A rented a house in March 2019. He says the letting agent told him that he had to take 
out tenants contents insurance as a condition of the rental. Mr A says the letting agent told 
him this would cover him for any damages while he was renting the house. He also says the 
agent set up the policy for him. 
Mr A moved out of the property in March 2020. The landlord arranged a checkout report, 
including an inventory check. This report listed various costs the landlord held Mr A liable for, 
totalling £855. Mr A challenged this, and the matter went to adjudication. In May 2020, the 
independent adjudicator determined Mr A owed the landlord £521.50 for the following: 
cleaning £144 
garden maintenance £90
missing items £100 
redecoration £100
replacement blinds £87.50
Mr A asked Bode how to make a claim under his contents insurance and whether it would be 
worth his while. Bode explained that the costs claimed by his landlord were either not 
covered by his policy or less than the policy excess. Mr A was unhappy with this and 
complained to Bode.
Bode rejected Mr As complaint. It was satisfied it had provided all information about the 
insurance policy to Mr A in a clear, fair, and not misleading manner. It also explained that the 
policy had been sold on a non-advised basis, so it was Mr As responsibility to make sure the 
policy was right for him. After a further conversation with Mr A, Bode offered to refund his 
premiums in full, plus interest, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr A didnt accept the offer. He is upset that his policy didnt cover what the letting agent told 
him so wants Bode to cover his post-tenancy costs in full. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator explained that he was only able to consider Mr As complaint against the 
insurance broker, Bode, for the way the policy was sold but couldnt look at the actions of the 
letting agent. And he didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld because he 
didnt think Bode had done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr A is unhappy with the actions of the letting agent. But, as our 
investigator explained, the letting agent isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority so 
doesnt fall under this services jurisdiction. We can only consider the actions of Bode as 
insurance broker and decide whether it acted fairly and reasonably.
Bode says its records show Mr A applied for the policy via its website on 1 April 2019. Mr A 
says the letting agent arranged the policy for him. Ive considered this point.
Bodes records contain an automated email, timestamped 15:37 on 1 April 2019, with Mr As 
original application form. The application form includes the letting agents name and branch 
details, suggesting the application was submitted by the letting agent. I can also see that the 
letting agent currently promotes Bode on its website and provides a link to Bodes online 
insurance quotation platform. Bode also told Mr A that the letting agent was its appointed 
representative. Given the evidence, I think its most likely the letting agent completed the 
online form on Mr As behalf.
However, Bodes records also show that the policy documents were sent to Mr As personal 
email on 2 April 2019. The documents included a tenants insurance schedule, the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID), a Statement of Insurance, and the insurance 
providers policy booklet. 
Bode sold Mr As policy on a non-advised basis. This means that it wasnt recommending 
the policy. Instead, Bodes responsibility during the sales process was to make sure it 
provided enough information about the policy so that it was clear, fair and not misleading, 
allowing Mr A to make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for him. 
Ive reviewed the email and policy documents Bode sent to Mr A. Im satisfied these were 
clear. The cover email explained that you have not received advice or a recommendation 
about the suitability of the policy and asked Mr A to read the documents carefully.
The policy booklet defines the excess as The amount you will have to pay towards each 
separate claim (page 7) and says this is £100 (page 9). Mr As insurance schedule says, A 
£100 excess applies to all claims. The policy booklet also sets out what is and isnt covered.
Given Mr As description of his conversation with the letting agent, I understand why he 
might have expected the policy to cover him for any costs following his tenancy. However, 
that doesnt mean he didnt have to read the policy documents and check the policy was 
suitable for him. This means Im satisfied Bode acted fairly when it sold Mr A the policy.
Ive also considered Bodes reply to Mr As email query about making a claim. The only 
itemised cost that was more than the excess was the cleaning quote, and I dont think Mr As 
policy would have covered this. So Im also satisfied that Bode was correct when it told him 
the policy was unlikely to cover the costs to his landlord.
Bode spoke to Mr A on 7 July. Following this conversation, it offered to cancel his policy and 
refund his premiums, plus 8% interest. This amounted to £198.03. Bode told us this offer 
was a gesture of goodwill. In the circumstances, I think this was reasonable. But, given the 
evidence, I dont think Bode has done anything wrong and I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I leave it to Mr A to decide if he wants to accept Bode Insurance Solutions Limiteds offer to refund his insurance premiums.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman