DRN-2217322
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) didnt properly tell 
him about a policy exclusion on his motorcycle insurance at the time he renewed his policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted his insurer to claim for his motorcycle which had been stolen. The insurer 
refused his claim on the basis his motorcycle wasnt parked in a garage at the time it was 
taken. Mr B said he hadnt been told about exclusions which applied to his policy and so he 
complained to Adrian Flux who acted as broker for his insurance policy.
 
Adrian Flux didnt agree. They said Mr Bs cover had originally started through them in 2013 
and was always based on the motorcycle being kept in a locked garage when not in use. 
Adrian Flux explained they issued renewal documentation on this basis, which confirmed 
that if the motorcycle was not kept in a locked garage overnight, the insurer may not 
indemnify any claim. So they didnt uphold the complaint.
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and felt that Adrian Flux had told Mr B about the 
relevant policy exclusion and, therefore, they hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint and which havent previously been dealt 
with by our service. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Adrian Flux have acted as a broker here in arranging Mr Bs motorcycle insurance. Its 
important in such arrangements for brokers to make sure consumers are clearly and 
properly advised about key information. What Im considering here is whether Adrian Flux 
told Mr B about the particular policy exclusion which led to his claim being refused by the 
insurer. In this case, it relates to the exclusion concerning a theft when the motorcycle is not 
garaged.     
I can see that policy renewal documentation was sent out to Mr B in February 2016, this 
asked Mr B to check the enclosed Summary of Cover and Statement of Facts carefully and 
let Adrian Flux know if any information is incorrect. It also asked Mr B to take reasonable 
care to check the information is, to the best of his knowledge, correct. And, if the information 
isnt correct, Mr Bs policy may be cancelled, or his claim rejected or not fully paid. In the 
Statement of Fact section, under a question which asks where the vehicle is normally kept at 
night, it says Garaged. In the Summary of Cover section, there is a statement which says if 
the vehicle is not kept in a locked garage at the specified address, the insurer may not 
indemnify any claim. It then refers to the policy schedule for full details.  
After receiving the renewal invitation, Mr B phoned Adrian Flux and Ive listened to this call. 
During the call, Mr B is asked Do you still keep the vehicle garaged?. Mr B responds by 
saying correct. He also confirmed he had received the renewal documentation and was 
happy with the terms and conditions to renew it. Adrian Flux explained the policy had been 
renewed and explained new policy documents would be sent out to Mr B. Adrian Flux also 
asked Mr B to double check the documents when received and let them know of any errors. 
In light of this, I think Adrian Flux did enough to bring the policy exclusion to Mr Bs attention 
and it was reasonable for them to be satisfied that Mr B understood this given the 
assurances he gave during the renewal call. 
Ive looked at the policy schedule and this sets out a number of exclusions, one of the 
exclusions under Excluding theft when not garaged says the following. 
We will not pay any claim under Section 2 for loss or damage by theft or attempted 
theft when the insured motorcycle is parked at the insureds permanent place of 
residence and/or the declared garaging address, unless the motorcycle is kept in a 
properly constructed and locked garage.   
Taking the above into account, I believe Mr B was properly informed about the policy 
exclusion relating to the consequence of his vehicle not being garaged when at home. 
I can see that Mr B says he didnt receive the policy schedule but Ive seen a letter sent to 
Mr B in March 2016 which enclosed his insurance certificate and also referred to a schedule 
which was attached. On this basis, I think it was sent and did give Mr B a clear explanation 
about this particular exclusion. If Mr B didnt receive this then I think its reasonable to have 
expected him to get in touch with his insurer to check that he was insured and get a further 
copy sent to him. Even so, as Adrian Flux has explained, this was a requirement which has 
been in Mr Bs policy from the first year he took out insurance through them.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman