DRN-4096136
The complaint
Mr T complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) provided him with a 
loan without carrying out adequate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr T was granted one loan by Shelby on 19 August 2022 for £300. Based on the statement 
of account Mr T was due to make six monthly repayments of £96.30. Mr T has had some 
problems repaying the loan and an outstanding balance remains. 
Shelby considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan based on proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response, Mr T referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before the loan was approved which demonstrated Mr T 
could afford his repayments. 
Mr T didnt agree saying at the time he had a poor credit score, two missed payments within 
the last six months and a total of five defaults. Mr T provided a screen shot of his credit file to 
support this. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ts income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
applied in Mr Ts complaint.
 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr T for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,290 per month. Shelby also says this amount was cross referenced 
with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. 
Mr T declared monthly outgoings of £1,399. However, as part of the application, Shelby 
overlaid what Mr T had declared about his expenditure with data from two different 
sources. Firstly, it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, it used 
information from Mr Ts credit search (which Ill go into in more detail below). And having 
done so, Shelby made an adjustment to his living costs. 
It increased Mr Ts outgoings to £1,663 each month, which still left £627 to enable Mr T to 
make the repayment of around £96. Based solely, on this data the loan looked affordable. 
Before the loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr T was having immediate financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were no insolvency markers, or debt management plans. There also wasnt anything 
within the results that indicated Mr T was reliant on these sorts of loans. And while the 
results did show some defaults, these had all been recorded more than 12 months before 
the loan was advanced. 
I accept the screen shots that Mr T provided show missed payments within the months 
leading up the loan being approved, but that didnt appear to have been reflected in the 
information Shelby asked for and received from the credit reference agency. And as I think it 
was reasonable for Shelby to have relied on the results, its checks didnt need to go further. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Shelby to believe that it needed to go further with its checks, such as verifying the information Mr T had provided by reviewing his bank statements. It wouldve been 
disproportionate for Shelby to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have relied on the 
information Mr T gave about his income and expenditure which showed he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Mr T was having financial difficulties or the loan would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
An outstanding balance remains due, and I would remind Shelbys obligation to treat Mr T 
fairly and forbearance if he needs assistance in repaying the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman