DRN-4502743
The complaint
Mr V complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Mr V in October 2022 decided to invest his money using the services of 
someone who had approached him on a social media platform. The individual informed Mr V 
that they traded for people in Forex who have little or no knowledge in forex trading. That 
they had three analysts who analyse the market and then its brokers will place trades on 
behalf of their clients. 
After the individual provided Mr V with information about how the investing worked, Mr V was 
persuaded it would be worth investing his money with them.
Unfortunately, the individual that had contacted Mr V was a fraudster. Mr V made payments 
to the details given to him by the individual (whom he believed was a broker placing the 
trades). Mr V was told that an investment of £250- £350 could earn approximately £6,540+ 
and the process took only two to three hours and so, any returns would be received the 
same day. 
Mr V initially made a payment of £250 from an account he held with a different bank. He then 
made two payments from his Monzo account totalling £2,750. The first payment made on 
23 October 2022 for £1,500 was for what Mr V believed was a liquidation fee to receive his 
money. He then made a payment of £1,250 on 24 October 2022 for what he believed was a 
further fee after his returns had increased in amount. 
Mr V was then asked for a further payment at which point he realised hed fallen victim of a 
scam and, he contacted Monzo to let it know.
Mr V reported the matter to Monzo on 26 October 2022. Monzo didnt consider it was liable 
for the losses Mr V incurred  it didnt feel Mr V took reasonable steps to check who he was 
paying. Monzo also reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank where the payments were 
sent to) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Unfortunately, Monzo received 
a response advising that no funds remained. However, it did credit Mr V account with a 
£25.00 gesture of goodwill in recognition that his complaint ought to have been 
acknowledged sooner than it was. 
Unhappy, Mr V brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ultimately the Investigator explained the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) which Monzo adheres to the principles of, 
was applicable to the payments Mr V made. She explained that the CRM Code is a voluntary 
code which requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
While the payments were covered by the CRM Code, our Investigator considered 
Monzo had fairly applied an exception to reimbursement  namely that Mr V didnt have a 
reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. And given the value of the payments 
she didnt think Monzo needed to provide an effective warning as part of the payment 
process. Our Investigator was also satisfied that had Monzo contacted the receiving bank as 
soon as it was aware of the scam that it wouldnt have made a difference in this case to the 
recovery of Mr Vs funds. This was because she was mindful Mr V reported the scam to 
Monzo two days after the last payment was made  and so, she was persuaded on balance, 
that it was more likely that the money was moved as soon as it was received as is often the 
case. 
As Mr V disagreed with the Investigators opinion and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr V authorised these payments.
However, under the CRM code, a firm is expected to reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an APP scam, like Mr V. Monzo hasnt signed up to the code, but it has agreed to 
follow its provisions. There are a limited set of circumstances set out in the code in which a 
firm can choose not to reimburse its customer. One such circumstance (and the most 
relevant in this case) is where it can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments 
without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
The payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
The payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
The person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Monzo says it wont refund Mr Vs losses because it didnt think he had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments - that he didnt take reasonable steps to check 
who he was paying. Ive considered that point carefully and I agree with that conclusion. I will 
now set out my reasons why. 
Mr V was approached by an unknown individual via a social media platform and asked if he 
was interested in investing money. From the messages Ive seen between Mr V and the 
individual, Mr V himself expressed that he was dubious from the outset of the conversation. 
While I note the individual he was messaging explained how the investing would work and 
what approximately he could earn from a small investment of £250 - £350, Ive not seen that 
any evidence or information was provided that satisfied Mr V that the person he was 
speaking with was who they said they were or that they were providing genuine goods or 
services, prior to him proceeding to make the payments. I do recognise Mr V in his response to our Investigator has raised that he had no knowledge 
of trading, nor did he have any understanding of how fraud works and so how would he 
know he was being scammed. But Im persuaded Mr V comments about his lack of 
knowledge ought fairly and reasonably to have prompted him to question what he was being 
told. Mr V has said he was reassured by the photos he was sent of the money waiting to be 
paid to him. However, I think there were flags that ought to have prompted Mr V to proceed 
with more caution than he did, which I will go on to explain. 
I think what Mr V was told about the approximate profits/return on his investment was 
unrealistic. He was told for an investment of £250-£350 he could expect to earn around 
£6,540+ and that the process took around two to three hours with returns received the same 
day. I also note in the messages with the individual that Mr V was told that it was 100% safe 
and legitimate and guaranteed to make a profit. I think Mr V ought to have treated what he 
was being told about the investment with more caution  especially when taking into account 
that Im persuaded Mr V himself recognised what he was being told was too good to be true 
as indicated by his comments in the messages Ive seen. It appears Mr V simply accepted 
and took what he was being told by an individual hed never met at face value, when 
reasonably I think what he was being told should have caused concern.
Im further mindful that Mr V was asked to make payments to an individual he was told was a 
broker. Ive not seen any information that shows Mr V, prior to making the payments, asked 
any questions or took any steps to verify that the person he was making a payment to was in 
fact who he was being told he was paying  that they were indeed a broker for the company 
or connected to the person he believed he was speaking with. It follows that, I think this 
wouldve been reasonable grounds for suspicion, but as far as I can see, Mr V didnt 
question this with the fraudster until after hed made the payments.
In this case, Mr V was told hed earned around £9,935 after he made his initial payment of 
£250 from an account he held with a different bank. It was around this point that he was sent 
a chart for what he was told showed how the trade was doing and he commented in the 
messages to the individual that he kept expecting the profile to disappear. This suggests to 
me that Mr V wasnt satisfied that who he was speaking to was legitimate. 
Mr V was then told that his profits had further increased to £19,870.98 and he agreed to 
close the trade on this amount. He was asked to make a payment of £1,500 for a liquidation 
fee on the trade which he proceeded to make. Yet, Mr V was then told his profits had 
increased to £30,08.03 and told hed need to make a further payment of £1,250 to receive 
the increase amount. I am aware Mr V did question this in the messages with the individual 
and that he was told yea because trades are done randomly once you get started in this 
system thats how this works... I dont think what Mr V was told plausibly made sense and 
again, Im persuaded Mr V concerns remained as he commented he was nervous he was 
getting scammed out of money. 
While Mr V appears to have initially refused to send the further payment of £1,250 and 
requested information from the individual such as proof of the funds that will be sent to him 
and an explanation as to how the money has risen, I cant see that this information was 
provided before Mr V proceeded to make the payment. He did receive what appeared to be 
an email sent to the individual he was in contact with, from whom they said was from one of 
the heads of department in charge of taxes, confirming the profit hed made but Mr V himself 
commented that the email sent had really bad English. Im persuaded Mr V ought to have 
had concerns about everything he was being told and acted more cautiously. I can see after 
he made the payments Mr V told the individual that hed checked and he didnt need to pay 
money to release the funds. With this in mind, Im persuaded that Mr V could have and ought 
fairly and reasonably to have carried out such checks prior to making the payments. With all things considered, Im satisfied there was enough going on that should have given 
Mr V more than a cause for concern. To my mind it is reasonable to suggest that this should 
have led to Mr V questioning the legitimacy of it all and what he was being told and the 
returns he was being promised. So, I think Monzo have acted fairly in choosing to decline 
reimbursing Mr V under the CRM Code under the grounds that an exception to 
reimbursement applies.
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr V was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Monzo wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because, Im not 
persuaded the payments would have appeared so out of character or unusual. The 
payments werent particularly large or remarkable. So I dont think the CRM Code required 
that Monzo display an effective warning as part of the payment process, and Im not 
persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to question the payments with Mr V 
before allowing them to be processed.
I have also considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr V
lost. From what Ive seen, Monzo didnt act quickly enough to attempt to recover Mr Vs 
losses after he notified them that hed fallen victim to a scam. But from the evidence 
gathered from the receiving bank, I can see that this wouldnt have made any difference. 
By the time Mr V told Monzo what had happened, his funds had already been moved out of 
the account. 
For completeness, I note Monzo in its final response letter to Mr V said its credited £25.00 
as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of a delay in acknowledging his complaint. I 
appreciate that this will have been frustrating to Mr V but I am mindful this did not prevent 
him from referring his complaint to our service. So it follows that I make no further 
recommendation on this point. 
I do recognise Mr V has been the victim of a cruel scam and he has my sympathy. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded Monzo can fairly or reasonably be held liable 
for his loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman