DRN-2699008
The complaint
Mr A complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) hasnt provided the service it 
should have done regarding his hire purchase agreement. He says he has raised several 
complaints and that the actions of SMFL have caused him a lot of stress.
What happened
Mr A entered a hire purchase agreement with SMFL in November 2018 to acquire a car. He 
has raised the following complaints:
1. He was charged outside the terms and conditions of his contractual agreement;
2. Misstatements were made in the contractual agreement;
3. Data and documentation were lost or unrecorded relating to the agreement;
4. He was permitted to upgrade his vehicle but not downgrade;
5. Repossession was sought with no legal ruling or decision.
Our investigator explained that points 1 and 4 had been addressed in final response letters 
issued in 2019 and hadnt been referred to this service within the required six month 
timeframe. Complaint point 3 he thought had been dealt with reasonably by SMFL and no 
formal complaint about this had been raised. He considered the other points and the issues 
Mr A raised that overlapped with the complaint points being investigated. 
Regarding point 2, Mr A said that his deposit wasnt recorded on his agreement and he 
thought this could mean his payment hadnt been counted towards the payment of the car. 
He said the full transaction details relating to the part exchange he undertook werent 
recorded in his agreement even though they directly contributed to the amount financed. He 
said the amounts he had paid may need to be included in the calculation of the total amount 
he had paid when considering the right of SMFL to carry out a repossession.
Regarding point 5, Mr A raised concerns about the Rule of Thirds calculation and whether 
this had been accurately carried out. He challenged whether the total amount payable 
recorded was an accurate starting point for the calculation. He said the details of the rule 
werent made clear to him and he wasnt happy to be bound by this.
SMFL says that Mr A had raised complaints about charges, the deposit paid and Mr As 
intention to downgrade his vehicle in 2019 and these had been dealt with in its letters dated 
April and May 2019. It says that Mr As account was in arrears and a notice of default was 
issued dated 10 June 2019 which detailed the consequences of not making the required 
payment by the date set. It says it tried to contact Mr A but wasnt successful and his 
agreement was terminated on 28 June 2019 and a letter sent to Mr A confirming this. SMFL 
says that Mr A then made a payment to clear and a new direct debit was set up. However, 
payments werent maintained and in January 2020 Mr As agreement was in arrears and 
SMFL instructed its recoveries team to recover the vehicle. It says Mr A had paid less than a 
third of the amount due under his agreement. SMFL says that Mr A then asked to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement but it explained his agreement had already been terminated but he 
had the option to voluntarily surrender the vehicle. 
SMFL says that Mr A raised concerns about the amounts included in his agreement and it 
responded clarifying the amounts. It says Mr A hadnt paid a third of the total amount 
payable and its repossession of the vehicle was legally instructed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained the process that had taken place 
before repossession and he didnt think, given the arrears on Mr As account, the breakdown 
in communication and Mr A not caring for the car in line with the terms of the agreement, that 
SMFL had done anything wrong by terminating Mr As agreement and taking possession of 
the car.
Our investigator thought that Mr As complaint points had been addressed by SMFL in its 
responses to him and didnt think there were any mistakes regarding the amounts included 
in the agreement. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each case based on its individual merits. I take relevant law into consideration, but 
my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances 
of the complaint.
Mr A has raised several issues some of which overlap. Our investigator has set out in his 
views the background to the issues raised and our jurisdiction and the impact this has. I 
dont intend to repeat these points but note that the issues addressed in the April and May 
2019 final response letters are not part of this decision due to the referral taking place more 
than six months after the issue of the final responses. However, I have considered Mr As 
other complaints and noted the overlapping nature of all the issues raised.
While Mr A has raised many issues, the overriding issue is whether he has been treated 
fairly regarding the steps taken to terminate his agreement and then repossess his car. 
While I may not have addressed each of the points Mr A has made in detail this doesnt 
mean that I havent taken them into account, but instead that I have focused my comments 
on my reasons for my decision about how Mr A has been treated.
Mr A entered a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car. This set out the terms of the 
agreement including the payments required and the consequences of not maintaining these. 
Mr A didnt maintain the payments due under the agreement and so I do not find I can say 
SMFL acted unfairly by taking further action.
Mr As account was in arrears and a default notice was issued dated 10 June 2019. This set 
out the action that needed to be taken and clearly stated the consequences of this not 
happening including Mr As agreement being terminated and him no longer being entitled to 
the possession of the car. Therefore, I find that Mr A was provided with the information he 
needed to be aware of the situation on his account and had the opportunity to remedy this 
before action was taken.
Mr A didnt make the required payments set out in the default notice and his agreement was 
terminated. He was sent a termination letter dated 28 June 2019. This explained why Mr As 
agreement had been terminated and as he had breached his agreement I do not find I can 
say SMFL did anything wrong by taking this action. The termination letter said that if contact 
wasnt made within seven days then further action would be taken to recover the car and any outstanding amounts due. Mr A contacted SMFL and made a payment and set up a new 
direct debit. However, this wasnt maintained and as the account was still in arrears in 
January 2020 I do not find that SMFL did anything wrong by acting to recover the car.
Overall, as Mr A hadnt maintained his payments under his agreement and I also understand 
the car wasnt insured, I accept he had breached his agreement and so I cannot say SMFL 
was wrong to take steps towards recovering the car. 
Mr A has challenged the rights of SMFL to repossess the car due to the payments that had 
been made. I have looked through the amounts recorded in the agreement and the sales 
documents and considered the points Mr A has made about the deposit paid and part 
exchange amount. However, I do not find anything to suggest that the amounts included in 
the agreement are incorrect. The information in the sales invoice records the cost of the car 
(£5,500), the deposit payment, part exchange amount and the settlement due on Mr As 
previous finance. These amounts result in a net amount to be financed of £6,400 which is 
the amount included in Mr As agreement with SMFL. Additional to the finance amount is the 
interest charge and this is clearly set out in the agreement. This combined gives a total 
amount payable of £8,744.26. 
The agreement has a section titled Repossession: your rights and this explains that if more 
than a third of the total amount payable under the agreement (that is £2,924.74 being one 
third of £8,774.26) has been paid then SMFL cannot take the car without Mr As permission 
or without a court order. SMFL has provided information about the amount Mr A had paid 
and as this was less that a third of the total amount due under the agreement I do not find it 
did anything wrong by taking the action it did.
I accept that Mr A is likely to be disappointed by my decision and I understand why he has 
raised his concerns. However, in this case I do not find that SMFL acted unfairly or did 
anything wrong by taking the action it did following Mr As breach of his agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman