DRN-1510190
The complaint
Miss D complains that First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) refused to let her reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss D acquired a second-hand car costing £6,295 funded by a deposit of 
£350 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. The car was some seven years old 
and had done 45,436 miles. In November 2019 the car broke down and it was taken to a 
garage. It diagnosed a fault with the head gasket and recommended that the engine be 
replaced. 
Miss D complained to FRF, but it said that she had done 3,500 miles and an older car 
couldnt be expected to work as well as a new one. It offered to finance the cost of the 
repairs. Miss D had the car repaired. She also brought her complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
He noted the car had an ecoboost engine which had a history of the type of failure Miss D 
encountered. He explained that cars of this type were fitted with a nylon coolant pipe (Degas 
pipe) between the engine and coolant tank that had the potential to fail at high temperatures. 
There was no evidence that the pipe had been replaced on Miss Ds car and given the 
nature of the failure it was likely it to have been due to an inherent fault. He suggested FRF 
should cover the cost of the repair and pay Miss D compensation.
FRF didnt agree and said it had checked with the manufacturer and the car hadnt been the 
subject of a recall. It also said the car had been the subject of an independent report and the 
mechanic had said that the fault occurred on the day it happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FRF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is unusual for a car with such a low mileage despite its age to suffer such a catastrophic 
failure. FRF says it spoke to the mechanic dealing with the car and it has taken his response 
to support its positon. I must admit I dont find the words it quotes as being as clear cut as 
the business suggests. The car was the subject of an independent report. The only written 
evidence we have is a short note on an estimate which notes that a large amount of coolant 
was found in the oil and the compression was pushing it from the header tank which 
suggested a head gasket failure or crack in the head. It doesnt comment on the cause.
I am not sure what the mechanics reported comment that the fault occurred on the day it 
happened means. That doesnt explain what led up to the fault occurring, rather it simply 
implies that it broke down on a particular day. I certainly cannot say that this means that 
there wasnt some inherent issue which led up to the catastrophic failure. I accept that the 
car wasnt the subject of a manufacturers recall, but that doesnt mean that the fault wasnt 
inherent. 
I note Miss D drove the car for some 3,500 miles, but the mileage was still relatively low for 
the age of the car and she had reasonable expectation that it was last for more than some 
49,000 miles with the engine having to be replaced. I accept that a second-hand car will not 
be of the same standard as a new one, but there is a reasonable expectation of durability. 
An engine that has to be replaced before it has done 50,000 miles is not simply a matter of 
wear and tear. It suggests something more fundamental was wrong with the car. 
I have noted that Miss D continues to have problems with the car despite the repairs being 
carried out, but if Miss D considers these to have been present at the point of sale she will 
have to allow FRF to comment before this service can consider a complaint. 
Putting things right
Often such issues are not clear cut and I have to reach a judgment on the available 
evidence. In this case I think that on the balance of probabilities the problem was inherent in 
the car and as such it would have been present at the point of sale. 
Miss D has suggested she paid some of the cost direct to the garage which repaired the car 
and subject to her providing an invoice this should also be paid by the business.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct First Response Finance Ltd to:
Cancel the loan made to cover the cost of repair and refund any payments made on 
it.
Reimburse the direct costs that Miss D incurred to replace the engine.
Pay interest on the above amount at a rate of 8% simple from 4 November 2019 to 
the date of settlement.
Refund Miss D the equivalent of 37 days 'monthly rental' to cover the time from when 
the engine failed to the date the vehicle was back up and running.
Pay 8% simple interest on the 37 days 'monthly rental' mentioned above from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman