DRN-4219480
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) didnt inform him 
at the outset that he wasnt eligible for the £170 switching incentive payment. 
What happened
In February 2023 first direct were offering an account switching deal where it would pay 
£170 if certain qualifying criteria were meet. Mr L wished to take advantage of this deal and 
started an account switch application with first direct and opened an account. 
Mr L had previously held an account with first direct opened in 2016 and was paid first 
directs joining incentive then. Mr L closed this account in October 2022 but continued to 
hold a credit card with first direct.  One of the qualifying criteria to receive the incentive 
payment was that you must be a new customer who has not ever held a first direct product. 
After opening the account Mr L didnt receive the £170 switch incentive payment and 
contacted first direct about this.
First direct informed Mr L that he wasnt eligible for the payment as hed previously held an 
account with it. 
Mr L was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr L says that first 
direct shouldnt take potential customers through a thorough application to meet the criteria, 
accept the response and open the account and then refuse the offer. He says had he known 
he wasnt eligible for the incentive payment he may not have gone through the whole 
process.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and didnt think that first direct had 
treated him unfairly. They thought that first directs website had made it clear and specified 
that in order to qualify for the switch service incentive payment you needed to be a new 
customer and not have ever held a first direct account. Furthermore, they thought it wasnt 
unreasonable to wait to assess Mr Ls application for the incentive at the end of the 
qualification period.  
Mr L disagreed, he thinks first direct shouldve rejected his application from the outset and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr L has experienced and see if first direct has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr L in the 
position he wouldve been in if this hadnt happened - in this case direct first direct to pay him 
the £170 incentive for switching his account. 
Mr L is unhappy first direct told him after he switched his account that he didnt qualify for the 
incentive payment.  
But first directs website makes it clear that to qualify for the incentive payment you needed 
to be a new customer and not have held a first direct account before. Mr L was neither of 
these things  hed previously had an account with first direct only a few months earlier 
which hed received an incentive payment for when he opened that account and he still held 
a credit card.  
Mr L says he wasnt made aware of this prior to switching his account and may not have 
switched accounts if hed known he wouldnt be eligible for the payment. But I think its 
unlikely you would switch accounts solely to receive an incentive payment without making 
yourself aware of what you needed to do to qualify and the website makes this quite clear.
And I think a reasonable person would likely understand that the purpose of such schemes 
is to attract new customers and their business and not to have customers switch bank 
accounts back and forth to capitalise on the incentive payments.
Mr L thinks it was unfair of first direct to allow him to continue with his application when it had 
knowledge that he already had held accounts with it and wouldnt qualify for the payment. 
But I cant see anywhere that Mr L told first direct the only reason he was switching was to 
receive then incentive payment. Indeed, Mr L couldve been switching accounts for any 
number of reasons, such as being unhappy with his current account provider.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think first direct has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr L unfairly and so I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against HSBC Bank Plc 
trading as first direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman