DRN-3427226
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Freedom Health Insurance handled a claim he made on 
a Freedom Health private medical insurance policy. The policy was underwritten by AWP 
P&C SA and Freedom Health dealt with the claim and complaint on AWPs behalf. 
As Mr S communications have been with Freedom Health (FH) though, for simplicity, Ill 
mostly refer to it throughout this decision rather than AWP.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I dont intend to set this 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive summarised the key circumstances.
In July 2021, Mr S was diagnosed with a spinal tumour. His treating doctor referred him 
onwards to a consultant spinal neurosurgeon and suggested two potential specialists who Ill 
call Mr C and Mr P. Mr S contacted FH on 4 August 2021 to request authorisation for a 
consultation with either Mr C or Mr P. FH responded the following day to say that it would 
cover a consultation with Mr C, which Mr S went on to book for a few days later. Ahead of 
the first appointment, FH let Mr S know that Mr C wasnt fee-assured (meaning that Mr S 
would be responsible for paying any of Mr Cs costs which were above FHs limits).
Mr S met with Mr C, who recommended that Mr S should undergo surgery. Mr S wanted a 
second clinical opinion and asked FH to cover this cost, but FH let him know this wasnt 
covered.  FH authorised the hospital costs of Mr S surgery under Mr C. The surgery was 
scheduled to take place on 25 September 2021 at a hospital Ill call N, which was a hospital 
on part of Mr S approved list.
Unfortunately, Mr S surgery had to be cancelled on 25 September 2021, due to the 
discovery of issues with his blood during pre-operative tests. FH authorised the cost of Mr S 
seeing a haematologist and Mr S was also able to rebook the surgery with Mr C to take 
place on 23 October 2021. In the meantime, FH also let Mr S know that Mr P was a fee-
assured specialist. It covered the cost of Mr S consulting with Mr P on 7 October 2021. Mr P 
agreed that surgery was required. 
However, N had a lack of private rooms and Mr S had become concerned about the shortfall 
between Mr Cs fees and the amount FH would pay towards them. So Mr S asked FH 
whether it would pay any compensation towards the lack of private accommodation at N, 
which he could put towards Mr Cs fees. FH declined to offer any cash benefit.
On that basis, Mr S cancelled his surgery with Mr C a week before it was due to take place. 
FH reconsidered its position and told Mr S that it might be prepared to pay cash benefit 
outside of the policy terms if he needed to stay in an NHS ward following the surgery. By this 
point though, Mr S had already cancelled the surgery hed booked for 23 October 2021. And 
he decided to book surgery through Mr P instead. This couldnt be carried out at N until late 
November 2021, although it could be carried out at a hospital Ill call W at the end of October 
2021.
As W wasnt an approved hospital on Mr S list though, FH told him that if he chose to 
undergo surgery there, it would only cover 50% of his costs, in line with the policy terms.
Ultimately, Mr S underwent surgery at N under the care of Mr P in late November 2021. He 
was very unhappy with the way FH had handled his claim. Briefly, he considered that had 
FH told him upfront that Mr P was fee-assured and hadnt broadly suggested he undergo 
care from Mr C, then hed have been able to undergo urgent surgery under Mr P on 23 
October 2021. Alternatively, had FH agreed to pay compensation in recognition of the fact 
that N had no private rooms available in October 2021 in a reasonable time, then he 
couldve undergone surgery with Mr C as planned. 
FH accepted that it couldve let Mr S know upfront that Mr C wasnt fee-assured and that Mr 
P was. And it felt it couldve potentially considered paying Mr S an ex-gratia cash benefit 
earlier than it did. But ultimately, it didnt agree that it was responsible for the delay in Mr S 
undergoing surgery. That was firstly because whether Mr S had seen Mr C or Mr P initially, 
his surgery would always have been delayed by the abnormality identified in his pre-
operative tests. And Mr S had rebooked with Mr C, despite knowing by that point that Mr P 
was fee-assured and had been prepared to pay the shortfall in costs hed have been liable 
for had the operation gone ahead as planned in September 2021. FH hadnt been 
responsible for his decision to cancel the surgery with Mr C and Mr S hadnt let it know about 
the rebooking and cancellation until it was too late to come to an arrangement about cash 
benefit or a contribution towards Mr Cs fees.
Overall, FH felt a compensation award of £100 to reflect its errors would be fair and 
reasonable and so it offered this amount to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy with FHs handling of his claim and he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator concluded that FHs offer of compensation was fair. She didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show that FH had caused a significant delay in Mr S surgery.
Mr S disagreed. He maintained that FH had directed him to the wrong consultant and this 
had been the catalyst for the delays hed experienced.  He felt the blood test result could 
also have been identified earlier had he been under Mr Ps care from the start. He didnt 
think the investigator had taken into account the distress and anxiety hed been caused.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think FH has made a fair offer of 
compensation and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that whilst Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and his detailed submissions to our service, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent 
us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Id add too that its clear that Mr S has been through an upsetting and painful situation. I 
dont doubt how worrying it mustve been when he was diagnosed with a spinal tumour and 
learned that he needed surgery. I was pleased to read that Mr S underwent surgery successfully and I do hope that hes continuing to recover well. Im aware that Mr S has 
raised a number of concerns about the treatment he received while he was in hospital. As 
the investigator explained though, we have no power to look into complaints about the 
treatment provided by a hospital itself and nor can I fairly hold FH responsible for any actions 
of a hospital it isnt responsible for. My role here is to consider whether FH handled Mr S 
claim promptly and fairly. If Mr S is unhappy with the treatment he received at the hospital, 
hell need to raise that directly with the hospital.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether FH treated 
Mr S fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S policy 
with FH. The policy covers the investigation, diagnosis and treatment of an acute condition  
in line with the remaining policy terms. In this case, Mr S was diagnosed with a spinal tumour 
and FH covered the cost of investigating, diagnosis and ultimately, the treatment of Mr S 
condition. As such then, FH met its obligations under the terms of the contract.
FH accepts that it wouldve been helpful had it told Mr S upfront, on 5 August 2021, that Mr 
C wasnt fee-assured, but that Mr P was. While I cant say with certainty what Mr S wouldve 
done had he been aware of the fee status of both consultants, I accept that he may well 
have opted for care under Mr P, on the basis that Mr Ps fees would be fully met by FH.
However, on 9 August 2021, FH did let Mr S know that Mr C wasnt fee-assured. This was 
prior to Mr S first consultation with Mr C, which took place a couple of days later and before 
Mr S began on a treatment pathway with Mr C. Its possible Mr S may have incurred 
cancellation costs had he cancelled the appointment when he learned Mr C wasnt fee-
assured. But it seems to me that Mr S did have enough knowledge to be aware that if he 
underwent surgery under the care of Mr C, he might be responsible for paying some of Mr 
Cs costs.
Following the first appointment with Mr C, Mr S asked FH if it would authorise him getting a 
second opinion from a different doctor. Theres no mention in the email he sent FH that this 
was because Mr C wasnt fee-assured, or that he wanted an opinion from a specialist who 
was fee-assured. Neither did he request a second opinion from Mr P specifically. As the 
costs of obtaining a second opinion arent something the policy covers, I dont think it was 
unfair for FH to decline to pay for such a consultation. 
That didnt mean that Mr S wasnt free to obtain a second clinical opinion at his own cost if 
he wanted to do so. It doesnt seem though that Mr S did choose to seek a second clinical 
opinion. Instead, he obtained authorisation from FH for the surgery to take place under Mr C, 
whom Mr S knew wasnt fee-assured, on 25 September 2021. It seems there was a delay of 
around 25 days between FH authorising the surgery and the date it was scheduled for. Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence that this was because of any delay on the part of FH though or 
that Mr S couldve undergone the surgery any sooner had he initially seen Mr P
It's unfortunate that the surgery couldnt go ahead on 25 September 2021 as planned. I 
appreciate that this wouldve been very disappointing for Mr S. But the evidence indicates 
that the surgical delay was down to a blood abnormality being identified during pre-operative 
tests. This is something that FH couldnt have foreseen and I cant fairly hold it responsible. I 
havent seen any medical evidence either to demonstrate that if Mr S had been under Mr Ps 
care from the start, this abnormality wouldve been picked-up sooner or that the surgery 
couldve gone ahead on 25 September 2021.Id add too that its clear that the potential lack of private rooms in N caused Mr S some 
worry. I can appreciate that given hed paid for private medical cover and was under private 
care, he reasonably expected to recover in a private room. However, as Ive set out above, 
FH wasnt responsible for the operation of N and so it wasnt liable for the lack of private 
rooms. The policy does provide NHS cash benefit, but only if a policyholder undergoes NHS 
treatment which would otherwise by covered by their private medical policy. In this case, Mr 
S wasnt receiving treatment on the NHS, so the policy didnt cover a cash payment to 
compensate him for a lack of a private room to recover in.
With that said, FH acknowledges that it couldve considered Mr S request more broadly and 
indeed, it did go on to offer Mr S a compensation benefit of £100 for each night he spent in 
an NHS ward after the surgery. So I now need to think about whether FHs delay in making 
such an offer delayed the surgery further. And I dont think I could fairly find that it did.
I say that because Mr S knew, on 29 September 2021, that FH didnt intend to pay cash 
benefit. He was also aware by this point that Mr P was fee-assured. And he consulted Mr P 
on 7 October 2021. But surgery under Mr C was rescheduled on 13 October 2021 to take 
place 10 days later  on the same terms that the September 2021 surgery had been. It 
seems to me then that Mr S had been prepared to undergo surgery with a non-fee-assured 
specialist, despite having sought the opinion of a fee-assured consultant, and in the 
knowledge that cash benefit wouldnt be paid. 
On 18 October 2021, Mr S indicated to Mr Cs secretary that he had to cancel the surgery 
because FH had forced him to change consultant and because of the costs hed incur if he 
underwent treatment. Ive seen nothing to indicate that FH insisted that he change 
consultants and as Ive said, it seems hed been happy only five days before to proceed with 
surgery under Mr Cs care. I accept it mustve been frustrating when FH made an offer of an 
ex-gratia cash benefit only a short while after Mr S cancelled the surgery with Mr C. But both 
parties agree that Mr S hadnt let FH know that the surgery had been rebooked for 23 
October 2021 or that he was considering cancelling it. So I dont think FH could reasonably 
have known that Mr S would cancel the surgery earlier on 18 October 2021, if it didnt make 
such a cash benefit offer by earlier that day. 
Additionally, Mr S says that had FH made this offer earlier, he wouldve proceeded with 
surgery on 23 October 2021, under Mr Cs care. Ive thought about this. But Im not 
persuaded that that is the case. Mr S had cancelled the surgery only a very short while 
ahead of receiving FHs offer and it seems to me that had he wished to, he couldve 
rebooked the surgery with Mr C. But he chose not to do so and instead pursued care under 
Mr P.
Ultimately, I appreciate how upsetting it mustve been when the surgery was further delayed 
because Mr P couldnt perform it at N until late November 2021. But I cant fairly hold FH 
responsible for Mr S choice to transfer his care, nor any scheduling commitments Mr P 
already had. While Mr P may have been able to operate sooner at W, I dont think it would 
be reasonable for me to find that FH needed to pay the full costs of surgery at a hospital 
which wasnt on Mr S list. The policy makes it clear that if a policyholder uses a hospital 
outside of their cover, FH will only pay 50% of the costs, up to the policy limits. 
Overall, I need to think about the likely impact of any service failings on Mr S ability to 
access surgery in a timely way. And in my view, while there were things FH couldve done 
better, the main reasons for the delay were because of the abnormality in Mr S pre-
operative tests and the switch from Mr Cs care to Mr Ps. I dont think I can fairly hold FH 
responsible for the delays in surgery caused by these events. So all in all, I find that FH has 
already made a fair offer of compensation of £100 to reflect the trouble and upset its service 
failings caused Mr S. Its now open to Mr S to accept this offer should he wish to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that FH has already made a fair offer 
of compensation and I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman