DRN-1640879
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy Vitality Health Limited didnt pay a claim she made on a private medical 
insurance policy despite initially saying it would. 
What happened
Mrs T previously had insurance with Vitality through a policy provided by her husbands 
employer. However, after she found that policy had been cancelled she took out a new 
policy through her own company in January 2019. Mrs T made a claim on that policy at the 
end of February because she was suffering from pain and mobility issues related to her right 
hip. 
Vitality contacted her GP who said she was suffering from hip arthritis and this issue had first 
been referred in 2012 when an operation was carried out. He said that there has been no 
GP or consultant consultation about this hip for more than five years. But patient was aware 
of some symptoms.   
Vitality agreed to pay for consultations and on 15 March authorised treatment for a hip 
replacement. That procedure was then scheduled for 25 April However, on 9 April Vitality 
told Mrs T authorisation had been given incorrectly and the claim shouldnt have been 
covered at all because shed suffered symptoms of arthritis in the five years before she took 
out her new policy. It said it would pay for the treatment Mrs T had been provided with up to 
that point but wouldnt cover the hip replacement operation. It offered to pay Mrs T £500 in 
compensation (which it later increased to £1000). Mrs T went ahead with the procedure as 
planned.
Mrs T thought Vitality should pay for her operation and said the term it had relied on wasnt 
fair. She didnt know shed need a hip replacement until advised by the consultant and had 
no appointments or treatment for this in the five years before taking out the policy. And she 
said Vitality was wrong to authorise the claim and then withdraw that authorisation. 
Having reviewed the policy terms our investigator was satisfied Mrs Ts claim wasnt covered 
by her policy. And so Vitality had been wrong to say it was. But he noted it had told her two 
weeks prior to her operation this wouldnt be covered and Mrs T had gone ahead knowing 
that was the case. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask Vitality to cover the costs of it. 
And he thought the £1000 it had offered was a fair way of recognising the distress she was 
caused by what it got wrong. Mrs T didnt agree so I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Vitality has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In considering how that applies 
in this case Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy. I can see her plan 
was taken out on a moratorium basis and where thats the case the policy says:
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the five
years before your cover start date you:
 have received medical treatment for
 had symptoms of
 have asked advice on or
 to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
In this case Mrs T had surgery on her hip in 2012. I appreciate she may not have received 
medical treatment for it since then. But the exclusion isnt limited to that  it also refers to a 
medical condition you have symptoms of or were aware existed. And her doctor has 
confirmed that while she hadnt seen a GP or consultant about her hip for more than five 
years she was aware of some symptoms and shed been self-managing the condition 
(through things like exercise and weight loss) in the intervening years. 
I also note that in his referral letter to the consultant in February 2019 he said the condition 
now meant she could no longer run or cycle and suffered from very bad night pain. And I 
dont think its in dispute the hip replacement Mrs T subsequently claimed for was related to 
those ongoing symptoms. So I think Vitality have acted fairly in saying this isnt covered by 
her policy. 
Where its clearly got something wrong is in telling Mrs T her claim would be covered when it 
wasnt. Ive thought about the impact on Mrs T of that error. I think its right Vitality has 
agreed to cover the cost of consultations carried out prior to it letting Mrs T know what the 
correct position was. But I dont think that means it should also cover the cost of the 
operation she subsequently had. 
Mrs T was aware two weeks prior to that Vitality wouldnt be covering this. And I think she 
was therefore in a position to make her own decision as to whether she still wanted to go 
ahead with this privately (and pay for it) or wait for treatment on the NHS. I can completely 
understand why, given her situation, she chose to seek private treatment but I think she did 
that in the knowledge Vitality wouldnt be paying for this. So I dont agree it should now cover 
the cost of this treatment. 
I do appreciate it will nevertheless have been extremely disappointing for Mrs T to learn this 
procedure wouldnt be covered having previously been told it would. I accept that will have 
been particularly distressing as I understand her hip was causing her considerable pain at 
the time. But Ive also taken into account that Vitality told Mrs T what the correct position was 
less than a month after it incorrectly authorised her operation  and that was two weeks prior 
to its scheduled date. And Vitality has already agreed to pay £1000 to recognise the distress 
she was caused. I think that fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused by the wrong 
information being given and I dont think theres more it needs to do to put things right here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Vitality Health Limited has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman