DRN-2683596
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to stop paying his claim.
What happened
Mr S has an income protection policy with Unum provided by his employer. He made a claim 
in November 2013 following a diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) which was 
initially accepted in February 2014 and paid until October 2016.
Mr S said CFS is a chronic condition thats unlikely to improve. He also said hes been 
diagnosed with ulcerative colitis (UC) and this, in tandem with his CFS, means hes still too 
unwell to return to work. He said Unum should continue to pay his claim on that basis.
Unum said that after a review of Mr S claim, it completed an extensive cognitive 
assessment, the result of which showed he had a good prospect of returning to work, with 
some adjustments. It also highlighted that Mr S policy was an any occupation policy after 
two years, and that it also assessed his ability to perform another occupation which he is 
suited by way of education, experience or training. It reaffirmed its position to stop paying 
Mr S benefit.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the medical evidence put forward by 
Mr S wasnt persuasive enough to support that he was suffering from a medical condition 
that would preclude him from returning to work on a phased program. She also said she was 
more persuaded by the independent medical report (IME) than the GPs FIT notes.
Mr S disagreed with her findings. He submitted several arguments, along with medical 
studies in support of CFS and UC and the impact they can have on those affected. He also 
challenged our investigators interpretation of the evidence, in particular, the IME as she said 
it showed Mr S was well enough to return to work. And so, its for me to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Theres a lot of medical evidence 
submitted by Mr S, but for clarity, Im assessing the medical evidence pertaining to the 
medical issues he experienced at that time. Ive decided not to uphold his complaint because 
I dont think theres enough persuasive medical evidence to suggest Unum made an error in 
ceasing to pay benefit. I say that because Mr S no longer meets the definition of incapacity. 
Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr S is unwell. The evidence shows that he suffers with symptoms of 
CFS and UC. Mr S has also provided case studies which link the two illnesses together. I 
wanted to acknowledge this, but that does not mean Unum should continue to pay him 
benefit. Unum needed to demonstrate that Mr S no longer met the policy terms, particularly, 
the term about incapacity and Im satisfied it has. The terms say;
(1) For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if (a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and (b) the member is 
not following any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3, then the member is 
incapacitated. 
(2) Beginning immediately after the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if (a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and (b) the member is 
unable by reason of illness or injury to follow any occupation with any employer for which he 
is reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or experience, then the member is 
incapacitated
The first part of the term means that Mr S was protected against illness for his insured 
occupation, or in other words, his role as a technical project manager. And so, the insurer 
assessed his incapacity against the demands and responsibilities of that role. Mr S claim 
was accepted, and he received regular benefit for more than two years, because Unum 
agreed that he was too unwell to fulfil the requirement of that role due to his illness. 
But Im not satisfied Mr S met the second part of the definition. I say that because this is 
where Unums scope broadened to include any occupation which he may be suited. Mr S 
has described, in detail, how his CFS affected his ability to do his job. He mentioned that as 
technical project manager, he was expected to drive long distances, meet with clients and 
help implement IT platforms. Hes also explained that long-distanced travel was one of the 
barriers preventing him being able to return to work, particularly as he regularly travelled 
between 500  1000 miles every week. 
However, because the insurers focus shifted to incorporate the second part of the definition 
of incapacity, it means that Unum can effectively consider Mr S claim against that criteria, 
including his ability to work a similar role with a different company  meaning the problem of 
travel with his current employer might not be an issue with another. Similarly, some of the 
medical evidence not only said that Mr S could return to work should the travel-element be 
reassessed, but also, expectations around his performance be carefully considered. Im 
persuaded these tweaks mean that Mr S could do a similar-type role elsewhere, perhaps on 
a part-time basis, or with less travel expected.
Mr S has previously said that hed likely be able to consider a return to work should he be 
offered regular homeworking, but as I understand it, this isnt something his employers able 
to guarantee. And so, given Unums policy allows it to reconsider his claim against any 
occupation, this effectively means Mr S could work for another employer that offers a regular 
homeworking facility, or one with minimal travel commitments in line with his driving 
tolerances. And thats why I agree Unums decision to stop paying benefit to Mr S is fair, 
because he no longer meets the definition of incapacity as described by its policy.  
I should also highlight that the medical evidence would suggest that Mr S is able to return to 
his current role in some capacity. There are comments about what reasonable adjustments 
would be needed and concessions thatd need to be made for measuring his performance. I 
think Unum has interpreted this evidence accurately and fairly. I note there were further 
comments made by Unums chief medical officer that after reviewing the medical evidence, 
he was persuaded there was no disease or pathological process, restriction of function, or 
medical reason that would preclude Mr S from fulfilling the obligations of his role. Rather, he 
suggested Mr S limitations are psychologically based and that this would take some time to 
unwind. This is the reason Unum decided to stop making payments in July 2016. Unum decided to 
pay Mr S an additional three months worth of benefit in view of supporting him with a 
phased return to work. But Mr S decided not to engage with that owing to his symptoms, but 
I dont think its unfair for Unum to rely on the evidence the way it has here. I know Mr S has 
strongly contested this assessment and supplied further FIT notes, alongside other evidence 
to challenge this, but I find it less persuasive for the reasons Ive explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman