DRN-4344498
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) blocked access to his 
banking app and increased his minimum monthly payments to his credit card account 
without prior notification, causing him financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr S says he held a credit card account with a bank (Bank A) who were taken over by Virgin. 
Mr S says prior to the takeover he had been making his monthly payments to Bank A using 
his banking app, but without any notification following the takeover, the access to his app 
was removed, his minimum monthly payments increased, and he was given incorrect and 
confusing information about how he could make his payments going forward. Mr S says 
Virgin also failed to amend his credit card contact details correctly.
Mr S says Virgin have put him into arrears because it changed the minimum monthly amount 
he must pay without advising him of this and this has caused him financial hardship and is 
the reason why his credit card account is now in arrears. 
Mr S wants Virgin to continue with the minimum monthly payments he was making when he 
was with Bank A and agree a suitable payment plan and reverse any interest and charges to 
his credit card account. Mr S also wants compensation above the £100 Virgin have offered, 
for the poor service he has received and for the fact Virgin didnt respond to his written 
correspondence regarding his issues.   
Virgin says as Mr S has no valid active credit card and is in persistent debt he would not 
have access to the banking app. Virgin says it should have updated his credit card contact 
details and offered to send him paper statements and offered him £100 by way of an 
apology. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Virgin were entitled to make the changes to Mr Ss credit card account 
terms and conditions and these changes were provided to him when his credit card account 
migrated. The investigator says he was satisfied Virgin had issued sufficient communications 
regarding the status of  the arrears on his credit card account and pointed out Mr Ss credit 
card account was in arrears before it migrated to Virgin.
The investigator didnt feel Virgin had acted unfairly in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr S, to no longer have 
access to his banking app and to learn his minimum monthly payments were being 
increased  which Mr S says he had no previous notification. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin acted fairly when it denied Mr S 
access to its banking app and if it had provided him with sufficient notification of that and the 
changes to its terms and conditions, including the minimum monthly payments he needed to 
make going forward. 
The first thing to say here is that both Mr S and Virgin have provided this service with 
comprehensive correspondence regarding this complaint and while that has proved helpful, I 
wont be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a 
full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything sent to us  
I have. 
Its fair to say that a central part of Mr Ss complaint is that much of the correspondence 
Virgin says it sent concerning the changes in the terms and conditions, the new minimum 
payments, and changes to his account, werent ever received by him. Mr S also feels the 
only reason he is in arrears now is due the changes implemented by Virgin when it took over 
his credit card account from his previous provider. 
I understand the points Mr S makes here and I do have some sympathy with his argument in 
particular whether or not he was ever sent the letters regarding the changes to his credit 
card account following the take over by Virgin. I say this because Virgin havent been able to 
provide this service with copies of any of the actual letters addressed to Mr S, simply 
examples of what would have been sent. More importantly here, Mr Ss credit card account 
was blocked as it was in persistent debt which prevented any access to the new Virgin credit 
card app and his back-office records also indicate he was blocked from any marketing 
letters. 
Its also unclear, given Mr S hadnt used his credit card for a number of years and it being 
blocked with no likelihood of it being reissued, why Virgin would then send a letter informing 
him a new credit card was on its way, in or around February 2022. Taking this into account 
its fair to say it raises some doubt given all of this, that any of these letters were actually 
sent to Mr S. 
Having said that its fair to say Mr S would have been aware his account was in persistent 
debt and there was a need to discuss the way forward, rather than just relying on paying the 
same amount each month as he had before. I have also seen evidence to show even before 
the credit card account was taken over by Virgin, he had a small amount of arrears with the 
previous provider. Mr S also received credit card statements which showed he was in 
arrears. 
I can see from transcripts provided by Virgin that attempts were made to discuss an income 
and expenditure profile with Mr S, but this seems to have not been followed up by either 
party but instead got lost in the complaints process.  
So, given what is now known by both parties here, the sensible way forward is for a suitable 
payment plan to be put in place looking at Mr Ss financial position positively and 
sympathetically. I would also propose that any adverse markers on Mr Ss credit file from 
March 2022 are removed and replaced with a payment arrangement marker, as this is what I 
would have expected to happen at this time. I understand Virgin havent charged interest on Mr Ss credit card in recent months and I propose this should be back dated from when it 
was reasonably aware of Mr Ss financial position back in March 2022. 
I understand Virgin have already paid Mr S £100 for the mistakes it made regarding updating 
his contact details and Im satisfied that is fair in the circumstances.
While Virgin will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here.
Both Mr S and Virgin responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr S and Virgin until 12 September 2023 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Virgin have confirmed it has nothing further to add, but Mr S didnt feel he was in 
arrears prior to Virgin taking over his credit card account and says he hasnt received the 
£100 Virgin offered for not updating his contact details. 
As far as the previous arrears is concerned, as I stated in my provisional decision this was a 
small amount of around £7 as Mr S hadnt fully met the minimum payment in December 
2021 and this was detailed on his credit card statement of the previous credit card provider, 
made available to this service. 
As far as the £100 is concerned if Virgin havent made that payment it offered it should now 
do so. 
With that in mind I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money :
 To discuss with Mr S a suitable payment plan, looking at his financial position positively 
and sympathetically.
 If there are any adverse markers on Mr Ss credit file from March 2022 these are to be  
removed and replaced with a payment arrangement marker.
 To refund any interest and charges applied to Mr Ss credit card account from March 2022, 
back to the credit card account. 
If Virgin havent paid Mr S the £100 it previously offered, it should now do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money :
 To discuss with Mr S a suitable payment plan, looking at his financial position positively 
and sympathetically. If there are any adverse markers on Mr Ss credit file from March 2022 these are to be  
removed and replaced with a payment arrangement marker.
 To refund any interest and charges applied to Mr Ss credit card account from March 2022, 
back to the credit card account. 
If Virgin havent paid Mr S the £100 it previously offered, it should now do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman