DRN-3127221
The complaint
 Mrs M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs M complained to HSBC that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to
her account when she was in financial difficulty. She said the fees made her overdraft more 
difficult to repay. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs M was dis-satisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
ought to have realised that Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty by January 2019 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed, it says all charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and Mrs M had another account with a credit balance she could use to bring her 
overdraft down. So the case was passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Ms 
overdraft from January 2019. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs M was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mrs M was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time and had a number of returned items. HSBCs 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Mrs Ms overdraft usage should have 
prompted HSBC to have realised that Mrs M wasnt using her overdraft as intended and 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
Furthermore, Mrs M had got in contact with HSBC early in 2019 to ask for help as she was 
having difficulty with her finances and that the charges being added were making this worse. 
In these circumstances, HSBC ought to have offered assistance and treated Mrs M with 
forbearance rather than add even more interest, fees and charges to her overdraft. I accept 
that HSBC has waived fees totalling £395. But it started charging again without establishing 
that Mrs Ms position had improved and that she was able to manage. 
I understand Mrs M had another account with a credit balance HSBC says Mrs M couldve 
used to bring her overdraft down  but a cursory look at the statements show the amount in 
this account was mainly below £100 and HSBC itself has acknowledged that Mrs Ms didnt 
have much disposable income. So I dont think HSBC went far enough or that it acted fairly 
and reasonably.
Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mrs M fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.  
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft from January 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman