DRN-1865242
The complaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although 
the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out a store card in 1999. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to 15% of the store cards outstanding 
balance if Mrs B was unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This 
would continue until either Mrs B returned to work or the balance was cleared. Our 
adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional.
Mrs B applied for the store card during a visit to a store.
Mrs B cant recall taking out PPI with the card.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original store card application form signed by Mrs B. The 
application was completed by hand. I cant be sure who completed the form, but I can see 
that the credit agreement was completed with personal details including Mrs Bs name, 
address and telephone numbers. So even if it were filled in by a member of staff, I think it 
must have been completed during a conversation with Mrs B, before being passed to her to 
check and sign.
I can see there is a section about Account Cover on the application form. This was AXAs 
name for its PPI policy.  This section contains the statement, Account Cover, only sign the 
box if you require Account Cover. I can see Mrs B has signed within this section. After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mrs B didnt 
have to take out the PPI to obtain the store card and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs B to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs B clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I 
next need to decide whether or not Mrs B would have changed her mind about buying the 
policy if she had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done. I 
say this because:
Mrs B was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if he needed to.
If Mrs B couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every 
month until the balance was cleared, or she returned to work. And it wouldve paid the same 
benefit if Mrs B lost her job.
Mrs B would have received some sick pay from her employer if she became too unwell to 
work. But the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially it 
could have paid a benefit for longer than her full sick pay would last. So, I still think Mrs B 
could have found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to work for a lengthy 
spell.
Mrs B had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to keep her savings intact or 
use them for other living costs if she became unable to work.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mrs B wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Mrs B has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mrs B was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs B had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman