DRN-3294639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has 
handled a claim he made on his insurance policy following an escape of water at his 
property.
Mr S is bringing the complaint on behalf of he and Mrs S, so for ease Ive only referred to Mr 
S in this decision.
What happened
In early 2018 there was an escape of water at Mr S property. After a few months, he made a 
complaint to this service about RSAs handling of the claim. That complaint covered matters 
up until June 2018 and Mr S was awarded £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by RSAs handling of the claim. 
Sometime later, Mr S made a further complaint to RSA. He was unhappy with the length of 
time it was taking to resolve the claim, and the quality of the work that had been carried out. 
He said the drying of the property had been significantly delayed and was unhappy that an 
independent damp experts findings weren't taken into account by RSA. 
He said due to RSAs incompetence the total cost of the claim was significantly inflated. He 
thought this had had a negative impact on his insurance premiums which have gone up as a 
result of the claim and would continue to impact him for many years to come. As a resolution 
he asked for:
RSA to remove some additional costs from the overall claim total;
a dedicated claims handler for the next 10 years to review any future issues that may 
arise; 
compensation for his insurance premiums being inflated due to the final claim value; 
compensation in order for him to restore his garden to its previous state. He said 
being out of the property for a prolonged period of time meant the garden hadn't 
been maintained and would cost him a lot of money to restore it;
compensation for the inconvenience, distress and delay.
In August 2020 RSA issued another complaint response to Mr S. It offered a further £750 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. But it didnt agree to pay 
anything towards Mr S future insurance premiums. It said whilst claims have an impact 
when calculating an insurance premium, the total value of the claim doesnt mean a 
customer will pay more for their insurance. It also said there was no cover under Mr S policy 
for reinstating the garden, as this wasnt impacted by the escape of water.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr S brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
noted that RSA had recognised its service had been poor. But he didnt think its offer of 
£750 compensation was enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S 
and his family between June 2018 and when RSA issued its cash settlement in May 2019. 
He thought the delays had had a negative impact on Mr S health and wellbeing, and he 
recommended it pay £1,250 in total to reflect this. 
But he didnt think RSA should remove any costs from the claim total. Our investigator didnt 
think RSA needed to compensate Mr S for his future premiums being higher. But he thought 
it should refund the difference between what Mr S paid RSA in 2018 to renew his insurance, 
and a quote hed received from another provider, the difference being £80.19. He said RSA 
had told Mr S he needed to renew with it, but that wasnt the case, so it had caused Mr S a 
small financial loss that he should be compensated for. 
RSA accepted the outcome, but Mr S didnt. He didnt think the compensation offered 
reflected the distress caused to him and his young family by the delays of RSA. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review the matter, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a lot of information in relation to his complaint against RSA. As this is an 
informal service I haven't commented on each point he's made, instead Ive focused on the 
reasons for coming to the decision I have. But I would like to reassure Mr S that I have read 
everything he's provided and I thank him for doing so. 
Delays and compensation
It's clear that RSA hasnt handled this claim well. It took more than a year for the property to 
be in a position where a cash settlement could be offered. Much of this delay was down to 
RSA not progressing the claim as quickly as it should have done, and RSA has accepted 
this. 
However, it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to fine RSA for its poor 
handling, or to award compensation simply because mistakes were made. Instead we look 
at the unnecessary distress and inconvenience any mistakes caused Mr S and his family 
when deciding what compensation figure is fair. Having taken everything into account I'm 
satisfied that £1,250 compensation is fair and reasonable. I've explained why below.
From what I can see RSA delayed the claim by not drying the property promptly and in 
taking too long to establish the presence of asbestos. RSA issued a drying certificate in 
October 2018, but it was clear in February 2019 that further issues had occurred. It also 
seems there was a delay in organising the asbestos tests which meant the strip out works 
took longer than they should have. This meant Mr S and his young family were in alternative 
accommodation (AA) for a lot longer than they otherwise would have been.  
Mr S has given us detail of how this impacted both his physical and mental health. The 
difficulty in deciding a compensation award is that Mr S and his family would have always 
been caused some level of distress and inconvenience, even if RSA had handled things 
better. 
The escape of water caused extensive damage to Mr S home. Having to move out and 
liaise with contractors, organise access to the property and speaking to a temporary landlord 
will undoubtably cause inconvenience. Its also clear that the claim became more complex 
than initially thought due to the presence of asbestos and other factors, which would have 
always caused some delay. But that is a natural result of such a complex claim, and not 
something RSA is responsible for. 
Compensation is to recognise any unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by 
avoidable delays and poor communication. Having considered everything, Im satisfied an 
award of £1,250 is fair and reasonable. In coming to that decision Ive also considered that 
Mr S has already received £750 compensation for the first complaint he brought against 
RSA. So RSA should now pay £1,250, less any amount already paid relating to this second 
complaint. Future premiums
I accept Mr S point that poor work and delays increased the overall claim value. Hes asked 
for certain amounts to be removed from the claim total. He said initially he was told it would 
be a 12 week repair at a cost of £25,000 but the end figure was closer to £250,000. So hes 
asked for financial compensation for the difference between the two figures, as he feels this 
will have an impact on him. 
It wouldnt be reasonable of me to ask RSA to remove costs it did incur when it reports the 
claim value on external insurance databases. This is because those databases need to be a 
true reflection of the actual cost of the claim, whether RSAs errors contributed to that cost or 
not.
However, I could require RSA to put things right if a consumer loses out because RSA has 
unfairly caused a higher claim expenditure. I think its clear the AA costs have been 
increased by RSAs poor handling. However, I think much of the reinstatement and drying 
costs would still have been significant, even though RSAs delay in drying the property did 
likely cause an increase to those. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask RSA to compensate Mr S for the 
claim amount being higher than the original estimate. Its clear that original estimate didnt 
include costs for items such asbestos removal, and the reserve for the contents and 
reinstatement of the property ended up being much higher. I dont think all of that increase 
can be attributed to delays or mistakes made by RSA. 
Having considered everything, I think the claim cost in this case was always going to be high 
given the amount of rooms affected by the escape of water. Its very difficult for me to know 
by how much exactly any delays have increased this. 
In any event, I consider the claim was, even without any mistakes, likely to be above 
£150,000. For me to say RSA should cover a financial loss for Mr S Id need to think it likely 
the claim value increasing from around or above that point to £250,000 is likely to cause an 
increase in the cost of his insurance. 
A claim record, in my experience, will often result in an increase in the cost of future cover  
regardless of the claim value. RSA says it doesnt consider the value of a claim when 
calculating premiums. I accept its possible other insurers may. But even without any 
mistakes Mr S was going to have a record of a high value claim.  I accept its possible, but 
havent seen enough to persuade me the increased claim value has or probably will result in 
unfairly high premiums for Mr S. So Im not going to ask RSA to pay anything in relation to 
this. Following our investigators view, RSA has agreed to refund the difference between what 
Mr S paid for his insurance at renewal in 2018, and what he could have paid another insurer. 
As this amount has been agreed I havent considered it further, so RSA needs to pay £80.19 
to account for this, which was the difference between the two amounts. It will also need to 
add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date Mr S paid for his insurance, until the 
date of settlement.
Garden maintenance and future issues
Mr S has asked for RSA to pay compensation as his garden deteriorated during the time he 
wasnt in the property. His garden wasnt affected by the claim so doesnt form part of RSAs 
responsibility in terms of reinstatement under the policy terms. I accept Mr S would have 
found it more difficult to maintain his garden as he wasnt living in the property, but Im 
satisfied it was still his responsibility to do so. Mr S would have always been out of his 
property for a number of months even without any delays on the part of RSA. I do accept 
that as he was out of the property for longer than he should have been, the maintenance 
work he then had to do wouldve likely increased. But I have considered this issue when 
deciding on compensation for distress and inconvenience. So Im not going to ask RSA to do 
anything more. 
Mr S remains concerned about the drying of the property. Hes asked for an undertaking 
from RSA to carry out further works regarding damp in the property if they present 
themselves over the next 10 years. This is because he doesnt feel RSA took into account 
the opinion of the damp expert. Hes also asked for a designated contact at RSA for the 
same period for any other issues.
In March 2019, an independent damp report was carried out, it said due to the mortars in the 
building, plasters could be contaminated with hygroscopic salts and these can attract internal 
moisture, resulting in damp marks on walls. It recommended rendering the walls with water- 
proof renders and salt inhibitors before being skimmed. 
It seems to me that RSA never undertook this work. It seems there was some disagreement 
as to whether it was necessary, and a cash settlement was negotiated and paid to Mr S 
soon after the report was produced. So I havent considered this any further. Whilst Id 
expect RSA and its contractors to guarantee any work it did carry out and to carry out a 
lasting and effective repair, I wouldnt expect it to issue one for work carried out by Mr S 
contractors after a cash settlement is offered. As far as Im aware there is no problem with 
Mr S house and damp. But if Mr S feels one has developed as a result of RSAs actions, 
hed need to complain to RSA about that separately. 
It also wouldnt be practical or reasonable for me to ask RSA to dedicate one point of contact 
for the next 10 years. But Id expect it to deal with any future queries from Mr S relating to 
the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required to pay compensation 
of £1,250 for distress and inconvenience, less any amount already paid relating to this 
second complaint.
It is also required to pay £80.19 for the difference in insurance premiums in 2018. Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc will need to add 8% to this amount from the date Mr S renewed 
his insurance, until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman