DRN-3985066
The complaint
Miss C complains that Itc Compliance Limited (Itc) did not treat her appropriately when she 
began to experience financial difficulties.
What happened
In April 2022 Miss C entered into a hire agreement for a car with Itc. The agreement was due 
to last for 36 months and the monthly repayments were around £330.
Out of the blue, in around June 2022, Miss C received a demand for payment from one of 
the companies that supplies utilities to her home. Unbeknownst to Miss C she had been 
underpaying it for several years and had therefore run up a large debt with it. Once the utility 
company realised this it asked her to immediately start repaying it. The new bill from Miss 
Cs utility company amounted to thousands of pounds. 
The large bill threw Miss Cs finances into disarray. Miss C could no longer afford to make 
her repayments towards her hire agreement. Therefore, Miss C sought debt advice from a 
third party organisation that advised her that her utility bill was a priority bill and she had to 
pay the utility company before her other non-priority bills. The third party company told Miss 
C that her hire agreement was a non-priority bill. 
Further, the third party told her that as she was seeking debt advice she was entitled to a 60-
day moratorium period, giving her a period of legal protection from creditors, to enable her to 
seek debt advice and find an appropriate solution for her circumstances. This protection is 
known as breathing space. The Insolvency Service is meant to notify relevant creditors when 
the breathing space period begins.
According to Miss C, she told Itc that for the time being shed have to stop making 
repayments to it. But she also told it that this would only be a temporary situation as she just 
needed a bit of time to get her finances in order again. She therefore asked it for breathing 
space. 
However, Miss C tells us that Itc consistently refused to listen to her and did not offer the 
help it should have done. Moreover, once the 60 days were over, Itc incorrectly assumed 
that she wanted to cancel the hire agreement and started the process to cancel the 
agreement and take back its car. Miss C let it know this is not what she wanted but Itc then 
told her that it would only let her keep the car if she paid off all the arrears in one go which 
she could not do. Therefore, it disregarded what she had said about not wanting to cancel 
the agreement, cancelled it and took back its car.
Miss C found this all the more upsetting because she suffers from anxiety so cannot use 
public transport and needs a car for work. Moreover, in the midst of all this a close relative 
was ill. Subsequently, Miss Cs relative died. Prior to finally collecting the car Itc had showed 
up at her house, without notice, while she was at work which caused her stress and further 
upset. After this until Itc finally took the car away she was on tenterhooks about it showing 
up unannounced again and taking the car, which also caused her feelings of uncertainty, 
anxiety and distress.
Dissatisfied Miss C complained to our service.
Once Miss Cs complaint was with us Itc sent us its response and Miss C sent us new 
information, Ive summarised below what each of them told us.
According to Itc Miss C missed her June 2022 repayment and she did not tell it in advance 
that this was going to happen. Shortly afterwards Miss C contacted it to let it know that she 
was experiencing financial difficulties and seeking debt advice and asked for breathing 
space. Despite asking for breathing space she also nonetheless indicated shed make a 
one-off catch-up repayment to it on 30 June 2022 (her normal repayment date was on the 9th 
of each month). In addiction Miss C told it thereafter shed be able to resume her 
repayments as normal. Itc agreed to accept late payment and did not charge her for this.
Come 30 June 2022 Miss C made no repayment instead she told Itc shed need further 
breathing space until 15 August 2022. That said she also agreed shed restart her 
contractual repayments in August once the breathing space had stopped. Again Itc agreed 
to accept the late payment and did not charge her for this. However, no payment was made 
in August.  Therefore Itc contacted Miss C in September 2022 to let her know she now had 
arrears of four months payments. In this month it also received the first notification it had 
ever received from the Insolvency Service about the breathing space. The Insolvency 
Service told Itc in this notification that the breathing space had ended on 15 August 2022, 
but Itc had never received a notification from it, when the breathing space began.
Miss C told Itc that she was considering legal action against it. She also indicated that she 
wanted to cancel the agreement but then changed her mind. However, by October 2022 it 
was clear to Itc that Miss C could no longer afford her contractual repayments, and neither 
could she make up the arears. Therefore Itc issued a termination notice. Itc made several 
arrangements with Miss C to collect its vehicle, but these fell through. Ultimately though it 
collected its vehicle in November 2022. In December 2022 Miss C contacted Itc to let it know 
she was prepared to set up a repayment plan of £1 to month to pay off the outstanding 
balance of the agreement.
Miss C told us on reflection she wanted £10,000 to compensate her for the way Itc had gone 
about things and £5,000 for distress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that it should be upheld.
Itc accepted our investigators recommendation, Miss C did not. In summary, Miss C 
indicated that she is not the only customer who is unhappy with Itc, and she sent us some 
customer reviews. According to Miss C these reviews show that Itc is acting inappropriately 
towards its customers in general and her in particular. She expressed the desire that Itc 
would go out of business. Moreover, Miss C underlined that for her £15,000 does not really 
go far enough to compensate her for what she thinks Itc has done wrong.
Miss C asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.I regret to hear about Miss Cs bereavement, and I am sorry for her loss.
Miss C and Itc disagree about some of the key points in this complaint. Where the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The catalyst for the whole sequence of events that led to Itc taking back its car seems to be 
the unexpected utility bill which Miss C was obliged to pay in very short order. Nothing Ive 
seen suggests that Miss C had any difficulties making the repayments up until this point. So 
this indicates that once Miss C received the bill and had to start paying it she began to 
experience financial difficulties due to a significant change in her circumstances.
Miss C wanted a chance to get her finances in order following this unexpected bill and in the 
circumstances I would have expected Itc to respond to Miss Cs attempts to get debt advice 
and her financial difficulties by following the regulations that relate to the breathing space 
provisions and with due consideration and forbearance. And whilst I realise that Miss C will 
disagree with this, I think Itc did meet its obligations here. I say this for the following reasons.
According to Itcs records which Ive no reason to doubt, and also according to the 
correspondence Ive seen between the parties, initially Miss C indicated that her financial 
difficulties would be very short-term. Specifically she led Itc to believe that she just needed to 
delay her repayment until the end of June, at which point shed be able to resume her full 
monthly repayments and catch up on her arrears. And Itc agreed to this and did not apply 
any interest or charges for this nor contact her.
Thereafter when Miss C indicated shed not be able to make a repayment and clear her 
arrears until 15 August 2022. And once again Itc accepted this, and it did not charge her for 
this neither did it contact her within the breathing space period.
However, by September 2022, as far as Itc was aware Miss Cs money troubles were over. 
The breathing space had ended. She told it previously that shed be in a position to restart 
her repayments and clear her arrears. In these circumstances, it was not unreasonable of Itc 
to ask Miss C to clear her arrears at this point.
The difficulty was that unknown to Itc, Miss Cs finances had not seemingly improved 
sufficiently for her to even make her normal monthly repayments never mind catch up with 
her arrears. Moreover given in December 2022 Miss C could only offer to pay £1 per month 
towards her outstanding debt, I think there was no realistic prospect of Miss C being able to 
resume her monthly repayments and pay the arrears even if the arrears had been spread 
over a longer period. 
Moreover, the contract between the parties provided that Itc could end the contract in these 
circumstances. And given that Miss C had agreed to the terms of the contract. I dont see 
why fairly and reasonably Itc should not have been able to rely on those contractual terms in 
the very particular circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore for all of these reasons I am satisfied that bringing the agreement to an end swiftly 
to stop more arrears building up was the most appropriate solution. 
I realise Miss C indicates that Itc got the wrong end of the stick because she did not want to 
cancel the agreement and she does not think she gave it the impression that she wanted to 
either. But Ive read the correspondence between them, and it reads as if cancelling the 
agreement was what she was asking Itc to do. So Ive no proper basis for saying Itc made a 
mistake in thinking this is what she wanted. And even if Miss C did not want to cancel the 
agreement I think in the circumstances it was the most appropriate option, as Ive already 
said.
According to the information Ive seen including the correspondence between the parties, Itc 
did not make several attempts to collect the car without telling Miss C about it. Rather it told her what it intended to do, and Miss C gave the impression she agreed with this course of 
action. So I dont agree Itc acted inappropriately. 
I take on board that Miss C was vulnerable due to her mental health issues and her caring 
responsibilities. Moreover, then sadly Miss C s relative became ill and subsequently Miss C 
was bereaved and that made her vulnerable too. And I think Itc knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that Miss C was a vulnerable consumer for these reasons.  
That said, nothing about how Itc went about trying to respond to Miss Cs requests for 
breathing space, and for further help with her financial difficulties makes me think it did not 
deal with her fairly given her vulnerabilities. In addition nothing about how Itc went about 
trying to end the agreement and collect its car makes me think that Itc did not treat Miss C 
fairly as a vulnerable consumer. 
Ive read the customer reviews Miss C sent in. But they dont tell me anything about what 
most likely happened in the very individual circumstances of this complaint and that is what 
Ive got to look at. For example they dont suggest that there is or was such a pattern of bad 
behaviour on Itcs part that I have to accept Itc likely customarily treated its customers, 
including Miss C, in an unfair manner.
I recognise that Miss C was going through a very tough time when the events covered in this 
complaint were unfolding. But since Ive not found that Itc acted inappropriately Ive no 
proper basis to say Itc must pay Miss C any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman