DRN-2841149
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT) mis-sold it 
commercial car insurance. Mr B, who is a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
Mr B, on behalf of M, took out a commercial car insurance policy through QMT in March 
2017. A new policy was taken out in May 2017, after it came to light QMT had made a 
mistake in setting up the original one. I understand Mr B, on behalf of M, renewed the policy 
through QMT in 2018 (and in subsequent years). 
In April 2018, a car insured under the policy was damaged when Mr B drove over a pothole. 
Initially, I believe Mr B tried to recover the repair costs directly from the third party contractor 
responsible for maintaining the road. Later on, Mr B used an accident management 
company to act on Ms behalf. 
Although the third party contractor admitted liability, it disputed Ms costs. The accident 
management company didnt resolve this dispute and later closed its file without having 
recovered any of Ms costs. It advised Mr B that, if M had legal expenses cover, he might 
want to contact that provider to take the claim forward.
Mr B complained to QMT and to the accident management company on Ms behalf. In his 
complaint to QMT, Mr B said the policy M was sold wasnt fit for purpose. He said the legal 
cover M got hadnt been exercised correctly and had scuppered the claim. 
QMT didnt uphold Ms complaint. It said (among other things) thered been some mistakes 
when the policy was first set up but these had been dealt with at the time at no extra cost to 
M. It also said M didnt take out legal expenses cover in 2017, and so didnt have this cover 
in place to assist with the claim.
Mr B brought Ms complaint about QMT to us. He says he was mis-sold legal expenses 
cover when he bought the car insurance. He says it wasnt fit for purpose and impeded Ms 
claim, despite the third party admitting liability. He wants to be paid for the storage charges 
M has incurred, for a full set of alloy wheels and for depreciation of the car.
The investigator who looked at Ms complaint didnt uphold it. He didnt think QMT had mis-
sold Ms insurance package because he didnt think Mr B had asked for, or been sold, legal 
expenses cover when the policy was taken out.
Mr B, on behalf of M, has asked for an ombudsman to review Ms complaint.
Mr B has also brought a complaint about the accident management company to us. I know 
hes heard from us separately about that complaint. But just to be clear, my decision here is 
only about Ms complaint about the sale by QMT of Ms car insurance policy, not about the 
accident management company complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms complaint. I know Mr B feels very strongly 
the complaint should be upheld. So my decision will disappoint him. But I hope the reasons 
Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached the conclusion I have.
Id also like to say Ive read carefully all the information Mr B and QMT have sent us thats on 
his case file. Ive made my decision on this complaint based only on that information and 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. From his case file, I can see Mr B has many 
worries about his family and how society is affecting it. I am sorry for the troubles he faces. 
But my role here is only to look at Ms complaint about how QMT sold the car insurance. I 
cant comment on anything else.
When QMT sold Mr B the car insurance on Ms behalf, it had a duty to give him information 
about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading, so he could decide for himself if it 
was right for his business.
From what Ive seen, the policy was sold over the phone. Ive listened to the calls QMT has 
sent us from when the policy was originally taken out in March 2017. I dont have any 
paperwork from the time but I dont think thats significant. Because the policy was sold over 
the phone, any paperwork is likely to have been sent out by QMT after the sale. So I 
wouldnt attach as much weight to anything in it as I would to a sales call itself. 
Theres nothing in these calls about legal expenses cover being asked for by M or being 
offered by QMT. Neither is there anything to suggest legal expenses cover was to be 
included as part of Ms insurance package. 
Ive also listened to the subsequent calls QMT has sent us when the policy was replaced in 
May 2017. Again, theres nothing about motor legal expenses cover being asked for, offered 
or included as part of the policy. 
This time, there is some paperwork Ive been able to look at. The welcome email Mr B was 
sent doesnt say anything about M having legal expenses cover. And theres also nothing 
about legal expenses cover in the Key Facts document Mr B was sent at this time. It isnt 
referred to as a benefit of the policy nor as one of its optional features.
Some car insurance policies  particularly for privately owned cars  include legal expenses 
cover as part of the policy (though for many its an add-on a customer pays for). In Ms case, 
though, Ive seen nothing to make me think legal expenses cover was included in this way. 
Nor do I have any information to suggest Mr B asked for legal expenses cover (or was 
offered it) and QMT didnt include it. So I dont think, on the information I have, legal 
expenses cover was part of the policy QMT sold M, nor sold by it as a separate product. 
That means I cant fairly and reasonably say QMT mis-sold the cover either when M took out 
the first policy, or when it was replaced a couple of months later.
I know Mr B is unhappy with the service he got from the accident management company. 
But the accident management company wasnt providing M with legal expenses cover under 
his car insurance policy. My understanding is Ms arrangement with the accident 
management company was separate from its relationship with QMT.
Mr M has mentioned some issues he had with QMT after M took the policy out in 2017, 
when QMT made a number of mistakes. QMT set out these mistakes when it sent Mr B its 
final response on Ms complaint. It also described what it had done at the time to resolve 
them. Both Mr B and QMT know what these mistakes were  so I dont need to list them here. But 
what I can say is they were to do with the setting up and administering of the policy. So 
these issues dont change my conclusions on this complaint about the policy sales. I know 
Mr M is frustrated that, even though the third party admitted liability, he hasnt been able to 
recover Ms costs for the car damage. But I cant fairly and reasonably say this means the 
car insurance policy  which didnt include legal expenses cover  was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman