DRN-2213788
The complaint
Mr S complains that PSA Finance UK Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr S acquired a car costing £18,795 funded by a deposit of £1,000 and the 
balance with a conditional sale agreement. It was some two to three months old and had 
covered 10 miles.
Not long after acquiring the car Mr S spotted scratches on the tailgate, the fascia and the 
passenger door. He also believed there was a burning smell coming from the engine. He 
complained to PSA on 30 March 2018. He was concerned that the car had been fitted with a 
replacement engine
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent inspector. This was carried out on 
2 May 2018. The engineer found no evidence to indicate the car had a replacement engine 
fitted, or that there was any burning smell. He reported that the car performed as it should.
PSA sent is final response letter not upholding the complaint on 24 May 2018. However, it 
said that if Mr M was to provide a quote for repairing the scratches from a reputable garage it 
may agree to reimburse him. Mr M had the work done at a cost of £478.29. PSA gave him is 
referral rights to this service including the six-month time limit.
In August 2019 Mr S noticed the car was making a grinding and rattling noise. He contacted 
the manufacturer and was advised to take it to a main dealer some 40 miles away. Mr M 
didnt feel safe driving that distance and he took the car to local dealer which repaired the 
drop-links at a cost of £143.71.
The invoice states: Check out noise, remove off side / near side front wheels, remove worn 
anti roll bar links, supply & fit new drop links, rebuild & test drive. The car had covered 
18,528 miles.
Mr S made a further complaint to PSA on 29 August 2019. He considered he had had 
numerous repairs carried out on the car for which he had incurred a lot of money. PSA said 
that the manufacturer had said asked Mr S to get a quote from an approved dealer but he 
had chosen to take it to an independent dealer and as such it wouldnt look to cover the cost.
Mr S then brought his complaint where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt believe it should be upheld. A second investigator reviewed that decision and came to 
the same conclusion.
Our investigator explained that our rules prevent us from considering complaints which are 
brought to us more than six months after the final response letter was issued. She said that 
we couldnt consider the complaint addressed by the business in its letter of 24 May 2018. 
She also said that the time limit did not apply if there were exceptional circumstances which 
had prevented Mr S bringing his complaint, but she couldnt identify any. Mr S hasnt put 
forward any grounds that could be deemed to be exceptional.
It was accepted that the car had a fault in that the drop-links were replaced at a cost of 
£143.71. This fault arose some 18 months after inception and when the car had done over 
18,000 miles. Our investigator didnt think this merited rejection. She noted that had Mr S 
taken the car to an approved garage PSA would most likely have covered the cost.
She recognised Mr S was unhappy with the car and took note of the other issues he had 
raised such as the burning smell. However, the car had been subjected to an independent 
inspection and no faults were found. She also said that our remit didnt extend to reviewing 
the price Mr S paid or the handling of his information requests which was a matter for the 
Information Commissioners Office.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PSA is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
In short, I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. The 
earlier issues raised by Mr S are not within my remit, as the second investigator has 
explained. This complaint is against the finance business PSA and I must consider its 
actions or lack of action. As such I cannot consider the service provided by the dealer or the 
manufacturer.
Because the earlier issues are out of time I will address my comments only to those which 
arose after the first final response letter. In essence this means the drop-link issue. 
Cars are mechanical items and they suffer from wear and tear. I have not seen any evidence 
to show why this repair was required. Nor have I seen anything to allow me to conclude that 
the fault was present at the point of sale. Mr S was able to drive the car for over 18,000 
miles in the first 18 months or so and it would appear had no problems with the drop-links 
until August 2019. The repair invoice does not tell me what caused the problem and Mr S 
has not advanced any specific reason.On balance, I can only presume it is a form of wear and tear. I would add that simply 
because a car has a fault that does not automatically mean that rejection is merited. The 
issue seems to have been fairly minor and easily repaired. I also think that had Mr S taken 
the car to an approved garage PSA would have covered the cost. He chose not to and I 
have noted his reasons, but it seems that he has been able to make extensive use of the 
car.
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy with the car for a variety of reasons and he has my sympathy, 
but I can find no grounds that would allow me to conclude the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman