DRN-2200148
The complaint
Mr M Complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his taxi 
insurance policy and refused a claim.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr M had a collision with another vehicle. He claimed on his Markerstudy 
taxi insurance policy. But it was concerned the damage claimed for was pre-existing. It 
thought the damage might have been already paid for by a cash settlement as part of a 2018 
claim. 
Markerstudy investigated further but wasnt satisfied with Mr Ms response to its concerns. 
He didnt explain where the 2018 damage had been repaired or provide any evidence of it 
happening. It felt Mr M was claiming for the same damage. It said he had given false 
testimony. So it cancelled his cover and refused to pay his claim  relying on a fraud 
condition in Mr Ms policy to do so. 
Mr M complained to Markerstudy. But it didnt change its position. So he came to this 
service. He said the policy had been cancelled unfairly. He sent us a 2018 invoice for repairs 
to his vehicle. We sent it to Markerstudy. It then agreed to consider the claim and remove 
records of the policy having been cancelled. But Mr M felt it should also provide him with an 
apology and compensation for distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Markerstudy pay Mr M any compensation or do anything 
differently. She said its decision to refuse the claim and cancel his policy had been fair 
based on the information it had at the time. She felt its decision, after receiving the repair 
invoice, to reinstate the policy and consider the policy was reasonable. Mr M didnt agree so 
his complaint has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy terms say fraudulent claims can invalidate his cover. Markerstudy relied on 
that term to do so. Fraud is a serious allegation. It can have consequences beyond the 
immediate cancellation of a policy and refusal of a claim. So an insurer should only rely on a 
fraud term where it has good reason to do so. Having considered everything, I think 
Markerstudys decision to rely on the fraud term was fair and reasonable  based on the 
information it had at the time. 
Its important to note that Markerstudy didnt say the 2019 incident didnt happen. Instead it 
was concerned the damage Mr M claimed for was pre-existing. It had paid for very similar 
damage to be repaired in the 2018 claim. So it suspected the 2018 damage hadnt been 
repaired  and Mr M was claiming for it again. 
Markerstudys provided the engineers reports from the 2018 and 2019 claim. I can see why 
it was concerned. The same parts are listed for repair in both. Some of the photos show very 
similar damage. So it was reasonable for Makerstudy to make further enquiries. 
An investigator interviewed Mr M for Markerstudy. It seems from his notes he asked about 
the repairs following the 2018 claim  including for details of the repairing garage and for 
documentary evidence, including invoices. The investigator says Mr M didnt explain where 
repairs had taken place or what repairs had been made. He says Mr M instead became 
defensive. 
It also seems, from claim notes, Mr M wasnt consistent about what damage happened in the 
2019 incident and what pre-existed it.  Considering all this Makerstudys decision, at the 
time, to rely on the fraud condition was fair and reasonable.
Mr Ms since provided an invoice for the 2018 damage repair. In response Markerstudy 
agreed to consider the claim. It says it will remove any cancellation or fraud markers 
recorded against Mr M. He shouldnt experience a longer-term impact from Markerstudys 
initial decision. So I feel its acted fairly and reasonably since receiving with the invoice.  
I accept there may be a genuine explanation for Mr Ms failure to explain where he had the 
repair work done  and for his inconsistency. But it wouldnt mean Markerstudys decision 
was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr M says this matter caused him considerable inconvenience and distress. I accept it may 
have. But I cant hold Markerstudy responsible for that. It had fair reason to be concerned. It 
made reasonable enquiries. Unfortunately, Mr M didnt explain where the repairs happened 
or offer to provide an invoice. If he had then the cancellation may not have happened. But I 
cant say this was Markerstudys was at fault.  
Mr Ms made references to letters from solicitors. Our investigator seems to have cleared 
those issues up for him. So I havent considered them here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited pay 
Mr M any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman