DRN-2805343
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited caused delay and poorly handled a
claim she made under her home insurance policy following a fire.
What happened
In November 2019 Miss J returned to her home to find it was damaged by fire. She
contacted her insurer, Ageas to make a claim.
It was already a very distressing time for Miss J and her adult son and daughter who lived
with her as they had very recently lost a member of their immediate family, and two other
close relatives.
Miss J has a disability and so does her daughter. There were disability aids in Miss Js home
which she and her daughter used. These items needed to be collected by a cleaning
contractor to decide if they could either be cleaned or require replacement.
Ageas arranged for Miss J and her children to live in hotel accommodation while they dealt
with her claim. Due to the extent of the damage, Ageas Loss Adjuster (LA) Mr W said it
would be several weeks before Miss J and her family could return. So a relocation company
on behalf of Ageas looked to find suitable alternative rental accommodation. In December
2019 they hadnt been able to find suitable accommodation. However, Miss J was able to.
And so on 8 January 2020 Miss J and her family moved into a rented house.
Miss J instructed her own loss adjuster, Mr L to assist with her claim. Mr L requested an
interim payment of £20,000 for the contents of Miss Js home that wouldnt be restorable. Mr
W on behalf of Ageas declined, but made a lower interim payment offer of £1,000.
In February 2020 Miss J complained to Ageas. She was unhappy with delays caused by Mr
W in approving interim payment costs. Miss J said she wanted help with payment towards
removing a fish tank in her loft.
In March 2020 Ageas said that Mr W had been in communication with Mr L about these
issues. Mr W said he was waiting for Mr L to give the go ahead for the cleaning contractor to
begin assessment of the contents to either clean or list as needing replacement. Without an
inventory of the replaced items, it couldnt say how much the costs to replace the ruined
items would be. So this was why it didnt agree to pay an arbitrary advance of £20,000  as it
said the claim amount could be less.
Ageas said it was for Mr L to agree a realistic interim payment with Mr W and to allow the
cleaning contractor to assess the contents. It said Mr L had provided an estimate for the
costs to move the fish tank and Mr W had agreed for the move to go ahead based on the
estimate of costs provided. So Ageas didnt uphold Miss Js complaint.
Miss J raised a further complaint with Ageas which it replied to in October 2020. The bath
required replacing as it couldnt be successfully cleaned. But the toilet and sink cleaned fine.
So Ageas said it would cover the costs to replace the bath. But it was no longer possible to
find a replacement bath to match the rest of the existing suite.
Mr L on behalf of Miss J asked Ageas to contribute 50% toward the costs of a replacement
sink and toilet, so that Miss J could have a matching suite.
Ageas didnt agree. It said their policy clearly excludes cover for matching items for Miss Js
circumstances.
Miss J asked us to look at her complaints. She explained that she and her daughter shared a
room for over a month in a hotel. Being without the disability aids they both needed meant
their stay was uncomfortable and caused additional distress at an already very difficult time.
Miss J told us she felt Ageas should have given priority to finding suitable rental
accommodation sooner. She said Ageas delayed having the contents of her home 
including the aids  assessed for cleaning. She felt Ageas should have provided an interim
payment for Miss J to buy replacement aids. Miss J explained that she had paid for the
funerals of family members and thought Ageas should have provided financial assistance to
help her during her claim.
Our investigator didnt find that Ageas was responsible for delays in the handling of the claim
which led to Miss J and her daughter not having access to disability aids. She thought it had
acted reasonably in giving the go ahead to Miss Js loss adjuster to arrange transportation of
the fish tank as it approved the costs to do so. And she didnt think it unreasonable for Ageas
not to provide an interim payment of £20,000 before it knew the value of the contents claim.
Our investigator considered the impact of Miss Js stay in hotel accommodation and thought
Ageas should pay compensation of £300. She noted that it was Miss J that found suitable
accommodation, rather than Ageas contractor. She thought Ageas should have done more
to find suitable accommodation for Miss J and her family sooner in light of their disability and
their recent personal loss.
The investigator followed our approach to complaints about matching sets. Although Ageas
policy says it doesnt provide cover for items in a set that arent damaged, we dont think its
fair for a customer to be left with a non-matching set if this wasnt the position before the
insured event. So balancing that with not providing a betterment situation, the investigator
recommended Ageas pay 50% of the costs to replace the remaining suite (meaning Miss J
contributes 50%) in order for her to maintain a matching suite when replacing the bath.
Ageas didnt agree. It said the inconvenience Miss J was caused by having to stay in hotel
accommodation wasnt the result of any mistake or service failure on their part. And it
didnt agree with the recommendation to make a contribution toward a matching set. So 
Ageas asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 April 2021. I thought Ageas should pay 50% of the costs 
to replace the remaining bathroom suite when replacing the bath. 
I thought Ageas had otherwise handled Miss J;s claim in a fair and reasonable way.
Miss J didnt reply to my provisional decision. Ageas has accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new comments or information to consider, my final decision 
remains along the same lines as my provisional decision.
Dealing with any claim, particularly a fire or flood damage claim will inevitably cause
disruption and inconvenience to the policyholder and their family members. This is because
the level of work often required to return a claim of this nature is often significant, and means
a great deal of upheaval for those involved. Unfortunately this inconvenience is unavoidable.
But Ive no doubt that having to move out of their home under these circumstances caused
Miss J and her family considerable distress. When looking at a case such as this, I need to
consider whether the insurer acted promptly and fairly in all the circumstances. So, I need to
look at what happened during the claim, and consider whether the insurer caused avoidable
delays, or could have dealt with the claim better.
I understand Miss J feels Mr W didnt give proper consideration to their situation in terms of
her and her daughters disability  and the grief the family were dealing with too.
Miss J appointed a loss adjuster Mr L to act on her behalf and much of the communication
during the claim was between him and Mr W, the loss adjuster acting on behalf of Ageas.
From the exchanges Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that Mr W caused undue delay in
arranging for the assessment of the contents of Miss Js home. In an interim report to Ageas,
Mr W said a contractor was ready to begin assessment. But Mr L wanted to consider an
alternative and so work was paused. In email exchanges Mr W reiterates that he is waiting
for Mr L to give the go ahead for the cleaning contractor to begin their work. So from what
Ive seen, I dont think Ageas was responsible for a delay between November 2019 and
March 2020 in the assessment of the contents.
The contents included disability aids which both Miss J and her daughter needed to be
comfortable. I understand that being without these items would have compounded the
distress and inconvenience of living somewhere other than home at such a difficult time.
I think Ageas acted promptly in arranging hotel accommodation for Miss J and her family
after the fire. I can appreciate that this wasnt ideal for Miss J and her family. But I think this
was a reasonable thing to do and in line with the policy, based on availability at short notice.
Ageas has provided a timeline and examples of available properties from its relocation
contractor. Ageas loss adjuster Mr W advised on 3 December 2019 that the scope of works
would mean that Miss J and her family wouldnt be able to return to their home for several
weeks. So I understand this is when searches began to find suitable rental accommodation
to meet Miss J and her daughters needs.
Searches were carried out on 4 December 2019. On 6 December 2019 a property was
identified, but this was deemed to be too far away. On the same day a further search was
carried out, but nothing else was available. So on 9 December 2019 Ageas considered the
possibility of accommodation with a temporary modular bathroom due to difficulties with the
search. This was discussed with Miss J on 10 December 2019.
Ageas says a temporary bathroom fitter was appointed to discuss this option further with
Miss J. In the same week, Ageas told Miss J that the hotel they were staying in wasnt
available from 24 to 27 December 2019. So this meant Miss J and her family would have to
move out to another hotel.
On 16 December 2019 Ageass notes show a further search was carried out, but nothing
suitable was available. However, Miss J contacted Ageas on 17 December 2019 as she hadfound suitable accommodation. Meanwhile Mr W, Ageas loss adjuster looked into setting up
a modular bungalow in the grounds of Miss Js home, but this wasnt deemed possible.
On 19 December 2019 Ageas was able to arrange a stay of up to six months for Miss J and
her family from 8 January 2020 at the home Miss J found.
Miss J has described the difficulties she and her family faced while living in hotel
accommodation. I understand that the upheaval of moving to hotel accommodation would be
considerable without a disability in any event, but its clear from Miss Js account that without
their disability aids, physical and emotional challenges were harder to deal with.
Ive carefully considered all of the information available and taken an even handed approach
in deciding whether Ageas did enough to secure suitable accommodation sooner for Miss J
and her family. Having done so, I think it did. I can see that the loss adjuster recognised from
his first report that Miss Js daughter has a disability. I think from the regular searches that
were carried out, it was clear that suitable local rental accommodation was more difficult to
find. Ive no way of knowing how long the accommodation Miss J found on 17 December
2019 was available for before she identified it. Taking everything into account, I think Ageas
has shown it took reasonable steps to find appropriate accommodation for Miss J and her
family, taking their needs into account, as soon as such accommodation was available.
I dont doubt that what Miss J and her family were going through at the time was very
upsetting and difficult. However, Im mindful of what was within Ageas control. Having done
so, I dont think Ageas in their role as her insurer dealing with the claim acted in an
unreasonable way. And as I dont think Ageas is responsible for the delay in assessing the
contents of Miss Js home, it follows that I cant hold it responsible for Miss J and her
daughter not having access to their disability aids sooner. So this means I dont think it
should compensate Miss J for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
When Ageas were made aware of the fish tank in the loft, their loss adjuster Mr W explained
that the cleaning contractor didnt handle tropical fish and so asked Mr L on behalf of Miss J
to obtain an estimate. Having done so, Mr W approved the estimate for the removal of the
fish tank. So I cant say that Ageas or their loss adjuster acted unreasonably here.
In October 2020 Ageas told Miss J that it wasnt possible to clean the smoke damage from
her bath. The contractor had tried to obtain a matching bath to go with the existing set, but
none was available. Mr L asked Ageas to contribute 50% toward the costs of the remaining
suite, so that Miss J had a matching set. But Ageas didnt agree. Its relied on its policy which
says:
Matching sets & suites
We treat each separate item of a matching pair, set or suite of furniture, soft
furnishings, bathroom suite or other fixtures and fittings as a single item. If an item
thats part of a matching set or suite is damaged, well aim to repair it or provide an
identical replacement. However, if its not possible to provide a suitable repair or
replacement, well only pay for the damaged item. Just to be clear, well not make
any contribution for undamaged items that are part of a set or suite.
I agree that Ageas policy wording is clear. However, we look at what is fair and reasonable
as well as what the policy says  and I dont think its fair in this case for Miss J to be left with
a loss of match in her bathroom as a result of her claim. So in line with our approach, I think
a fairer outcome is for Ageas to contribute 50% of the costs to replace the remaining items in
the bathroom set as well as covering the costs to replace the smoke damaged bath, which 
Ageas accepts.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final  decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to contribute 50% toward the costs of the remaining 
bathroom set so that it matches the replacement bath for Miss J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman