DRN-4266259
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr T was sold PPI in 2002 at the same time as taking out the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS only has limited paperwork available from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising 
given the time that has elapsed. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr T says he was told he had to buy the PPI if he wanted the mortgage to be granted. 
From what we know of BoSs usual sales process at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr T has said. Ive no doubt that he has provided his 
honest recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if his memory has faded.
On balance, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that Mr T wasnt given a choice about 
buying the policy. I consider it more likely than not that Mr T decided to buy the PPI, knowing 
that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
This was an advised sale. So, in recommending the policy to Mr T, BoS needed to ensure 
that it met his needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, the policy was 
suitable for him.
Mr T says he would have found another job if he had been made redundant. But the policy 
would have provided a useful breathing space whilst he looked for another job. And it also 
covered him against accident and sickness.
Mr T would have received less than three months pay from his employer if he was off sick 
from work. It should be noted that the policy could have paid out for up to 24 months per 
claim.
Mr T says he would have sold his property if the mortgage became unaffordable. But having 
the PPI would have meant that he wouldnt have had to resort to such drastic measures and 
could have kept his home.
Overall, it seems to me that Mr T had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have been a difficult time. 
BoS also needed to provide Mr T with sufficient information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about taking out the policy. Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much 
information as it should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T 
wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical 
condition that would have been excluded under the policy. As I consider that he had an 
interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have 
caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have 
done wrong, so there is nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman