DRN-3160490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have 
dealt with information regarding their claim which was declined. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out home insurance with Admiral. In January 2020 Mr and Mrs L made a 
claim on their policy for storm damage to a boundary wall. Admiral instructed a surveyor to 
attend and assess the damage. The claim was declined, and nothing was paid out to Mr and 
Mrs L. Admiral recorded the claim and their surveyors costs of £125 on an industry 
database.
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to Admiral. They said they werent told that the 
claim would be registered against their policy. They said that they received no payment for 
the claim so didnt understand why there was a cost associated with it. They were unhappy 
that this could affect the cost of future insurance. 
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that the £125 cost related to the 
surveyors visit to the property to assess the damage. As a claim was made, and costs were 
incurred, they were right to include this on the insurance industry database.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. They said that they 
were not made aware that the claim would be recorded when it was declined. They said that 
this has resulted in embarrassment as it has come up on applications for alternative 
insurance. They would like the claim removed from the records and compensation for the 
embarrassment caused.   
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that Admiral had done anything 
wrong. She said that they followed standard industry practice by recording the claim and 
costs on the database. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for the matter to be considered 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There does not appear to be any dispute that in January 2020 Mr and Mrs L made a claim 
on their policy for damage to a wall, and that the claim was declined. Admiral have signed up 
to an insurance industry database which records information about all incidents and claims, 
including those which are declined. As a result, there was a duty on Admiral to record 
information about Mr and Mrs Ls claim on the database. Recording matters on the database 
is standard industry practice, and insurers use this information to assess risk and prevent 
fraud. 
There is a duty for insurers to make accurate records, and this includes recording all costs 
associated with a claim. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ls claim was declined and that they 
received no payment themselves, but they still contacted Admiral about a claim and £125 
were incurred. As the requirement is for all costs to be recorded, this service considers it 
reasonable for these costs to be included on the database. I therefore dont think that 
Admiral have acted unfairly by recording all the claim information, including the costs. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs L say that they were unaware that their claim was to be 
recorded in this way. Ive looked at the Home Proposal Confirmation document that was sent 
to Mr and Mrs L when they took out their policy. I note that in the declaration section it states 
that information about incidents will be passed to industry databases so that it can be made 
available to other insurers. I appreciate that this is in small print, but they were advised in the 
covering letter to read all the information provided. 
Mr and Mrs L say they have been caused embarrassment by finding out that their claim 
information was recorded on the database when making other applications for insurance. 
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs L are upset about this, I dont think it fair to hold Admiral 
responsible. Most insurers will ask about claims history during an application. I dont know 
what specific information was requested from Mr and Mrs L, but any new insurer will check 
information given on the database.
Mr and Mrs L are concerned that the database is in effect a blacklist. The inclusion of their 
claim on the database shouldnt prevent them obtaining insurance in the future, although I 
cant say that it wont have any effect on their insurance applications. This will be a matter for 
each individual insurance company. However, I dont think Mr and Mrs L have been treated 
differently to any other consumer in their situation, and so I dont think that Admiral have 
done anything wrong.
I know that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs L were hoping for, but I hope they 
understand my reasoning.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman