DRN-2940184
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that she wasnt told how her credit record would be affected when her 
account with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited was put on hold. 
Clydesdale Financial Services trade as Barclays Partner Finance. For ease, Ill just refer to 
Barclays in the decision. 
What happened
Mrs O called Barclays in January 2020. Shes said that the purpose of the call was to 
discuss the interest charged on her loan, which she felt was too high. She also asked for 
support because she had an injury that meant she wasnt working. Mrs O said they agreed 
shed stop making repayments while Barclays reviewed the matter. She said she wasnt told 
this would be recorded with credit reference agencies. If she had been, she wouldve carried 
on making repayments, as it wasnt the case that she was unwilling or unable to. 
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a call recording, but theyve provided the notes its 
agent took from the call from January. These say: 
Fracture leg in the October 30 since then you are not working, in the past 4 months 
using credit cards, still on medication and still seeing a doctor, and it would take 
about a year, no benefit, no other financial support, priority bills  rent behind, no 
arrangement, other creditors  all are behind, MDI  negative, SCDC: accepted, 
solution  hold 30 days. Future sustainability  not sure, CRA  advised, DEMS  
completed.
There are further notes of a call between Mrs O and Barclays, that I understand took place in 
March 2020: 
Health is affecting her finances need further support from SST team . Bills: rent 
behind  fracture leg in the October 30 since then you are not working, in the past 6 
months using credit cards, present: still on medication and still seeing a doctor, and it 
would take about a year future: may have to have plate on the leg / might to operate 
again on her leg / doctors are going to change stronger meds for next 6 month have 
[credit] card but dont want to inform them about her health other creditors:: [*]  / 
financial difficulty: Yes action: vul tag updated SCDC referred: number given will talk 
to them customer was shocked after knowing about interest on the a/c every month 
and wasnt happy about that / warm transfer to complaints team CRA: informed 
DEMS: not required
On 11 April 2020, Barclays sent Mrs O a default notice. This explained she was £567.18 in 
arrears and that she needed to repay this amount by 14 May 2020. If she couldnt, she was 
asked to call Barclays.  
On 30 April 2020, Barclays replied to Mrs Os complaint about the interest charged  it said 
she agreed to the loan, including the interest and term, when she signed the credit 
agreement. It also said that it had passed her account to a specialist support team, who 
would be in touch in due course. 
The account defaulted in May 2020. In June 2020, there was a call between the specialist 
support team and Mrs O. When she was told about the recorded default, Mrs O said shed 
not been told that the missed payments would be reported to credit reference agencies. In 
response, Barclays said its agent told her this back in January 2020. 
Mrs O didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. After investigating, our investigator 
concluded the complaint should not be upheld because it was likely that Barclays had told 
her about how it would record information, and that its action to place the account on hold 
was fair given Mrs Os circumstances.
Mrs O doesnt agree. She says that she wanted Barclays to consider reducing her interest 
rate  and that she wouldve kept paying while it reviewed this if shed known about how it 
would affect her credit file. She points out that her income didnt drop. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons.
Ive reviewed the call notes from January and March 2020. These say CRA:  advised and 
CRA  informed  with CRA standing for credit reference agencies. Of course, this 
doesnt tell me exactly what was said. But, given how information about Mrs Os account 
was in fact reported to CRAs, I think it logically follows that the conversation was infoming or 
advising her of this. It seems unlikely both agents wouldve incorrectly told her that there 
would be no effect  and felt the need to leave a note about it. 
As Mrs O has pointed out, these are only notes  there are no call recordings available. So I 
accept its possible that Mrs O wasnt told and theyre not accurate. But civil disputes like 
these are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities  in other words, whats more 
likely than not to have happened. And, given that the call notes were left at the time of the 
calls (as opposed to recollections months later), and that there are two records that mention 
it, I think its more likely than not that a dicussion took place. 
In saying this, Ive considered Mrs Os point that it doesnt make sense she was told about 
this and still agreed to the hold. Thats because shed the abilility to keep up with the existing 
repayments, and this coversation was mainly to see if the interest could be reduced. But 
both call notes suggest that Mrs O had descibled financial difficulties  noting that she was 
using credit cards and that she behind with her bills, including her rent. And the notes 
suggest that the interest was only raised in March, which was after the hold was agreed in 
January. So this doesnt change my mind.  
Even if I was to give Mrs O the benefit of the doubt, Barclays also sent a default notice in 
April 2020. This set out the arrears and that, if she didnt take action by May 2020, the CRAs 
would be notified that the account was in default. So, if Barclays was mistaken about Mrs Os ability to repay or Mrs O didnt realise the effects on her credit record, Id have expected 
her to have responded to this. But theres no evidence of any contact by the date given  
hence why the defaulted was recorded.
Overall, while Barclays needs to treat customers who are struggling fairly, it also has an 
obligation to provide an accurate reflection of the account to CRAs. Here, I think its more 
likely than not that Barclays raised how information would be reported with the hold in place. 
And given that three repayments were missed and a notice of default given, I think it was 
reasonable these were recorded and the default was registered.   
Mrs O has also mentioned her concerns with how this loan was originally sold. To be clear, 
this decision has only considered the information recorded to credit reference agenies in 
2020  so that would be a separate matter.
I know Mrs O feels very strongly about this. Ive considered her points carefully but, in all, I 
think Barclays acted fairly here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman