DRN-2276643
The complaint
Mr H complains that RCI Financial Services Limited has not acted in accordance with the 
terms of his hire agreement. He wants to be permitted to reduce the amount of contracted 
mileage and thereby lower the monthly payments.
What happened
Mr H tells us that he entered a hire agreement in February 2018. The agreement related to a 
battery to be installed in an electric vehicle. The hire agreement which was of three years 
duration allowed for a maximum contracted mileage of 18,000 miles. Mr H says that clause 
5.1 of the agreement allows the contracted mileage to be amended before the final three 
months. He says that when he requested RCI reduce it to 13,500 miles and recalculate the 
monthly payment from the start of the agreement  based on the lower mileage  it declined 
his request.
RCI told us that it had explained to Mr H that it was unable to offer a refund for mileage 
amendments. As any agreed changes are only effective from the date of the request. It said 
it had offered him a £20 gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
RCI had done anything wrong. And he didnt accept the agreement contained provision for 
monthly payments to be reduced retrospectively in the light of unused mileage.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint is directed towards a particular clause in the finance agreement which he 
feels should enable him to lower the contracted mileage. Thus reducing the monthly 
payments and enabling him to obtain a refund. And I can understand why Mr H would be 
disappointed that his request to amend the agreement in the way he wished wasnt accepted 
by RCI.
The relevant clause 5.1 reads:
"At any time prior to the final 3 months of the Minimum Period, you may ask us to vary the 
Maximum Contractual Mileage. We will consider your request provided that the Maximum 
Contractual Mileage will not be extended beyond 120,000 miles."
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
I think it might be helpful to explain my role. This service offers an informal dispute resolution 
process. I dont apply the law  directly  but I take it into account. 
In the context of this complaint that means Im not able to decide on what the legal effect of 
the disputed clause may be. A court would determine such an issue based on the rules of 
interpretation it applies. My determination of this complaint is based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. Although  as the starting point of court interpretation is that words are 
to be given their ordinary and natural meaning - I doubt in this case whether the outcome 
would be different.
Its correct to say that the term vary might equally describe a downward movement as an 
upward one. Although I find it more probable than not that in the context of this particular 
clause it relates to maximum mileage. And is designed to accommodate those who wish to 
increase the mileage allowance beyond that initially contracted.
I dont concur with the hypothesis advanced by Mr H, that if its possible to adjust the 
contract retrospectively by increasing the mileage, then by implication it should be capable of 
a downward retrospective adjustment. A business is able to offer such terms to its customers 
as it deems appropriate. And customers are able to accept or decline as they see fit. If there 
is anything that a customer considers ambiguous, its open to them to query this prior to 
entering the agreement.
But even if Im wrong about this, the clause simply provides a means by which the consumer 
may seek a variation. It doesnt expressly state or imply that one will be granted. So RCI 
wasnt obliged to meet Mr Hs request.
Mr H entered the agreement which contained provision for use of the battery up to 18,000 
miles within the three year period. Thats what RCI provided. The facility was there for Mr H 
to use it if he chose to do so. And if, as seems probable, he overestimated the mileage he 
would need thats not something over which RCI would have any control.
I dont find that its fair and reasonable to expect that RCI adjust the terms retrospectively. 
Its offered to provide Mr H with a new agreement going forward, based on the reduced 
mileage hes now indicated. 
In summary, the agreement was freely entered by both parties. The terms were set out and 
as far as Im aware both parties have adhered to the agreed conditions.
I dont find that RCI has acted unfairly. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint,
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman