DRN-4096039
The complaint
H, a limited company, has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited rejected a claim for 
business interruption losses under its property owners insurance policy. The complaint has 
been brought by Mr R on behalf of H.
What happened
H owns a commercial property which it let out to a tenant for use as a club. In 2020 the 
tenant was forced to close its business temporarily due to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. 
According to H, the tenant said it would put itself into liquidation if H didnt agree that it could 
have a rent holiday. 
H agreed to suspend the rent for so long as the premises were forced to close and made a 
claim under the business interruption section of its policy for three months loss of rent.
After considering the lease between H and the tenant, Aviva said that under the lease the 
rent only had to be suspended if the property or any part of it should be damaged or 
destroyed by any of the insured risks so as to be unfit for occupation and use. As the 
property hadnt been so damaged or destroyed, it thought the tenant was contractually 
obliged to pay the rent and Hs decision to allow the tenant to stop paying rent didnt give 
rise to a loss covered by the policy. 
As H was unhappy with this, it brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Aviva had treated H unfairly. 
As H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. As I understand it, Mr Rs main 
arguments are:
Under the lease H agreed to insure the property for such risks as it thought fit.
H had thought fit to insure against an outbreak of a notifiable human disease.
Hs property had been affected by an outbreak of a notifiable human disease i.e. 
Covid-19.
H had suffered a loss as the tenant had ceased to pay rent due to Covid-19. 
The policy covered loss of rent.
The loss ought to be covered by the policy. 
Although the lease said that rent would be suspended if the property were damaged 
or destroyed by an insured peril, H and the tenant had agreed to vary the lease so 
that rent was suspended because of Covid-19.
H did not need Avivas approval to vary the lease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial impact on Hs business caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
The policy provides cover for a number of situations. The sections most relevant to this 
complaint are Section 2 Loss of Rent and the extension for Murder Suicide or Disease. Ill 
look at these in turn.
Section 2 states:
The Insurer(s) will pay in respect of BUILDINGS which have suffered DAMAGE
a) Loss of RENT being
The actual amount of the reduction in the RENT receivable by the Insured during the 
INDEMNITY PERIOD solely in consequence of the DAMAGE.
The term DAMAGE is defined as loss destruction or damage.
Whilst I appreciate that the pandemic caused substantial economic loss, I havent seen any 
evidence that it caused damage to Hs buildings. So, I dont think Aviva treated H unfairly in 
not considering a claim under this part of the policy.
One of the extensions to the policy relates to murder, suicide and disease. It says:
The Insurer(s) shall indemnify the Insured in respect of loss of RENT  (notwithstanding 
any requirement for DAMAGE to BUILDINGS) resulting from interruption of or interference 
with the BUSINESS during the INDEMNITY PERIOD following
a.Any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the local 
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by any person whilst in the 
PREMISES or within a 25 mile radius of it.
Mr R has argued that a risk insured against had occurred, namely the outbreak of a 
notifiable disease. That doesnt appear to be disputed. The Insured is H and its business is 
that of a commercial landlord. The key issue for me to decide is whether or not there has 
been an interruption of or interference with Hs business. 
Under the lease entered into between H and its tenant the insured risks are the usual perils 
such as fire, flood etc and such other risks (if any) as the Landlord (acting reasonably) may 
think fit. 
With regard to suspension of rent the lease provides that if the property or any part of it is 
damaged or destroyed by any of the insured risks, the rent would be suspended. So 
potentially an insured risk could include an outbreak of Covid-19. However, this insured risk 
would still need to have damaged or destroyed the property to make it unfit for use or 
occupation. Aviva argued that there hadnt been any damage or destruction to the property.I need to decide whether a court would consider the lease to require physical damage in 
relation to the suspension of rent clause. Some recent court judgments are helpful in this 
respect, namely Commerz Real Investmentgesellschaft MBH v TFS Stores Ltd [2021] 
EWHC 863 (Ch) and Bank of New York Mellon (International) Ltd v Cine-UK Ltd [2022] 
EWCA Civ 1021.
These judgments considered whether rent was due from businesses which were interrupted 
due to the pandemic. The courts found that suspension of rent clauses only applied where 
there had been physical damage. And that the relevant insurance the landlords had taken 
out only provided cover for loss of rent to the landlord where the tenant was not legally 
obliged to pay the rent rather than where the tenant chose not to pay. Whilst these cases 
were decided on their own facts, I am required to take into account the relevant law and I 
consider that the same principles apply here.
It would make sense that rent should only be suspended where there had been an event 
within the control of the landlord to resolve. For example, if the property had been damaged 
by a flood, it would be for the landlord to restore the property to an appropriate condition and 
until that had been done, it would be unfair for the tenant to be obliged to continue to pay 
rent. However, where an event such as a government-enforced lockdown has taken place 
about which the landlord had no control, it would not appear reasonable for the tenant to 
hold the landlord responsible for resolving this and rent would remain payable under the 
lease. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say that it wasnt liable to pay loss of rent as 
there hadnt been any damage or destruction to the property triggering the suspension of 
rent clause in the lease.
Mr R has argued that H and the tenant agreed to vary the lease so that the tenant was not 
legally obliged to pay rent whilst the premises were closed due to lockdown. In effect he is 
saying they agreed to extend the scope of the suspension of rent clause. Mr R is right in 
saying that H was free to do this without Avivas consent. However, that doesnt mean it 
would be fair for H to be able to recover under its policy with Aviva loss of rent that it had 
voluntarily agreed to. It would be for the tenant to take out its own business interruption 
insurance against such the risk of a notifiable disease closing its premises as opposed to the 
landlords insurance being extended to cover the effect of this risk on the tenant.
Unfortunately for H, I do not think Aviva has treated it unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman