DRN-4259237
Complaint
Mrs T complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in a bond issued by Basset & 
Gold Plc (B&G plc). She says she was not told what would be done with the money 
invested in the bond, and that it could only be promoted to certain types of investors. She 
would like to be compensated for the loss of capital suffered by the investment. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs T invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of these 
bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the 
issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. And it was 
responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to 
call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not 
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this 
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an 
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of 
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs T interacted with, but 
the point of dispute is noted and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs T actually dealt 
with BGF instead.
Mrs T and the investment in the bond
Mrs T invested a total of £20,000 in the bond. This followed some phone discussions 
between Mrs T (and her husband) and a representative of BG Ltd. The administrators of BG 
Ltd have provided some recordings of phone calls, but none which pre date the investment  
so I do not know the detail of what was discussed. 
BG Ltds log of applications records the following:
The certificate for the bond records the application date as 29 January 2018. 
When asked about her recollections of the application process Mrs T told us: 
Type Date Type Date
Advised Investor 2018-01-29 12:15:22 KYC Completed 2018-01-29 15:27:09
GDPR Applicant 2018-07-31 21:02:04
B&G T&C Confirmed 2018-01-29 12:19:23
ISA T&C Confirmed 2018-01-29 12:19:20
Completed Investor Questionnaire2018-01-29 12:17:49Investor Tags Legal TagsMy recollection of the application process is that it consisted of a fairly brief telephone call 
from the B&G advisor. I have a letter confirming the purchase of the bond dated 29th 
January 2018 which refers to an on-line bond application and makes reference to the bond 
invitation. I have no copy of that on-line application nor any recollection of it: and I only saw 
the invitation document when Gallium sent it to me in my exchanges with them in 2021. 
Your email indicates that the B&G records you have seen indicate I was an 'advised 
investor' i.e. that I had received professional financial advice. This was not the case. I was 
not the client of any financial advisor, did not receive advice about the investment and did 
not indicate to B&G that I had received any such advice. We engaged the services of a 
financial advisor only in 2021 - in part because of our experience in relation to B&G.
Mrs T has told us her only investment experience was with investment bonds and cash ISAs. 
At the time she invested Mrs T was retired, and the money she invested formed part of her 
general savings. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs T 
has not had hers invested capital returned to him.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show 
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two 
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification. The second was the appropriateness test. 
However, as set out above, Mrs T does not recall an online application and says her 
application was made during a brief phone call with BG Ltds representative. I have seen no 
evidence of any application process completed by Mrs T, beyond what is recorded on BG 
Ltds log, copied above. 
Galliums response to Mrs Ts complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It said BGF was regulated and authorised by the 
FCA from 2 January 2018 and, as Mrs Ts bond was issued after that date, BGF was 
responsible for the promotion of the bond. 
Gallium then made further submissions, once Mrs Ts complaint was referred to us. I have 
considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium describes as its 
position statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints 
about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ts complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
They had thought about whether Mrs T would have qualified as any of the categories 
of investor type eligible to receive promotions of the bond. Given her assets, Mrs T 
may have qualified as a High Net Worth investor.So Mrs T may have met the requirements of one of the categories set out the 
relevant rules.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for Mrs T was misleading and 
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked 
Mrs T about hers knowledge and experience then BG Ltd ought to have reasonably 
concluded that Mrs T did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to make 
the bond an appropriate investment for her. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs T wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs T to invest. For these reasons it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs T for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
It notes we accept Mrs T satisfied the criteria to be classified as a High Net Worth 
investor.
The appropriateness test answers and the confirmations Mrs T gave were sufficient 
for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs T made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with 
them, and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
Gallium also made submissions on what it describes as the interim period. On this point 
Gallium said, in summary:
Basset Gold Finance (BGF) was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and 
began to promote the bonds to investors from that date. In particular, it understands 
that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. 
At no point was BGF an appointed representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no 
responsibility for the actions of BGF. Our investigator has not found that Mrs T 
actually spoke to anyone at B&G plc and BG Ltd for whose conduct Gallium had any 
responsibility, or that Gallium actually approved the content of the website through 
which Mrs T invested and which contained the certification and appropriateness 
questions which form the basis for the view. Rather, the available evidence suggests 
that Mrs T applied to invest through a website process approved by BGF.
Gallium also provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023, 
which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making 
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond 
investments.
It is his understanding that: 
oSave in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold representatives 
and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim period all 
regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, 
were conducted by BGF 
oBG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between 
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA.  The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but 
she recalls what was discussed. 
I asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is said in the 
witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. At the time of issuing 
my provisional decision I had not received a response to that request. However, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision  which I quote below  I was satisfied I could 
proceed with this particular complaint without that further information. 
My provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows: 
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s) 
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whether we can consider Mrs Ts complaint. 
It is not clear how exactly Mrs Ts application came about, and therefore on what basis it 
proceeded. Based on the available evidence it seems BG Ltds representative may have 
completed an online form on Mrs Ts behalf during a phone call with her. Ill consider this 
further later in this decision. But, for now, it is sufficient to say Mrs Ts complaint is about the 
arrangement of her investment in the bond and the exchanges she had with the 
representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In 
short Mrs T says she was misled during those exchanges. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA): 
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative 
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs Ts complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by 
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility. 
Is Mrs Ts complaint about a regulated activity? 
I am satisfied Mrs Ts complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or 
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs T made her investment, the RAO 
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and 
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients 
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the 
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the 
application process  whether it took place online and/or over the phone - falls within the 
scope of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mrs T to invest in the bond, and 
had the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about? 
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in 
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company 
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its 
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing 
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to 
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same. 
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  29 January 
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it. 
I note Gallium, in its response to the view, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote 
the bonds to investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF 
from that date. However  save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points 
and in any event inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has 
provided no evidence to support this point. 
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was 
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case. 
Mrs T made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), having been 
told by Gallium that BGF was responsible (BGF is in FSCS default). The FSCS rejected the 
claim, concluding Gallium was responsible. The FSCS did not refer to any evidence specific 
to Mrs Ts investment but said it had concluded, generally, that Basset Gold Limited, an 
appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited were responsible for the 
promotion and arranging of bonds issued by Basset & Gold plc at the time of your 
investment in January 2018.I share the view of the FSCS. I have seen the following evidence:  
A letter to Mrs T dated 15 February 2018 confirming the investment in the bond 
had been made, and attaching a certificate. This letter was from BG Ltd and the 
address given was 23 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7EA - BG Ltds registered 
addresses around that time. 
An email to Mrs T dated 29 January 2019 confirming receipt of the application to 
invest in the bond, from a Dedicated Relationship Manager at BG Ltd, with an 
email footer which confirms Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, reference number 487176.
In my view this demonstrates BG Ltd was responsible for arranging the investment, not BGF. 
I think both pieces of correspondence are strong evidence BG Ltd  and therefore Gallium  
is responsible for arranging the investment in the bond. 
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs T applied to invest through a website 
process approved by BGF. In my view it is not clear whether Mrs T applied online at all. But I 
have not, in any event, seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. As I have set out, I 
have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF- 
all references are to BG Ltd.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January 
2018, as Gallium response to the investigators view says, or that it had any involvement in 
Mrs Ts investment. All the evidence I have seen supports a contrary position. 
All in all, I am satisfied Mrs Ts complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted 
responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint 
against it.
The merits of Mrs Ts complaint 
As I am satisfied Mrs Ts complaint is one I can look at I will now consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they 
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall 
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
It is not completely clear how Mrs T came to be categorised as an advised investor.
Nor does it seem an online application was completed by Mrs T  it instead seems
the application may have been completed over the phone with BG Ltds
representative.
Ultimately, Mrs T had to fall under one of the investor categories set out in COBS
4.7.9R and COBS 4.7.10R in order to be eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of
the bond. Her being an advised investor  and there is in any event no evidence to
show she received advice from an authorised financial advisor - was not a basis on
which a direct offer promotion could be made by BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf.
Mrs T may, in principle, have met the definition of a High Net Worth investor. But it
does not follow she would have signed the statement associated with such a
categorisation. And, even if she did, she still had to complete an appropriateness test
which was consistent with the relevant rules, and BG Ltd had to consider whether to
proceed, in the light of the outcome of that test.
If an appropriateness test was carried out by BG Ltd, the test it used did not meet the
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond
was not an appropriate investment for Mrs T.
Alternatively, if no appropriateness test was carried out by BG Ltd there was no basis
consistent with the rules - on which the investment in the bond could have
proceeded.
Either way, in the circumstances, Mrs T would not or could not have proceeded or,
acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the
bond to Mrs T.
Overall, I am satisfied Mrs T would either not have proceeded to make the
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Ts complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs T would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs T for her loss.
Response to my provisional decision 
In response to my provisional decision Gallium provided a general submission which 
contained some further evidence relating to what it describes as the interim period. This 
included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018. 
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
representative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails. 
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds compliance officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed representative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons. 
A list of calls made by BG Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month. 
Mrs T accepted my provisional decision.  
My findings 
I have first reconsidered the interim period point. I have reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider Mrs Ts complaint  i.e. whether 
Gallium is responsible for the act(s) this complaint relates to. I have not been persuaded to 
change my view on this point. 
I have carefully considered the additional evidence Gallium has submitted but, in my view, 
this only further supports the conclusion that Gallium was responsible for making 
arrangements for Mrs T to invest in the bond and the complaint is therefore one we can 
consider against it. 
The 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in the witness 
statement includes the following: 
As you know we have applied for authorisation with a new company a few months ago and I 
am happy to inform you that we have now been authorised.
 As discussed we will transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm, 
but wanted to discuss with you the best way to get this done. I will be in London next week 
on Thursday if you would like to meet.
 As far as ISA manager goes, this will stay as is, as agreed.
 Please let me know if you have any matters you think we should take into consideration and 
as always any advice and guidance will be greatly appreciated.
In the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report the following 
questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify the firm 
as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And have you provided 
copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior 
to promotion and such categories kept on file? 
Each of these questions was answered Yes. Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a 
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs Ts 29 
January 2018 investment. 
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed 
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the 
activities of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made 
promotions and arranged investments. 
The copy of the report we have been given also features a post-it note stuck to the report of 
all the investment business, which says: 
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7. They may need to consider new 
loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as terminating end of Feb, but 
worth mentioning to them
Finally, I note the Call Monitoring List provided by Gallium shows it monitored 11 calls in 
January 2018  more than it had monitored in any previous month during its relationship with 
BG Ltd. 
In my view this is all evidence BG Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  
including the investment Mrs T made  at the time of Mrs Ts investment, as was doing so as 
an appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time. 
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence BG Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by BG Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time. 
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018. 
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from BG Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place. 
It also remains the case, as I set out in my provisional decision, that I have not seen any 
evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, in making the arrangements. BG Ltd was carrying out 
business for which Gallium had accepted responsibility. So I remain of the view I set out in 
my provisional decision, quoted above (which, to be clear forms part of this final decision) for 
the reasons given there, and the further reasons set out above.  
Turning to the merits of Mrs Ts complaint again, Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have not been persuaded to change the view set out in my provisional decision. To 
confirm, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. For those reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that 
Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs T would either not have 
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium 
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is 
fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs T for her loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs T 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs T's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs T's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mrs T £250 for the distress caused by the complete loss of her investment.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per year from final 
decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs T agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs T that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs T's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs T would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman