DRN-2742571
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted its bank accounts 
and removed a payment it had received.
What happened
P found that its account had been restricted on 2 January 2019. When it contacted Barclays, 
it was told that this was due to an internal review. It found out that a credit for £700 had been 
debited from its account because a scam had been reported. P says that this was a buyer 
seller dispute and Barclays didnt have reasonable grounds to restrict the use of the 
companys and connected accounts or remove this money. 
Barclays said it applied restrictions on 31 December 2018 in line with its internal processes. 
And it accepted that the full review wasnt completed within the 10 working days it aimed for. 
So, it offered to pay P £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than this. He said that Barclays 
had received a report that the payment into Ps account arose from a scam. Barclays was 
reasonably able to restrict the accounts to investigate this and was required to ensure it 
addressed such claims. It decided to return the funds having taken into account what P had 
told it. He noted that P had requested £20,000 for the impact of the inconvenience, stress, 
humiliation and anxiety and for Barclays unreasonable and irrational conduct especially 
given Ps long banking relationship and track record. But he didnt agree that Barclays had 
acted unreasonably and thought the compensation for the delay in concluding the review to 
be reasonable.
P didnt agree. It said that it wanted the complaint to be reviewed and for an ombudsman to 
explain which parts of the report about the payment caused Barclays reasonably to think that 
it was connected to any fraud or criminal activity. It said that anyone can make such a claim 
but that there needed to be evidence to believe this may be true. P said it didnt think that its 
complaint letter and supporting information had been properly considered. It wanted 
evidence of consideration of each point that had been raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent the regulator  so we dont 
have a role in saying what processes Barclays puts in place. I am going to be determining 
what the relevant issues are here in the complaint and explaining my reasoning for my 
decision. And I need to say to P as a result that although I have considered everything P has 
said I wont be commenting on every point raised in the letter as it asks.
P explains the contact it had with Barclays when it found out its account was restricted. It 
was initially told that it could make payments in a branch provided it evidenced the source of 
the money. But that when it visited a branch that its paperwork wasnt sufficient. I understand 
that by 4 January 2019 P was able to make online payments again and Ive seen these were 
then processed from looking at its bank statement. 
P noticed that the £700 had been debited and this was eventually returned on 22 January 
2019 after the investigation had concluded. Barclays accepted that this took longer than it 
expected and during this time acknowledges the inconvenience caused. It also agreed to 
reopen the complaint from P who didnt agree that this had been resolved or that the 
summary resolution Barclays had sent was adequate.
P has said that it has had discussions with the person who sent the money. And that this 
individual now claims that he didnt say that this was a scam. P does accept that this person 
couldnt wait for the return of his money and sought the funds after it seems 10 days had 
passed. I cant resolve here exactly what has been said and agreed between P and its client 
who isnt a party to the complaint. And Barclays now accepts that this was a buyer seller 
dispute. 
I appreciate Ps position and that it thinks that the actions were unjustified given what it says 
was a nominal amount and its history and the eventual outcome. I dont doubt that the 
directors felt personally aggrieved at the suggestion of fraudulent conduct. But that allegation 
didnt come from Barclays but from a third party. I am unable to say that Barclays acted 
unreasonably in restricting the accounts and any connected ones when it followed its normal 
process. It had received a report of a scam. It had to comply with relevant legislation and 
regulations and protect this money and guard against fraud. It wanted to investigate what 
had happened before it made a decision and was limited in what it could say to P. There was 
an element of discretion in how it approached this and that applies to what evidence might 
have been needed to make essential payments from a specific branch. And, for example 
after P had contacted Barclays several time the accounts were allowed to operate from 4 
January 2019  but this disputed money had been taken out. This was resolved and the 
money then returned. As I say I am not looking at what arrangement P then came to with the 
client.
P has accepted that it hasnt suffered any quantifiable financial loss. I am not going to be 
making any award for the inconvenience of the account being restricted because I dont find 
that this action was unreasonable as it was a matter for the discretion of Barclays given the 
information it had received. The sole issue here is about the delay in the review of this 
specific payment. Barclays says that this took an extra six working days and has offered 
£200 for this.
I know P will be very disappointed when I say that I consider this is reasonable. If P doesnt 
accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time 
limits.My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay P £200 which I think is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay P £200. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman