DRN-4220576
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc failed to switch his account as requested and said TSB 
cut off his calls. Mr A wants a minimum £100 compensation for TSBs service failings. 
 
What happened
Mr A requested TSB switch his current account to another provider in January 2021 and 
again in April 2021. He initially complained that this hadnt taken place in February 2021. Mr 
A said hes been frustrated by multiple service failures since then, including that TSB didnt 
register his complaint and its branch member had threatened to close his account if he 
brought a complaint in January 2021 and most recently in September 2022.  
Mr A said TSBs actions meant he had to wait until he had another bank account as at the 
time he only held a current account with TSB. He said TSB had refused to review his 
complaint since it was registered in October 2022. 
TSB responded to Mr As complaint in November 2022 by apologising for call wait times but 
said calls had been ended by Mr A not its staff. Regarding the branch staff member that Mr 
A was unhappy with, TSB provided a statement in which the staff member said that she had 
never threatened to close his account. TSB said it had already addressed Mr As concerns 
about his address not being changed under a previous complaint. 
Mr A wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said TSB provided system evidence of the 
failed switch in January 2021, which showed Mr As request was rejected by another bank, 
as old account already in an account switch. And so TSB wasnt responsible for the failed 
switch. With regard to the service Mr A received at TSBs branch, she said the accounts of 
the meeting differed, and it wasnt possible for her to determine exactly what happened. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the investigators response and requested an ombudsman review 
his complaint. He said she had failed to investigate his complaint and he had clear evidence 
that she had not been impartial as she had sided with TSB. He appreciated she couldnt say 
how TSBs staff member intended to come across at his branch visit. But the evidence 
showed that no service complaint had been logged about the failed switch requests by the 
staff member or TSBs Customer Services upon his specific and clear request. Mr A said if 
TSB had logged a complaint then he would have received a final response letter, but TSB 
didnt want to accept its service failures on valid customer complaints. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear to me why Mr A thinks the investigator hasnt investigated his complaint 
properly. She has found that his initial interaction with TSB around his request to switch his 
account to another bank, was frustrated by the other bank. From what Ive seen TSB tried to 
facilitate the switch and wasnt to blame that this didnt go through for the reason given 
above. 
TSB further explained that Mr A had tried to switch the same account to two different 
banking organisations at the same time hence why the switch did not go ahead. It has 
explained that the second attempted switch in April 2021 was also rejected by Mr As chosen 
new bank as, Please refer customer to old bank.   
Mr A said a letter from another bank in April 2021 contradicts TSB as it shows the switch 
was rejected by TSB. But the letter from the other bank to Mr A states, We have received a 
request from your new bank to switch your account from us. And includes Mr As account 
details with that other bank, and so does not involve his attempt to move his account from 
TSB. 
I was sorry to learn that Mr A felt threatened about his account by TSBs staff member. 
Clearly his branch meeting was contentious. Mr A has acknowledged that its not possible for 
us to say what took place during his meeting with the TSB branch member. His account and 
the branch members are at odds and the staff member denies threatening to close his 
account. I agree with Mr As comment that we couldnt fairly say how the TSB branch 
manager had intended to come across to him during his branch visit. And so it follows that it 
wouldnt be fair for me to make a finding on this issue.
Mr A says that he made a clear and specific request to TSB Customer Services to register a 
service complaint for both failed switch requests for his bank account. Im sorry that his wish 
to register a complaint didnt happen at that time or in branch, but since it has happened 
subsequently the issues have still been able to be reviewed. I havent seen any evidence of 
his complaint being made about the current issues before October 2022, and his account 
was switched the following month. 
With regard to call times and disconnection, TSBs records dont show that it cut Mr A off 
during any of his calls though calls did end when its advisor was speaking. However, I can 
see that Mr A had some long wait times for calls to be answered, for which TSB apologised. 
TSBs staff dealt with Mr As concerns during his calls as we would have expected in the 
circumstances. 
Im sure Mr A realises that we dont act on behalf of anybody concerning a complaint and 
that when we decide on the outcome of a complaint, we must by the nature of reaching an 
outcome decide in favour of one party over another. This means that one party to the 
complaint will be disappointed by the outcome. This doesnt mean we have acted partially; it 
means that we have decided what we think to be the fair and reasonable outcome based on 
all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr A has said he has clear evidence in support of his complaint, but I havent seen what this 
is. Im pleased to see that Mr A has belatedly been able to switch his bank account, as he 
has brought many complaints about TSB, but as he hasnt been able to show that TSB has 
acted in error or been responsible for the previously failed switch attempts, I cant uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman