DRN-2906991
The complaint
Mr G complains about Hasting Insurance Services Limiteds (Hasting) handling of a claim 
made under his motor insurance policy. Mr G is represented by Mr S. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr Gs parked car was damaged by a third party. He contacted his insurers 
who said the car was deemed to be write-off. 
Hastings offered Mr G £11,000, which he said was between £1,750 and £2,000 below the 
amount needed to find a comparable replacement car. Mr G was also unhappy to find an 
excess of £645 had been deducted from the settlement figure paid by Hastings. Mr G said 
he understood an excess wouldnt be applied as part of the uninsured driver section of his 
policy. Mr S complained to Hastings on behalf of Mr G.
Hastings considered the complaint. In the final response letter sent to Mr S in September 
2020, it said the excess had been charged because the third parties vehicle had insurance 
in place at the time of the incident. So, it wouldnt refund this. In respect of the valuation, it 
said this figure had been calculated using trade guides, and an average figure of £10,850 
was offered. This was later increased to £11,000 but it wouldnt increase it to £13,000 as Mr 
G requested. 
Mr S referred Mr Gs complaint to this service. He said to put things right Mr G wanted 
Hastings to pay what he considered to be the shortfall in the valuation figure and refund the 
excess payment. Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and said while she was 
satisfied the valuation had been calculated fairly but thought the excess should be refunded. 
Hastings later agreed to refund the excess payment. But as Mr S didnt agree with the 
investigators conclusion about the valuation, this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the complaint point about the excess has been resolved to both sides satisfaction, I wont 
be making a finding on this part of the complaint. It follows, the remaining issue here for me 
to decide is if the valuation placed on the car by Hastings was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S says Mr Gs car was quite a rare find in terms of specification and colour. And its for 
this reason they didnt agree with the valuation figure of £11,000.
Ive considered what Hastings is required to pay, as set out by the terms and conditions of 
the policy. These say Hastings will pay the market value, which is defined by the policy 
terms and conditions as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and 
the circumstances in which you bought it
This service doesnt decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has acted
reasonably when reaching its valuation. Mr Gs policy says the most it will pay in the event of
a claim is the market value of the car at the time of loss. In line with our approach, motor
trade guides have provided a valuation for Mr Gs car. The market values produced were 
between £10,690 and £11,400, with Mr G being offered towards the higher amount. 
I appreciate Mr S saying why he thinks the valuation should be higher, based on what he 
says was the rare specification of the car. Im not disregarding this. However, Im satisfied 
Hastings has followed our approach by making a payment based on the market valuations it 
obtained (and at the higher end of these valuations) and given clear reasons for the amount 
it paid Mr G. Its important Mr G is given a fair settlement. It follows Im satisfied Hastings 
has followed a fair process in reaching its valuation, sharing the valuations it relied on and 
paying an average of the three. I havent seen enough to say it was unreasonable for it to do 
so for this claim. It follows I do not require it to pay anything further in terms of the valuation.
Ive considered Mr S comments that Mr G has found the process of identifying a 
replacement car stressful. Im sorry to hear this. But I think it is more likely the source of this 
stress came from having to find a replacement car in the first instance  so from the fact Mr 
Gs parked car was hit by a third party. I dont think Hastings can be responsible for this, 
although I recognise Mr G believes Hastings should have paid him more. And as Ive already 
concluded Hastings acted appropriately in how the valuation was calculated, it follows Im 
not going to recommend it should make a payment in recognition of the stress Mr G says he 
experienced when finding a replacement car.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman