DRN-3600589
The complaint
Mr F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr F has a loan account with HSBC. In June 2020, he told HSBC he was experiencing 
financial difficulty due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
HSBC agreed to a three month payment deferral however due to a system error, it was only 
applied for June and July not August 2020. This led to arrears communication being sent to 
Mr F and a missed payment marker added to his credit file for August 2020.
Mr F complained. HSBC accepted an error had been made and apologised. They confirmed 
they had made arrangements for the credit file to be updated to remove the missed payment 
marker. They also agreed to pay £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr F referred the complaint to our service as he didnt believe 
the compensation was enough. He said as a result of the adverse information on his credit 
file he had incurred financial losses related to his mortgage and his credit card limit was 
lowered by another bank. 
While the complaint was at our service, HSBC agreed to pay a further £75 compensation to 
increase the total to £150. They said this was due to the time taken (over four months) for 
the account to be updated correctly to reflect the three month payment deferral.
Our investigator concluded HSBCs offer to increase the compensation was fair and 
reasonable. He said there was insufficient evidence to show HSBCs error had caused the 
financial losses as reported by Mr F.
Mr F disagreed and maintained his position. He said due to the incorrect information his 
credit file, he was unable to obtain a mortgage at a favourable rate which meant he had to 
pay around £80 more each month. He also explained the situation impacted his mental 
health and caused panic attacks because HSBCs collections team regularly contacted him 
by phone and letter about the arrears. He also wanted HSBC to confirm the interest on his 
credit card would remain at 0%. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe HSBCs revised resolution is enough to put things right, Ill explain 
why. 
At this point, I wish to say Im sorry to hear about the financial difficulties Mr F experienced 
as a result of the pandemic, I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for him and it 
undoubtedly caused worry. 
Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance to 
financial firms which outlined the immediate and temporary support to be provided to those 
negatively impacted by the pandemic. HSBC agreed to a three month payment deferral 
starting from June 2020.
Based on the FCAs guidance, any missed payments subject to the payment deferral 
shouldnt be recorded on an individuals credit file. However in this case, a missed payment 
marker was applied for August 2020. HSBC has already accepted this was an error, that 
isnt in dispute. 
In light of the same, what remains for me to consider is whether HSBC has done enough to 
put things right and I find they have. I say this because although I accept there were delays 
in amending Mr Fs credit file, it appears this has been done. There is no suggestion the 
missing payment marker for August 2020 is still reporting. 
Ive thought about Mr Fs comments about what he considers to be the financial losses as a 
result of the situation. However similar to the investigator, Im not persuaded I have sufficient 
evidence for me to reasonably say thats what happened here and Mr F should be 
compensated.
In order to award compensation for financial losses, I must be satisfied such losses were a 
direct result of the business failing. Here, that would mean I would need to be satisfied had it 
not been for HSBC reporting a missed payment in August 2020 on Mr Fs credit file, he 
wouldve obtained a mortgage deal on more favourable terms and his credit card limit 
wouldnt have been reduced. 
While I accept Mr Fs credit score is likely to have been impacted, I cant say with any 
certainty that was the only reason for what happened. For example, I havent seen any 
evidence to show he couldve been offered a mortgage at a better rate had it not been for 
this situation. The decision to lend, is a commercial one made by a financial business and 
while an individuals credit score will be a consideration, there are many other factors that 
are taken into account. On this basis, I dont find it would be fair to say HSBC should 
compensate him for this.  
That said, I cant ignore whats happened and the impact its had on Mr F. Hes explained the 
situation has impacted his mental health and caused worry because he was contacted on 
numerous occasions by HSBCs collection team about bringing the account up to date. I can 
understand why this caused Mr F upset. I also note he first reported this issue in August 
2020 but arrangements to amend the credit file werent made until January 2021, which is 
over four months later. Given these circumstances, I consider HSBCs offer to pay a further 
£75 compensation to bring the total to £150 is fair. I wont be asking them to pay any more.
Lastly, Im aware Mr F wants confirmation from HSBC that his credit card would remain at 
0% interest. However that isnt subject to this complaint and the decision to lend and on what 
terms is a commercial one made by HSBC. Generally speaking, thats not something our 
service would interfere with unless there was cause for concern. 
Taking everything into account, its clear there was a failing by HSBC. However I consider 
their actions to amend the credit file and to pay a total of £150 compensation is a fair 
remedy. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay a further £75 compensation to Mr F for 
the trouble and upset caused (£150 compensation in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman