DRN-3990215
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). 
What happened
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly misleading 
Mr E into believing that the panels would be self-funding because the benefit received 
through income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments.
Shawbrook rejected Mr Es section 75 claim, so he complained about this to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr E, and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator said that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to make the 
panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the loan term. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. 
Shawbrook responded with some comments from the suppliers legal representatives, which 
did not accept our investigators assessment and made a number of points including:
The presentation shown to Mr E during the sale was standard for all sales and 
included a spreadsheet showing the annual benefits of the system over 25 years. 
Only certain parts of the spreadsheet were editable by the salesperson (an example 
of the spreadsheet was provided to us). 
Mr E wouldnt have been told the system was self-funding in the way alleged.
From this it appears that Shawbrook did not accept our investigators recommendation. 
Mr E confirmed to our investigator that during the sales presentation he was not shown a 
spreadsheet like the example provided to us. But he was assured the loan repayments 
would be fully covered be the benefits of the system. 
Because our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have the power to look at this complaint about Shawbrooks response to a claim under 
section 75. Based on the evidence available, I have decided that Shawbrooks response to 
the claim was not fair and reasonable. So, I uphold this complaint. 
Mr Es allegation is that he was told the system would pay for itself because the benefits 
through income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. And that he 
purchased the system based on this. 
Mr E says he was not left with sales documents showing the benefits of the system and 
based his decision on what he was told by the salesperson. The supplier in this case has 
confirmed that the benefits of the system ought to have been shown to Mr E on the 
salespersons laptop during the sales presentation. And that this wouldve made clear the 
system was not self-funding in the way Mr E claims to have been told. 
However, I do not find the suppliers explanation to be sufficient for me to be satisfied that Mr 
Es recollection is not plausible or persuasive. The salesperson wouldve been in control of 
the presentation. And even if the spreadsheet was shown to Mr E (which he says it wasnt), 
there appears to be no record of what was shown on that spreadsheet. So, I dont know that 
it showed the correct information or that it clearly contradicted what Mr E recalls being told. 
The information on the spreadsheet wouldve depended on the salesperson inputting the 
correct information about the system being sold to Mr E. So, without seeing the actual 
spreadsheet and something confirming he saw it (for example if it had been included in the 
sales contract which Mr E signed or provided to him in a document which he could keep), it 
is difficult for me to dismiss Mr Es recollection of what he was told. 
I have noted that the sales contract does show a figure described as follows  First Year 
FIT £147.21 Guaranteed. Ive included below how this was presented on the contract:
I know that FIT stands for Feed-In Tariff and the amount was presumably what Mr E could 
expect to receive in Feed-In Tariff payments in the first year after installation. But I have the 
benefit of having decided many complaints relating to solar panels, so these things are now 
obvious to me. 
I think it is doubtful that Mr E wouldve understood this from looking through the contract 
before signing it. There is no clear context provided here, so without knowledge of solar 
panel systems and what these figures mean (which Mr E didnt have), I think it is unlikely 
that Mr E wouldve seen this and realised it contradicted what he says he was told during the 
sales presentation. 
Overall, having considered all the evidence provided in this case, I am of the opinion that it is 
most likely that Mr E was told the system would be self-funding in the way he has alleged. 
It seems that the system is not self-funding in that way and was never likely to be based on 
its ability to generate electricity and the benefits it could provide at the time of sale. So, I 
think the supplier most likely misrepresented the system to Mr E and that induced him to 
enter into the contract. 
Because of this, I think that Shawbrooks rejection of Mr Es claim was not fair and 
reasonable. So, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Es complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr E from the solar panels over the loan term, so he pays 
no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system and any future benefits once the 
loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr E is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr E by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss then, where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Es loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr E in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr E have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr E accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr E has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest 
per year for the time he was without that money.
If Mr E has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr E paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr E paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr E the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr E first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. So, I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint. I direct Shawbrook Bank Limited 
to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman