DRN-3493695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs D booked a UK-based holiday. They were due to travel on 9
October 2020. Alongside the holiday booking, they took out a single trip travel insurance
policy to cover their trip. This was arranged by a broker and underwritten by Great Lakes.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And
on 23 March 2020, the UK government announced restrictions on travel and movement
which were commonly referred to as lockdown. Some restrictions remained in place in the
UK at the point Mr and Mrs D were due to travel but travelling to their destination wasnt
prohibited.
Subsequently, on 28 September 2020, the UK government passed the Health Protection
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (Self-Isolation) (England) Regulations 2020 (the Regulations). In
brief, the Regulations stated that anyone in England who had been in close contact with a
person whod contracted Covid-19 would need to self-isolate for 14 days from the date of
their last contact with that person. The Regulations could be legally enforced.
On 6 October 2020, Mr D was told that hed been identified as a close contact of a person
infected with Covid-19 a couple of days before. As he was therefore required to self-isolate
until 18 October 2020, the holiday had to be cancelled. So Mr and Mrs D made a claim on
their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims which
arose because of the regulations of any government.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. He thought their
self-isolation period was akin to quarantine, which was a covered event under the
cancellation section of the policy. So he felt the claim fell within the scope of policy cover. He
thought the government regulations exclusion was ambiguous and he thought, given the
circumstances of Covid-19, that it shouldve been highlighted to Mr and Mrs D at the point of
sale. He didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to apply the exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ds
claim. He recommended that Great Lakes should pay the claim, together with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Great
Lakes treated them fairly.
First, its important I make it clear that Great Lakes didnt sell Mr and Mrs Ds policy to them
 it was sold in connection with their accommodation booking by a broker. And on the claim
form Mr and Mrs D sent Great Lakes; theyve stated that their insurance was issued on 22
January 2020. This was over six weeks before Covid-19 was declared to be a pandemic and
nearly two months before the UK government and the Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office imposed any restrictions on travel. At that point then, Im not persuaded
that insuring themselves against Covid-19 wouldve been a particular priority. And in any
event, neither Covid-19 itself nor epidemics or pandemics were specifically excluded from
cover.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy as these form the basis of
their contract with Great Lakes. Within the contract, Great Lakes has set out the terms,
conditions and exclusions upon which it provides insurance cover. As Mr and Mrs D didnt
travel, I think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to consider the claim under the Cancellation
section of the policy. This sets out the listed, specified events which Great Lakes provides
cover for. One of these events is a policyholders quarantine.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs D feel strongly that their period of self-isolation was a form of
quarantine. It was this self-isolation which necessitated the cancellation of their trip and I
understand why they feel that therefore, their claim should be covered by the policy terms. In
some cases, I may find that a policyholders directed isolation should be treated as
quarantine and that therefore, a claim should be accepted under the policy terms. But that
isnt the case here for reasons Ill go on to explore.
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out a specific list of events which Great
Lakes has chosen not to cover. One of these is any claim arising directly or indirectly from:
regulations set by the government of any country.
In my view, Great Lakes has made it clear that it wont pay claims which result from
government regulations  in other words, pieces of government-made law. The Regulations
of 28 September 2020 were passed by the UK government. They made it a legal
requirement for people whod been in close contact with those infected with Covid-19 to self
isolate for a 14-day period. The Regulations could be enforced and people in breach of the
Regulations could be fined or prosecuted.
Mr and Mrs D accept that had they travelled as planned, theyd have been breaking the law
and so they felt they had no choice but to cancel the trip. As such then, I think the main
reason why Mr and Mrs Ds trip had to be cancelled was because theyd legally been
required to self-isolate due to the Regulations. And this means I think it was fair for Great
Lakes to rely on the exclusion Ive set out above to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ds position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket.
But I currently dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Great
Lakes to pay this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any additional information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes had nothing to add.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with my provisional findings. They felt that if they hadnt followed 
the legal and medical recommendations to self-isolate after coming into contact with a 
positive case of Covid-19, they couldve been fined. And the policy wouldnt have covered them anyway because theyd have travelled against medical advice. They said the 
government regulations in the policy is secondary to medical advice when it comes to a 
pandemic. They added that the whole of the country they were due to travel to was closed 
down for travel for all but emergencies. So they said any travelling wouldve been difficult 
due to the restrictions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I still think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs D had no choice but to cancel their trip, given Mr D had 
been directed to self-isolate following his contact with a person whod tested positive for 
Covid-19. And I understand that the need to self-isolate was designed to restrict the spread 
of the virus. So I do have sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ds position.
But, as Mr and Mrs D have said and as I set out above, the requirement to self-isolate had 
been made law by the Regulations. The Regulations could be legally enforced. And had Mr 
and Mrs D not followed the Regulations, then they couldve faced fines. So I still find the 
main reason the trip had to be cancelled was because of government regulations. And as I 
explained, cancellation claims which were down to this reason are specifically excluded from 
cover.
Id add too that even if I thought the main reason Mr and Mrs D couldnt travel was because 
of travel restrictions in the part of the UK they were travelling to, Id still think it was fair for 
Great Lakes to turn down the claim. Thats because travel restrictions would still have been 
imposed as a result of a government regulation. And so I think the exclusion clause wouldve 
applied to the claim in any event.
Overall, I find it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman