DRN-3022505
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Santander UK Plc moving him to a new method of security for 
his account. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr C spoke with Santander and asked about setting up online banking  in 
case the pandemic meant he couldnt use other forms of banking. He was assured that 
setting up online banking wouldnt change his account and he could keep using his current 
telephone banking security details; though he was recommended to call up and cancel the 
online banking if he then chose not to use it. Mr C went ahead and asked for the new 
security details to be sent out.
In August 2020, Mr C was told that he could no longer use his old security details for 
telephone banking, and had to use the new security details hed been given when he signed 
up for online banking.
Santander explained that Mr C needed to have cancelled the online banking facility if he 
wanted to keep using his old security details, but it was too late to switch back now. They 
explained that in any case, they were looking to switch all customers over to the new system 
in future. They accepted they hadnt explained things well enough, apologised for the 
frustration theyd caused, and paid Mr C £50 compensation.
Mr C wasnt happy with this. He noted that a family member had declined to use the new 
system and so was still able to use their previous security details; and theyd been paid more 
compensation than him.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They agreed with Mr C that Santander 
had misadvised him, but thought theyd already resolved things fairly. They noted that Mr C 
would need to use the new system eventually, so Santanders mistake had only brought this 
forward. They explained that Santander were entitled to set their security methods, and we 
couldnt tell them what processes to have. They explained that we looked at each case on its 
own merits, and that in this case they thought the compensation paid was fair.
Mr C didnt agree. He reiterated that some customers could still use the old system. He 
wanted us to stop Santander from pushing customers onto the new security system and 
expressed his concerns about why they were doing it. He explained that if hed been given 
the correct information by Santander, then he could have avoided all this hassle. He asked 
for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain first that we cant make a bank change its process, or tell them what 
processes to have. And we cant look into Mr Cs wider concerns about Santander switching 
other customers to its newer security process. Were here to look at individual complaints  
its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short) who regulates financial 
businesses and their processes more widely. I have thought carefully about what happened 
in Mr Cs individual situation.
It does seem that Santander misadvised Mr C, which led to Mr C having to use the new 
security system and being unable to use the old one. And I do appreciate that Mr C is most 
dissatisfied with this. So I understand the basis of his complaint.
Broadly speaking, Santander are entitled to set new security processes, and to switch over 
to the new system. Security is important, and Santander have to make sure theyre keeping 
customers accounts safe. Often times, that will mean updating their systems and processes. 
Putting Santanders mis-advice aside for a moment, they would have been entitled to switch 
Mr C to the new system anyway. And I understand that they are planning for all their 
customers to use the new system in time.
So Santanders mistake only meant that Mr C was switched to the new security system 
sooner than he would have otherwise been. And ultimately, it means his account is being 
kept safe in a more up-to-date way. 
I understand that Mr Cs sibling is still using the old system. But it seems thats only because 
they were never properly switched to the new system. Whereas now that Mr C is on the new 
system, hes unable to be switched back.
I also understand Mr C got the impression that other customers will be able to use the old 
system indefinitely. But as far as I can see, Santander didnt say that. They said his sibling 
could use the old system for now. Theyve confirmed that theyre planning to switch all 
customers over to the new system in time. While I understand that Mr C prefers the old 
system, I dont think he has been treated unfairly in being put on a more up-to-date security 
system that will ultimately help keep his account safe. Like I said before, Santander were 
entitled to update the system and switch him over anyway.
Where I think Santander did treat Mr C unfairly is in misadvising him, which caused some 
confusion and frustration. I can see theyve already accepted that and apologised. And when 
it comes to compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine or punish 
businesses. Taking into account our approach to compensation, I think the £50 Santander 
have already paid Mr C is fair. I understand they paid his sibling a different amount, but we 
look at each case on its own individual merits.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything further in this 
particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman