DRN-2538994
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (ii) wrongly re-designated her 
nominee account to a Crest Personal Membership account (CPM). From November 2018 
to September 2019 she did not receive any dividends. 
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband, who Ill refer to as Mr W. He says 
hes spent considerable time and expense trying to get the dividend cheques re-issued and 
wants compensation.
What happened
The background to this complaint is familiar to both parties and was set out in some detail by 
our investigator  so I wont repeat it again here. Our investigator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. She concluded that ii had made a mistake in changing Mrs Ws 
account to a CPM account and that this had resulted in the dividends not being received. 
She thought ii should:
Assist Mr W in obtaining any outstanding dividends.
Reimburse Mrs W for the registrars costs of issuing duplicate dividends - £755.
Pay Mrs W £50 for the sundry costs incurred, such as postage.
Refund any account fees charged for the period from November 2018 to September 
2019 when the account was wrongly designated as a CPM account.
Pay Mrs W £350 for the trouble and upset caused, in addition to the £150 already paid.
Whilst this was less than Mr W had suggested, he thought this was a fair conclusion. He 
pointed out that there had also been difficulty in completing two tax returns for Mrs W 
because of the delayed receipt of dividends.
ii didnt agree. It said it would pay half of the registrars costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator for the following reasons:
ii accepts it made a mistake. It identified a system problem with Mrs Ws account, and it 
said it could either change the account to a CMP account or it could open a new 
nominee account and transfer her holdings into it. Mrs W instructed ii that she wanted 
her holdings to continue to be held in a nominee account  as they had been for around 
13 years. ii wrongly changed her account to a CMP account.
ii says that it shouldnt have designated her account as a nominee account in 2005. But, 
even if that was a mistake, the account then operated as a nominee account from 2005 
onwards and Mrs W did not give any instructions to change that arrangement.
Due to iis mistake in 2018, dividend instructions reverted to what they had been before 
2005 and dividends were sent to an old address. Mrs W was unaware of this.
Mr W had to spend considerable time contacting the registrars for the 42 dividends that 
Mrs W hadnt received. Whilst it didnt have authority to do this for Mrs W, I think it could 
have offered more help than it did.
Some of the registrars charged for issuing duplicate dividends. ii offered to pay half of 
this amount as a gesture of goodwill. But Mrs W would not have incurred any expense if 
ii hadnt made a mistake. I find it should reimburse all costs in full.
I agree with our investigator that £50 is a fair and reasonable sum to cover Mrs W for the 
additional charges she incurred, such as postage.
ii paid Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. I agree with our 
investigator that this does not fairly reflect the trouble she, and her husband on her 
behalf, had to go to to obtain the missing dividends. I agree that ii should pay an 
additional £350. I think this fairly covers the trouble and upset Mrs W will have been 
caused, including the difficulties she will have had in completing her tax returns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited should:
1. Assist Mrs W in obtaining any dividends which shes still not received.
2. Pay Mrs W £755 to reimburse her for the registrars costs.
3. Reimburse Mrs W, on receipt of evidence, for any further registrar costs she incurs in 
obtaining dividends for the period from November 2018 to September 2019.
4. Pay Mrs W £50 to cover her sundry costs.
5. Refund any account fees charged while the account was designated as a CPM account 
from November 2018 to September 2019.
6. Pay Mrs W £350 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes been caused (in 
addition to the £150 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman