DRN-2921473
The complaint
Mr P complains that Saga Services Limited mishandled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
For the year from February 2020, Mr P had a comprehensive motor policy branded with the
name of Saga. Saga acted as an intermediary between an insurance company and Mr P.
Based on his previous experience, Mr P estimated his likely mileage as 9,000 miles. The
total cost for the year was about £300.00 including Sagas arrangement fee of £25.00.
From about March 2020, Mr P did fewer miles as a result of the pandemic. From August
2020, he had medical issues that meant he couldnt drive for about a month. Mr P contacted
Saga, but it said it wouldnt reduce his premium.
In October 2020, Mr P contacted Saga again. His garage had offered him a courtesy car but
wanted to charge £10.00. Mr P asked Saga if its policy would cover the courtesy car. He
complained to Saga about its responses on the issues of his reduced mileage and cover for
the courtesy car.
By a final response dated 13 November 2020, Saga said that based on a mileage of 4,500
miles, it was offering a refund of £14.24. Saga also said that Mr P should insure the courtesy
car through the garage  otherwise Saga would charge an administration fee for adding it to
the policy. Saga offered to pay the £10.00.
Within a few days, Mr P took his car in to the garage, paid it the £10.00 and complained to
us about Saga and the insurance company.
The insurance company wrote a final response dated 30 November 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint against Saga, saying that it had delegated authority
to respond on behalf of the insurance company. The investigator didnt recommend that the
complaint should be upheld. He thought that Saga had acted fairly and reasonably as they
followed a defined process. The investigator said that Mr P had made a very good
observation that he felt the wording about the courtesy car may be ambiguous.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Saga on 30 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied that the certificate was clear enough that if Mr P drove a car other than 
his own, he would only have cover for liability to third parties and not cover for 
damage to the car he was driving.
The insurance company delegated authority to Saga to apply the insurance 
companys rules and pricing.
Saga deducted an administration fee of £25.00. This fee was in line with Sagas 
terms of business. But Saga shouldve been open about it. Yet even Sagas final 
response wasnt clear about that fee. And Sagas lack of clarity caused some of Mr 
Ps indignation at the sum of £14.25 and some extra distress and inconvenience 
when the insurance company told him what had happened.
Id thought about adding interest to the sums of £14.25 and £10.00 but I wasnt 
minded to do so because Mr P couldve accepted payment at the time of the final 
response in November 2020.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from Saga, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Saga Services Limited to pay Mr P insofar 
as it hasnt already done so:
1. £50.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. £14.25 for the refund;
3. £10.00 for the garage charge.
Mr P disagrees with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, as follows:
He didnt accept the offer because that would be accepting that their actions were 
correct, which they werent. Interest should be applied as they did not treat him fairly.
No matter what the final decision is, SAGA has lost a customer. 
SAGA was hiding behind the insurance company in the way they dealt with him.
His predicted mileage for this year is representative of last years mileage which will 
be less than 3,000 miles. He was forced to over- estimate as they would cancel the 
insurance if he did over the predicted mileage. the insurance industry should create 
retrospective rebates to simplify insurance. It is not treating customers fairly. 
Another insurance company gave its customers unsolicited refunds because of lower 
risk from lower mileages. Government accident statistics show a reduction.
The certificate of insurance says - inside the black line - that he can drive with the 
owners consent. 
SAGA do not seem to provide a policy book. The insurance company did.
He has not been treated fairly. It seems that the insurance company can wash its 
hands of the problem by declaring delegated responsibility. His complaint is with both 
companies. 
SAGA cant justify charging £25.00 to process a refund thereby taking most of the 
refund in fees.Saga disagrees with the provisional decision in part. It says, in summary, that:
It is unsure how we or Mr P have come to the figure of £39.25. The reduction in 
premium for the change to the mileage was calculated at £14.25, and there was no 
administration fee attached to this, either payable or refundable.
It also disagrees with the request to pay Mr P £50.00 for distress and inconvenience, 
as it has followed its processes correctly. 
Its offer to refund Mr P the £14.25, plus the £10.00 garage fee, remains open.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm,
but we dont identify any other party. Im dealing with Mr Ps complaint against Saga. So Im 
looking at whether Saga was responsible for doing anything wrong. Im not dealing with Mr 
Ps complaint against the insurance company. 
I have to take into account the law, contractual terms, regulation and good practice. Above
all, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). One of 
those rules is that  before a consumer may bring a complaint to us  he mustve taken the 
complaint to the firm and waited up to eight weeks for a final response.
Sagas terms of business included the following:
We will charge the following administration fees:
 £25 fee for arranging your policy (non refundable)
 £25 for any changes
So Saga said it would charge £25.00 for changes. Such changes would include a change of
vehicle or a change in expected mileage.
I consider that Mr P is making a new complaint about the provision of a policy book. As Saga 
hasnt had an opportunity to address that complaint, I cant deal with it in this decision.
From what Saga and the insurance company have each said, Saga was responsible for the
wording of Mr Ps certificate of insurance. It had a section headed Persons or classes of
person entitled to drive' as follows:
Persons or classes of person entitled to drive
Those specified below provided the person driving holds a licence to drive the vehicle
or has held and is not disqualified from holding or obtaining such a licence.
Policyholder Only
The policyholder may also drive with the consent of the owner a motor car not owned
by and not hired under a hire purchase or self-drive hire agreement to the
policyholder.
Any person driving in the event of a medical or motor emergency involving the
policyholder and/or spouse/domestic partner, with the policyholder's permission.The certificate also had a section headed Driving other cars as follows:
Driving other cars
If this cover is provided it will be shown under the 'Persons or classes of person
entitled to drive' section of this Certificate. When driving other cars cover is limited to
Third Party only. Damage to the car you are driving under this extension is not
covered by your policy. The other car must be insured in its own right and you must
not be covered on any other insurance policy to drive the car.
The sections headed respectively Persons or classes of person entitled to drive and
Driving other cars were in the same typeface and font size. I dont find it fair to characterise
the latter as small print. Im satisfied that the certificate was clear enough that if Mr P drove
a car other than his own, he would only have cover for liability to third parties and not cover
for damage to the car he was driving.
Of course, Mr P could ask Saga to make a change of vehicle covered  but that wouldve
involved an administration charge.
Im satisfied that when Mr P contacted Saga in October 2020 it gave him appropriate
information. In any event he decided to pay the garage the £10.00 and Saga later offered to
reimburse him.
So I dont find that Saga treated Mr P unfairly in relation to the courtesy car.
From what Saga and the insurance company have each said, the insurance company
delegated authority to Saga to apply the insurance companys rules and pricing. So I dont
hold Saga responsible for making decisions about pricing. In other words, I dont hold Saga 
responsible for assessing risk and setting a premium  or rebate of premium.
When Mr P contacted Saga in August 2020, he asked about reducing his estimated mileage
to 6,000 miles. Saga said that wouldnt attract any refund. As Ive said, I find that Saga was
applying the insurance companys rules and pricing. So I dont hold Saga responsible for
making the decision not to offer a refund at that time.
By October 2020, Mr P was suggesting that his mileage would be half of his expected 9,000. 
At the end of November 2020, the insurance company wrote to Mr P including the following:
  should you change your recorded mileage to 4,500 miles, we as the insurer, will 
provide a refund of £39.24 which includes Insurance Premium Tax. This premium 
has been calculated from the inception of your policy and this return premium doesnt 
include any administration fees by us as the insurer. 
According to the final response Saga sent you, they confirmed a return premium of 
£14.24 which is the above premium minus their administration fee.
So I find it likely that the insurance companys rules provided for a refund of £39.25. As Ive 
said, I find that Saga was applying the insurance companys rules and pricing. So I dont 
hold Saga responsible for making the decision that the refund would be £39.25. 
However, from what the insurance company has said, I find that Saga deducted an
administration fee of £25.00. I find that this fee was in line with Sagas terms of business.
But Saga shouldve been open about it. Yet even Sagas final response wasnt clear about
that fee. And I find that Sagas lack of clarity caused some of Mr Ps indignation at the sum
of £14.25 and some extra distress and inconvenience when the insurance company told himwhat had happened. 
 
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Saga to pay Mr P £50.00 for distress and
inconvenience  in addition to honouring its offers to pay him £14.25 for the refund and
£10.00 for the garage charge insofar as it hasnt already done so. 
Ive thought about adding interest to the sums of £14.25 and £10.00 but Ive decided not to 
do so because Mr P couldve accepted payment at the time of the final response in 
November 2020. In any event the amount of interest wouldve been small.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Saga Services Limited to pay Mr P insofar as it hasnt already done so:
1. £50.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. £14.25 for the refund;
3. £10.00 for the garage charge.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman