DRN-3250761
The complaint
K  a limited company  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed giving to consent to a 
planning agreement.
What happened
K has a commercial mortgage with Lloyds. In January 2021, K sent a section 106 agreement 
(a legal agreement between K and a local authority in respect of a planning application) to 
Lloyds. K needed Lloyds to consent to the section 106 agreement. But it did not agree 
consent until August 2021.
The investigator said that we could only look at any delays where K had already complained 
to the bank about them. But she considered that the £900 the bank had paid K was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. K did not accept the investigators findings.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I can look at
Under our rules I can only consider a complaint if the business (Lloyds) has sent a final 
response to a complaint or if eight weeks have elapsed since K complained to Lloyds.
In this case K first complained about the delays in March and Lloyds issued its final 
response on 11 May 2021. K referred the complaint to us on 2 June 2021. 
Lloyds issued a further final response on 23 June 2021. K referred that complaint to us when 
he spoke to us on 7 September 2021. So I can consider any events up to 23 June 2021 that 
Lloyds has had the opportunity to respond to.
Lloyds hasnt consented to us considering any events past the date of the final response 
dated 23 June 2021. K can complain  if it has not done so already  about events after that 
date.
Delays
I accept that there were unacceptable delays by Lloyds. It is clear that it did not handle this 
matter well and it caused significant delays. I agree with the timeline set out by the 
investigator.
Where a business has made a mistake, we tell it to put the affected party back in the position 
they would have been in had that mistake not occurred. Weve asked K if it suffered any 
financial loss because of the delays. But it has no evidence that it did.
That leaves compensation for any inconvenience caused to K. Id note that the eligible 
complainant here is K  not its directors. I can only look at the impact on K. As a limited 
company it cant suffer distress or upset. So the offer of £900, which I understand has 
already been paid, is probably more than I would have awarded in the circumstances.
I cant see any reason why Lloyds should waive its costs  those would always have been 
payable by K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont consider Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman