DRN-1987995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how National House-Building Council (NHBC) propose to 
repair their drive and the private road leading to their property under the Buildmark policy.
What happened
The policy commenced on 24 November 2017. In April 2018 Mr and Mrs W reported issues 
to the builder of their property that there were problems with the tarmac surface on their 
drive and shared road leading to their property and next doors property. They remained 
unhappy so they reported the issues to NHBC in June 2018.
NHBC investigated under its resolution service, and a resolution report was issued on 28 
September 2018. This required the builder to undertake further investigations, testing the 
tarmac to confirm that it is the correct specification/thickness for the location so that NHBC 
could further consider if it complied with its technical standards.
Testing was undertaken and an updated resolution report was issued on 24 May 2019. This 
confirmed that the builder is required to undertake remedial works to the drive and shared 
road.
Unfortunately, the builder hasnt agreed to do the corrective works and as such NHBC has 
stepped in to fulfil the builders obligations. These were in NHBCs opinion just to perform 
localised repairs.
Mr and Mrs W dont think this is fair and believe NHBC ought to replace the drive and shared 
road completely owing to the findings of the resolution report and lab results of the core 
samples taken.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt based on the policy that NHBC were 
entitled to repair just the physical damaged areas  areas that have become sunken or 
suffered breakup of the surface. He acknowledged whilst the construction of the road hadnt 
met the technical requirements set out by NHBC, this would only be a breach where 
satisfactory performance wasnt being obtained.
Mr and Mrs W disagree they dont feel that satisfactory performance is being obtained on the 
drive or shared road given the deterioration across the surfaces that have appeared over the 
last two years. They feel it should be rectified fully and not just patched up. So, they have 
requested that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws claim comes under section two of the Buildmark policy, this covers years 
zero to two from the date of completion of the property. 
The NHBC guarantee says: 
You are protected by the NHBC guarantee for what we (in a resolution report) or a court (in 
a judgment or, in Scotland, a decree) decides the builder should have done to meet their 
responsibilities under the builder warranty.
If the builder does not meet these responsibilities, we will do so on their behalf. Or, if we
choose to, we will pay you what it would cost us to have the work done.
In this case we know the builder hasnt met their responsibilities and NHBC are stepping in 
on their behalf. 
The builders requirements under the policy says:  
If you tell the builder during the warranty period that they have failed to meet the NHBC 
requirements, they must put this right within a reasonable time. This includes:
repairing physical damage to your home resulting from their failure; 
So, the key term here is NHBC are responsible for repairing physical damage, so ordinarily 
thats all wed expect them to do  unless they needed to go further in order to carry out a 
lasting and effective repair. 
I note the policy doesnt define physical damage and like our investigator I agree the 
common understanding of physical damage is tangible damage i.e. damage that can be 
perceived by touch or feel.
 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by this as I suspect their 
expectations were not managed very well by NHBC. I say this as the updated resolution 
report issued in May 2019, is not clear in the scope of work that is required. However, like 
most insurance policies we would not expect an insurer to cover undamaged property.
It is not disputed that there are areas on the drive and shared road that are suffering from 
physical damage, I have also looked at the reports and photographs provided by the parties 
and I can see there are areas that have become sunken and/or the surface has broken up. 
However, from what Ive seen this damage is only apparent in certain areas and on the 
whole, the surface is currently performing. So, whilst certain areas have suffered physical 
damage this cant be said to be affecting the whole drive and road surface.
So, based on the terms of the policy Im satisfied that NHBC has been fair when saying it will 
carry out a localised repair of the damaged areas of the drive and road. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W feel that because the samples taken have shown that the 
technical requirements were breached that the whole drive and road should therefore be 
replaced. 
NHBC do publish standards on the technical requirements, performance standards and 
guidance for the design and construction of homes which is deemed acceptable by NHBC. 
These requirements are not necessarily the same as building regulations.
A breach of the technical requirements occurs when a builder hasnt considered a technical 
requirement when constructing a property and this element doesnt therefore provide 
satisfactory performance as a result.In Mr and Mrs Ws case, the core samples taken for testing didnt meet the requirements set 
by NHBC under Chapter 10s requirements for sub base thickness for private drives. 
The specification required is a 100mm base and 20mm wearing course, whereas the test 
samples that were taken showed a 200mm base and 120mm wearing course has been 
used. 
So, although these samples show the technical requirements hadnt been met, its important 
to note that NHBC requirements are performance based. This means if the element under 
consideration is performing satisfactorily then it will be deemed to have met the technical 
requirements and wouldnt therefore be defective even if the construction hadnt met the 
original technical requirements.
So, even if there were more breaches (or failures according to the policy term), theyre only 
covered if they cause physical damage. 
From what Ive seen although there are certainly areas of the drive and road that are not 
performing as intended and are therefore defective that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
performing areas of the drive and road are defective. Im not persuaded that the defective 
areas affect the overall performance of the drive and road especially given they only form a 
small part of the overall surface. 
In summary Im not persuaded NHBC has done anything wrong I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint and NHBC now need to conduct the repairs to the areas of the drive and road that 
have physical damage or offer a cash alternative as required under the Buildmark policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman