DRN-2982990
The complaint
In 2020 Mr F sought to liquidate all units in the Pru Fund held within his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). 
In the course of his pursuit he says he learnt, afresh, that Prudential applied a 28 days 
execution period to such transactions and that the execution price would be determined at 
the end of this period; that he was previously unaware of this and was given no indication of 
it when the fund was recommended to him (in 2018); that he would have invested differently 
at the outset if this was disclosed to him; that Prudential initially misrepresented this 
information to him and then it applied the notice period inconsistently to his liquidation 
instructions in March and September.
He seeks compensation for financial loss (loss of value) and for the trouble and distress 
caused to him.
What happened
On 2 March Mr F instructed Prudential to liquidate his holding in the fund. Prudential told him 
about the 28 days period and that the execution price is determined, and locked-in, at the 
time the request to sell units is submitted. He says he relied upon this and considered the 28 
days period to be akin to a settlement period. On 3 March Prudential sent him confirmation 
that his instruction had been processed. In a subsequent email, on the same date, it 
confirmed that the execution price will be determined at the end of the 28 days period.
Mr F responded to Prudential on the same date. He queried why the email referred to 
determination of the execution price at the end of the 28 days period and why that conflicted 
with what he was told prior to his instruction  that the execution price is set at the point the 
instruction is submitted. He says he also considered it wrong that he could be expected to 
sell units in the fund without knowing the price at which they are sold until 28 days thereafter. 
He called Prudential on 6 March in order to clarify the matter. Prudential concedes that it 
misinformed him during this call by telling him the time scale for the liquidation was four 
days, instead of 28 days. It says it identified this error promptly, called Mr F to notify him of it 
and, in recognition of its error, it offered to cancel the transaction  which was not ordinarily 
permissible and which Mr F agreed to. Mr Fs description of this differs. He says cancellation 
was initiated by his enquiry, not Prudentials offer, and that he was led to believe such 
cancellation could not be guaranteed. The transaction was eventually cancelled.
Mr F says the funds value fell by 11.5% around the time of the cancellation. By September 
he retained a dim view on its prospects and/or the prospects of maintaining his investment in 
the fund. He decided to liquidate all his units in the fund and instructed Prudential to execute 
this, despite remaining unhappy about the price determination at the end of the 28 days 
period. His instruction on 1 September was processed and completed the following day (2 
September), and he has referred to evidence that the actual liquidation was executed on the 
instruction day (1 September). 
Mr F says the prompt execution and completion timescale in September is what he expected 
with his initial instruction in March and is what should have happened for that instruction; and 
that had his March instruction been treated in such a way he would have proceeded with it 
(instead of cancelling it) and he would have avoided the loss of unit value that ensued 
between both instructions. He acknowledges Prudentials concession of the inaccurate 
information he was given on 6 March  and its payment of £50 for the trouble that caused  
but he says more should be paid for the trouble and upset caused in the case as a whole 
and that compensation for the loss of value he incurred remains outstanding.
Prudential says the events in March and September are to be addressed separately  it 
concluded the former prior to referral of the complaint to this service and it has provided us 
with a copy of its 4 November 2021 final complaint response for the latter. In the main, its 
position is as follows:
Mr F was not misinformed on 2 March, he was correctly informed about application of 
the 28 days execution period. He had never been told anything different previously. 
He would have been aware of this process when his Prudential Retirement Account 
(RA) was being set up and from the Key Features document and Terms and 
Conditions booklet he would have been issued at the time of sale of the fund.
The misinformation given to him on 6 March has been accepted, it was rectified 
immediately and compensation has been given to him in this respect. The 
misinformation did not cause him a financial loss.
With regards to Mr Fs claim of inconsistency  between how his instructions were 
treated  they were handled differently because they were not the same type of 
instruction. In March (and in April) Mr F instructed a sell down of his units. The 28 
days period correctly applied to that, and was applied to that. His instruction in 
September was for a transfer out, a different service level agreement of 10 working 
days applied to that, so the 28 days period was inapplicable.
However, it accepts that the transfer out instruction should have been executed 
quicker than it was; the instruction was received on 3 September; it should have 
notified Mr F of any outstanding requirements within five working days but it did not 
contact him until 16 September; the necessary paperwork was received on 6 October 
and it should have issued the funds within 10 working days, but it did not do that until 
23 October; overall, had it acted in a timely manner, the transfer out should have 
been completed by 7 October and it is sorry this did not happen. Furthermore, it has 
sent payment of £125 to Mr F for the trouble and upset this caused him, and it has 
undertaken to engage with the transferee firm in order to calculate whether (or not) a 
loss of growth in the transferred account has been incurred as a result of the delayed 
transfer out process  it will update Mr F as this progresses.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He noted that the complaint is only against Prudential, and not against the third-party 
financial adviser who recommended the Pru Fund to Mr F, so he could not hold Prudential 
responsible for any alleged unsuitability of that recommendation. He also noted that the 
terms and conditions, and key features document, for the SIPP and in relation to the Pru 
Funds expressly provided for the 28 days waiting period and for the application of the unit 
price at the end of that period; and that the same applied to switches out of the smoothed 
type of fund that Mr F held.
The investigators key conclusions were that Prudential was entitled to apply the 28 days 
period and that Mr F was informed about that; but Prudential applied it inconsistently in the 
unit sales that were instructed between March, April and September; Prudential also misled Mr F, on 2 March, to believe the execution price was locked in at the time his instruction was 
submitted, when in fact the execution price was to be determined at the end of the 28 days 
period; overall, Prudential should pay Mr F an additional £100 for the trouble and upset he 
has been caused by these wrongdoings; but an award for financial loss cannot be made 
because Prudential did nothing wrong by applying the 28 days period.
Neither party accepted the investigators view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs submissions extend to a complaint about the recommendation of the Pru Fund. As 
the investigator said, the present complaint is only about Prudential, as the SIPP provider. 
The matter of suitability (or otherwise) of the fund recommendation is one that concerns the 
third-party Independent Financial Adviser who Mr F says recommended the fund to him. If, 
as he says, he is unhappy that the recommendation made no mention of the 28 days period 
and/or if he considers the recommendation unsuitable for that reason or for any other 
reason, such matters are remote to Prudential. 
Also as the investigator said, there is evidence of provisions for the 28 days period and 
application of the unit price at the end of that period (as the execution price) in the terms and 
documentation associated with the RA and the fund. On balance, they would have been 
issued to and agreed by Mr F in the course of the opening of his RA and investing in the 
fund. If he was unaware of this in March 2020, I do not consider that Prudential was to blame 
for that as it had previously given him information about it. If, as he claims, his units incurred 
a loss of value after March 2020 that he could have avoided, but for the 28 days period 
discouraging him from proceeding with the liquidation that month, I agree with the 
investigators finding that Prudential cannot fairly be blamed for this because it was entitled 
to apply the 28 days execution/waiting period.
The specific matter of the transfer out delay does not appear to have featured in Mr Fs 
complaint prior to Prudentials letter of 4 November 2021. It has clearly addressed the matter 
and it accepts that it caused a delay to the transfer of Mr Fs account. There does not appear 
to be dispute over the £125 it paid him for the trouble and upset caused and it has 
committed itself and given what appears to be an undertaking, in writing, to engage with the 
transferee firm in order to determine whether (or not) the delay caused Mr F a financial loss 
in terms of any post-transfer reinvestment of his pension. The implication arising from the 
undertaking is that Prudential is prepared to compensate Mr F if a financial loss is identified 
and determined in this respect. Overall, and in this context, I do not consider it necessary to 
make any further finding or determination on this matter.
The issues that remain are Mr Fs complaints about being misled during the calls in March 
and about Prudentials inconsistency in applying the 28 days period.
Available evidence is that whilst Mr F was told about the 28 days period prior to submitting 
his instruction on 2 March, he was also led to believe that the execution price would be set 
(and locked in) at the point his instruction was submitted, regardless of the 28 days period 
that was to follow. That was incorrect information. Even though relevant terms and 
documentation stated otherwise, Prudential remained responsible for giving accurate 
information to him and, in the circumstances, I can understand why he relied upon what he 
was told. Prudential would argue that its email the following day (3 March) rectified the 
matter, but the facts show that a more happened after 3 March  including further misinformation on 6 March  before Mr F was put into an accurately informed position on 
how his instruction would be treated. In the process, the misinformation given to him on 2 
and 6 March had to be corrected.
Available evidence also suggests doubt over Prudentials argument that the instruction in 
September differed from those earlier, hence the difference in treatment. Mr F initially 
instructed a sell down on 1 September, which was executed and completed by 2 September. 
He then instructed the transfer out on 3 September, as Prudential accepts. In other words, it 
appears that the sell down instruction was treated in isolation, as of 1 and 2 September, and 
that Prudential did not know it was leading to a transfer out request until 3 September. 
Prudentials email to this service, dated 15 June 2021, seems to support this conclusion. The 
email includes the following  
 the switch requested on 1 September 2020 that settled on 2 September 2020 was 
processed incorrectly.
We should have adhered to the Retirement Account Terms and Conditions and a 28 day 
waiting period should have been applied. This switch was processed incorrectly by the 
processor as a result of human error.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Prudential misinformed Mr F on 2 and 6 March 2020, 
and that it also appears to have applied the 28 days period inconsistently to his instructions. 
It has already paid him £50 for the trouble caused by the misinformation on 6 March, which I 
consider to be fair compensation for that element. 
For the trouble and upset caused by the misinformation on 2 March and for the uncertainty 
he would have reasonably perceived from the inconsistent application of the 28 days period, 
I agree with the investigators finding that an addition £100 should be paid to him. Both 
issues would have caused him some, but not serious, trouble and upset  the execution 
pricing misinformation was corrected and, ultimately, resolved with cancellation of his March 
instruction around a fortnight after the instruction was given; and the quick execution of his 
September instruction appears to have been in his favour, it was executed between 2 days 
and was not exposed to price uncertainty over 28 days. In this context, I am satisfied that 
£100 is a fair award of compensation for trouble and upset caused by these issues  in 
addition to the £50 Mr F received for the 6 March misinformation issue.
Putting things right
Prudential must pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him as addressed above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him (as 
addressed above).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman