DRN-3076131
The complaint
Ms F says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Ms F says that she had other lending 
when Morses approved the loans. And so, it was problematic for her to make the loan 
repayments. She thinks Morses shouldnt have lent because of this.  
 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms F between 
March 2017 and August 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 17/03/2017 £300 33 08/12/2017
2 14/12/2017 £300 33 02/08/2018
3 02/08/2018 £700 52 28/09/2018
4 02/08/2018 £300 33 23/11/2018
5 15/08/2019 £1,000 33 01/05/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that from loan 3 onwards there 
were signs that Ms F was reliant on the lending. And so Morses shouldnt have approved 
loans 3 to 5. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that three loans in 17 months wasnt 
excessive. The loans looked affordable and the information Morses had about Ms F was 
reasonable and verified by a credit reference agency where possible. Ms F repaid the loans 
on time, other than being late with the repayments to loan 1 by a few weeks. 
Ms F didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms F didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms F had with 
Morses. And they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 5 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. But Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses 
lending history with Ms F, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was problematic, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
3. I say this because:
At this point Ms F had been indebted to Morses for around a year and a half. This is 
a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. 
Ms Fs first loan was for £300. But loan 3 was for £700 and Ms F also started loan 4 
at the same time, which was for a further £300. This is a significant increase in the 
amounts borrowed.
And loan 3 was a commitment for another year of repayments. So, at this point 
Morses ought to have known that Ms F was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. Morses also ought to have been concerned that Ms Fs indebtedness was 
unsustainable. And overall, I think the above factors indicate that Ms F was now in 
difficulty.
Ms F didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out over two years after Ms Fs first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms F had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
And I do accept that the information Morses had showed that the loans may have 
been affordable. But I think the lending pattern, in particular the step change in the 
borrowing at loans 3 and 4, indicates financial problems. And Morses was wrong to 
not take more notice of this. 
I think that Ms F lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the amount of borrowing and the length of time over which Ms F borrowed was likely 
to have had negative implications on Ms Fs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms F from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms F loans 3 to 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms F the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Fs borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Fs credit file. If 
Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman