DRN-3313891
The complaint
Mr G complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline his home 
insurance claim for damage to his damp proof course. 
What happened
In September 2021, when Mr G was having an extension built at his home some of his 
ground floor floorboards were lifted and it was discovered that the damp proof course (DPC) 
had been breached and rot was present in the joists. Mr G made a claim under his home 
insurance policy. He told UKI that that he purchased his house about 30 years ago and the 
DPC had been installed prior to him moving in. UKI considered Mr Gs claim but decided to 
decline it as there is no cover under the policy for damage caused by rot. It said that, in 
addition, the DPC failure wouldve been gradual and damage caused gradually was 
excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr G complained to UKI. He said there was damp and dust in his home which was affecting 
his health and causing him stress. Mr G also said the repairs were going to cost him £70,000 
and hed have to use his savings to pay for them. He said he wanted UKI to cover his claim. 
UKI looked into Mr Gs complaint and issued its final response letter in October 2021. UKI 
thought its decision to decline the claim had been correctly taken. 
Mr G responded to say the rot had been caused by the soakaway flooding. He said the joists 
had to be removed and the floor concreted. Mr G said he shouldve been placed in a hotel 
and that he was unhappy that UKI had refused to send anyone out to inspect the damage. 
UKI appointed a drainage specialist to attend and see what was going on but it reported that 
there was no issues with the drains. So it maintained its decision that the claim was to be 
declined. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to UKI, Mr G, through his representative, 
complained to this service. Mr Gs representative, Mr A, told our investigator that the drains 
overflowed and flooded the house. Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. She said that, taking the policy terms and conditions into 
account, she was unable to find that UKI had unfairly declined Mr Gs claim. She also said 
that alternative accommodation (AA) was only offered to policy holders if there was a valid 
claim made (and a need established). She said that because Mr Gs claim wasnt covered, 
UKI neednt offer him AA. 
Our investigator also noted that it seemed UKI had sent a drainage expert out in error as itd 
already decided to decline the claim. She said she could understand why this might upset 
Mr G but as thered been no detriment suffered she wasnt upholding this aspect of his 
complaint. And finally, in respect of Mr As comments about the overflowing drains, our 
investigator said that this couldnt form part of this complaint as it had yet to be referred to 
UKI which must be first given the opportunity to investigate it. 
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With very real regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr G, Im afraid Im unable 
to uphold his complaint. I appreciate that he has experienced a very distressing and 
upsetting time in his home and I know that this has proved to be a very stressful experience. 
Despite my natural sympathies for the situation in which Mr G has found himself however, 
I dont think that UKI has unfairly or unreasonably declined his claim. 
The starting point for any claim has to be the policy terms and conditions. Not all damage a 
home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage caused by one of 
the perils (events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, flood etc.  is covered. If it can be shown 
that the damage has been caused by one of these events, then the insurer must pay the 
claim. That is unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions in order to decline it. 
In Mr Gs case, there has been damage to his DPC that, in turn, has caused rot. The cause 
of that damage doesnt however appear to be any of the insured events  flood, escape of 
water, fire etc.  listed in the policy. Rather it appears that the DPC has failed gradually 
overtime  and I understand Mr G has had a number of building projects undertaken at his 
home over the years. Damage caused gradually isnt covered by the policy. Ive reviewed 
the policy terms and conditions and Im unable to see any of the perils which could be said to 
have caused the rot. And unfortunately, added to this, like most home insurance policies, rot 
as a type of damage is specifically excluded from cover. 
It is up to insurers what damage they wish to provide cover for and UKI  like most insurers 
 chooses not to cover rot. That it hasnt, is pretty typical of most policies on the market. So 
Im satisfied here that the exclusion of rot isnt in any way unusual or onerous. 
So Im satisfied that UKI has correctly applied the policy terms and conditions to Mr Gs 
claim; unfortunately the damage he reported simply isnt covered. 
Mr Gs policy does provide for the provision of AA but only where there is a valid claim for 
damage under the policy terms. As Mr Gs claim wasnt covered, UKI isnt obliged to 
consider whether to place him in AA. I appreciate that Mr Gs living conditions must have 
been difficult for a time but without a valid claim existing under the policy I cant find that UKI 
has done anything wrong by not considering moving him into AA. 
With regard to the visit by the drain specialist it seems to me that UKI sent one out because 
Mr G had mentioned the soakaway flooding and, whilst it didnt think this was causing the 
rot, it just wanted to make sure for Mr G. And indeed that is what seems to have been the 
case. I know Mr G has since expressed confusion about why a drainage expert was sent out 
but a soakaway is part of the drainage system so it is reasonable to think that this is why UKI 
instructed one to attend. As UKIs drainage expert reported there was no issue however, the 
claim remained declined. Given what Mr G had reported to UKI, I dont think it having a 
drainage expert attend was an unreasonable step to take in the circumstances. 
Ive thought too about Mr As comments to our investigator about the drain overflowing and 
flooding the house and I know, because he is a builder himself, he removed the drain when 
he built the extension and it is now fixed. But this matter has yet to be raised and considered 
by UKI. If Mr G thinks his drains have flooded his home he should first raise this with UKI. 
Only then, after it has had a chance to investigate, is it possible to refer it to this service. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman