DRN-3879341
The complaint
Ms B complains about Santander UK Plcs branch network and telephone banking customer 
service and feels she is being pushed to bank elsewhere.
What happened
Ms B has held a Santander current account for over 30 years and her preference has always 
been to visit her local branch to do her banking. When Santander closed her local branch, 
she changed to telephone banking.
Ms B uses telephone banking on a weekly basis but finds this problematic. This is because 
she regularly has to wait for an hour to speak to a representative and has to bear the cost of 
the call.
Ms B says she tried to use the automated telephone service, but this didnt recognise her 
request and led her back to the telephone queue.
Ms B complained to Santander who suggested she calls off-peak or uses on-line services. 
However, off-peak calls arent conducive to Ms B due to her work commitments. And, 
regarding on-line services, Ms B says she has limited computer ability and is very anxious 
about trying this as she has spent her entire life doing things using more traditional methods 
and cant suddenly change to accommodate Santander. Also, she is concerned that if she 
tried Santanders on-line services and experienced a problem she would struggle to get to 
speak to a representative.
Santander awarded Ms B £30 as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience she had been 
caused.
Ms B subsequently complained to our service as she doesnt want to wait on hold for an 
hour, and bear the cost, to do her weekly banking. Also, she feels she is being pushed 
towards banking elsewhere. Ms B thinks she is being treated unfairly as its not her fault that 
Santander have insufficient staff to answer calls and decided to close branches that she 
could reach.
Our investigator understood Ms Bs frustrations but didnt uphold her complaint.
As Ms B remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking Santander to take any further 
action.
Firstly, I should explain this service cant tell a business how to run its services or require 
them to alter customer contact policies or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator 
of the financial services industry and our role is to consider each individual case. And, where 
we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to 
decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a 
consumer has experienced.
So, although I understand Ms Bs disappointment and frustration at Santanders reduced 
branch network and being placed in a lengthy and expensive telephone queue, this service 
cant compel Santander to make changes to enable calls to be answered quickly and without 
a charge. 
Also, the Santander business decisions which Ms B complains about impacts all of their 
customers, so theyre not treating Ms B any differently to anyone else here. I do though 
appreciate those customers like Ms B, who feel direct debits or on-line services are not for 
them and cant call during off-peak hours, are more affected by these business decisions. 
So, I can see why Ms B feels she is being pushed into transferring to another bank.
However, as mentioned by our investigator Santander have informed Ms B that there are 
available options which can negate the need to make calls. And, these include direct debit, 
visiting a branch approximately 4 miles away or on-line systems for which support is 
available. So, although Ms B doesnt want to use these, and it is of course up to her which 
facilities she chooses, I think these are reasonable options. And, the reality is that Ms B has 
a choice and her preferred method will invariably involve waiting times. 
So, considering the above, I havent seen anything which suggests Santander have treated 
Ms B unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman