DRN-3235938
The complaint
Mr I complains that Black Horse Limited recorded a default on his credit file when he couldnt 
pay the balance due after he voluntary terminated his agreement with them.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr I was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. The agreement was for £30,826, with 48 monthly payments of £353, and a 
final payment of £13,365.  
Mr I said that he contacted Black Horse in November 2020 as his household income had 
been affected by the Covid 19 pandemic. He said he asked to voluntary terminate the 
agreement in December 2020.
He said that Black Horse advised him he needed to pay £2,361 to terminate the agreement. 
He said he explained to them that hed lost his job in September 2020 due to the pandemic. 
He said hed still managed to make the payments on the agreement in October, November, 
and December 2020. He asked them to waive the payment due to terminate the agreement. 
He said he hadnt missed any payments on the agreement, even when he had been 
furloughed, so hoped they would agree to this.
He said that Black Horse didnt respond to any of his correspondence, and recorded a 
default on his credit file on 2 March 2021. Hes unhappy that they did this when he was still 
trying to engage with them about the outstanding amount. He said that Black Horse insisted 
he made the payment in full, and wouldnt consider any other approach, such as a payment 
deferral or an affordable payment plan.
Mr I asked that Black Horse remove the default from his credit file, confirm whether or not 
they are prepared to waive or cancel the outstanding amount he owes, or agree an 
affordable payment plan. He said he would also like an apology and £500 for the 
inconvenience, stress, and other losses theyve caused him.
Black Horse said Mr I requested to voluntary terminate his agreement in December 2020. 
They said this left him owing £2,361 as he hadnt paid half of the total amount payable under 
the agreement. They said they defaulted the account because Mr I was unable to pay the 
outstanding amount.
They said that In March 2021 they offered to remove the default if Mr I could pay the 
outstanding amount by April 2021, but payment wasnt received. They said that they decided 
to write off the debt due to Mr Is personal circumstances, and wrote to him on 19 April 2021 
advising him that theyd classified the debt as a write off and recorded the default.
They said they sent Mr I letters informing him of the status of his account. They 
acknowledged that they didnt respond to all his correspondence. They said this was 
because they were receiving a high number of calls at a time when they had significantly 
reduced staffing levels. 
Mr I was unhappy with Black Horses response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator felt that the correspondence and calls from Black Horse to Mr I had 
confirmed they were able and happy to help. He also felt it was reasonable for them to 
record a default, and he thought they had explained this to Mr I. So he didnt think Black 
Horse had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Because Mr I didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr I was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
The agreement and Voluntary Termination clause
Like all agreements of this type, this agreement has a termination clause that sets out Mr Is 
right to terminate. This is a right granted under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and allows 
him to return the car if hes paid at least 50% of the total amount payable. The agreement 
confirms this amount was £15,413.
  
Black Horse set out the terms of the Voluntary Termination in letters sent to Mr I on 9 
October 2020 and 8 December 2020. These explained the full consequences of terminating 
the agreement, including the outstanding amounts that would be due, and the impact on his 
credit file.
The letter explained that Black Horse would inform the Credit Reference Agencies that half 
the total amount payable had not been reached and if there were any outstanding payments 
due. They also warned that this may make it difficult for him to obtain credit.
Im satisfied that Black Horse gave Mr I sufficient information of the consequences of 
voluntary terminating the agreement before he chose that option.
Issuing of default notices
Black Horse sent Mr I a notice of default on 18 December 2020. They then wrote to him on 
21 December 2020 to advise him that his account was in arrears. Both of these letters 
related to the excess mileage charge of £876 due after he returned the car.
They next wrote to him on 4 March 2021 advising him his account was in arrears of £2,361. 
This was made up of the amount he owed to take his payments to 50% as set out in the 
agreement (and as Ive explained above) plus the excess mileage charge payable under the 
agreement.These letters are in line with what Id expect a business to send to any consumer who was in 
arrears. Mr I considers these letters to constitute harassment. I disagree. Consumers need 
to have the relevant information about their account, including the amount owed, and what 
steps they need to take before formal action is taken by the lender.
In this case Black Horse notified Mr I he was in arrears, and they recorded the failure to 
make payment on his credit file. This is a consequence of not making the payment, and a 
warning this would happen is set out in the important information section on page one of the 
agreement.
FCA Guidance and Payment deferral
Guidance issued by the industry regulator, the Financial Authority Guidance (FCA), required 
firms to provide support to consumers whose household income had been affected by Covid 
19 by freezing or reducing payments. This was available from April 2020 for a period of three 
months. In further guidance issued in July 2020, the FCA said firms should offer a further 
three months deferral if customers were still facing temporary payment difficulties as a result 
of the Covid 19 pandemic. This was extended by guidance issued in November 2020.
The purpose of the guidance was to provide temporary relief. By seeking to voluntary 
terminate the agreement, Mr I chose the option that would provide permanent relief from the 
agreement. I cant see from the information he provided me that a payment deferral was an 
option he requested or was interested in prior to terminating the agreement.
Request to waive the outstanding amount
Mr I has repeatedly asked Black Horse to waive the outstanding amount and remove the 
default from his credit file.
I understand he was in a difficult situation following the loss of his job due to Covid 19. But I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Black Horse to pursue him for the outstanding 
amount. This is an amount thats due under the terms of the agreement, and is in line with 
the voluntary termination section of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So I think it was 
reasonable for Black Horse to seek payment.
And its also reasonable for them to note the default to the Credit Reference Agencies. A 
credit file holds information about credit accounts held by an individual. And its important, for 
lenders and also the individual, that the information it holds is accurate. It helps lenders 
decide whether or not they want to lend to the individual, without getting that individual into 
debt that they might not be able to afford.
I note that Black Horse has considered Mr Is personal situation. They gave him one month 
to pay the arrears, and if he did so, they would remove the default. When he didnt make 
payment, they decided to stop asking Mr I to pay the arrears. In effect they were writing off 
the amount. I think that was a fair decision, and in line with the FCAs expectation that 
consumers circumstances are fully considered. But I also think its reasonable that the debt 
is recorded as written off with the Credit Reference Agencies. Unless or until Mr I can make 
arrangements to clear that debt. I can see that Black Horse explained this to Mr I in their 
letter of 19 April 2021.
Im satisfied that Black Horse gave Mr I sufficient information of the amount he owed 
following voluntary termination, and that they sent him relevant information about the debt, 
and that it would be recorded with the Credit Reference Agencies.Im aware that Mr I is frustrated with the lack of response hes had from Black Horse to his 
various request to waive the agreement. But Im satisfied they made their position clear, and 
acted reasonably when writing off the amount. Its reasonable for them to record that 
information with the Credit Reference Agencies, until the debt is cleared.
Id expect Black Horse to consider his current financial situation and treat him with 
appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan if he now wants to 
clear the arrears. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman