DRN-1192966
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires ("Birmingham 
Midshires") isn't acting fairly as he's in financial difficulties with his buy to let mortgage. He 
wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr W had a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. He got into arrears due to 
personal difficulties, and said that Birmingham Midshires failed to take this into account. Mr 
W understood that it had appointed receivers to take over the property, and said that he 
found a buyer about two months later for another property. Mr W said he was going to use 
the sale proceeds to clear his debts, including the arrears for his residential mortgage. He 
said that he wanted to sell the property mortgaged with Birmingham Midshires himself, but 
couldn't afford to clear the arrears or show that he could pay the mortgage in the future as 
he wasn't working.
Mr W complained to Birmingham Midshires. It said that Mr W in early 2019 had failed to 
return forms to it to confirm that he wanted to sell the property, and he hadn't responded to 
the contacts made to discuss the situation. Birmingham Midshires noted that its solicitors 
had tried to contact Mr W, but he had said that he chosen not to open the letters. It explained 
that this led to the appointment of the receivers, who could be withdrawn if Mr W cleared the 
arrears and costs, and was able to show he could pay the mortgage in the future. 
Birmingham Midshires said that it had passed onto the receivers the information from Mr W 
about the estate agents he;d appointed and the possible offer to buy the property. It pointed 
out though that the receivers might choose to rent out the property.
Mr W complained to us. He accepted that Birmingham Midshires had been entitled to 
appoint the receivers, but he wanted the property back so he could sell it promptly and use 
the proceeds to deal with his financial affairs. Mr W had also found out that an agent of the 
receivers had apparently found a couple in the property who had claimed Mr W had 
extended their lease, which he said was false information.
While this service investigated,  the receivers withdrew in late July as this service was 
involved and they weren't able to act in the meantime. The receivers had chosen to do this, 
rather than had been instructed by Birmingham Midshires to do so. This meant that Mr W 
would be able to sell the property. Mr W said he shouldn't be charged for the receivers and 
related costs, though he accepted he hadn't communicated with Birmingham Midshires or 
read post sent to him prior to the appointment of the receivers. He also said that the delay 
had caused him financial loss and upset.
The investigator's view was that Birmingham Midshires wasn't at fault. She said that by the 
time the receivers were appointed, Mr W had failed to communicate or return the sale forms, 
and agents understood from the tenants that they were paying rent to Mr W. The investigator 
noted that Mr W had been sent notices about the appointment and also discussed with Birmingham Midshires the appointment in April 2019. Mr W later asked for repairs to be dealt 
with, and only after this conversation found a buyer.
The investigator said that it was relevant that the property was buy to let, as it was an 
investment; the terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed the lender to appoint receivers 
in the circumstances of this case and due to the amount of arrears owed. She pointed out 
that as the mortgage was a commercial loan, Mr W's personal circumstances weren't as 
relevant than if the loan had been a residential mortgage. The investigator explained that the 
receivers were acting on Mr W's behalf and stood in his shoes; this meant it was up to the 
receivers whether to return the property to Mr W, rent it out or sell it. The lender wasn't 
responsible for the decisions of the receiver and the receiver wasn't within the jurisdiction of 
this service. The investigator said Birmingham Midshires had acted fairly in appointing the 
receivers, and after that wasn't responsible for what happened.
Mr W disagreed. He felt that he should've been treated with compassion. Mr W felt strongly 
that the receivers had lied about the tenants in the property and the delays he faced in 
getting his information from the lender (under data protection legislation).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which is about Mr W not being able to sell the property himself while the receivers 
were appointed. Mr W himself accepts that Birmingham Midshires had acted reasonably in 
appointing the receivers given the position with which it was faced (and I agree for the 
reasons given by the investigator). I'm not going to deal with the data protection point as that 
wasn't in the original complaint brought to this service and a matter best left to the 
Information Commissioner's Office. I can't deal with the actions of the receivers as they're 
not within the jurisdiction of this service and weren't the lender's agents.
Lenders are required to deal with those in financial difficulties, such as those in arrears, 
fairly. While buy to let mortgages in these circumstances are commercial loans, it doesn't 
change this duty, though it does affect what matters are relevant compared to a residential 
mortgage; compassion isn't something that lenders are generally expected to consider when 
dealing with investments. But acting fairly doesn't necessarily mean doing whatever the 
borrower wants; the circumstances as a whole must be considered.
Once the receivers were appointed, they alone were responsible for the property. Mr W 
accepts that he didn't read the letters and notices he was sent, but I think he did know in 
April that they'd been appointed due to the telephone conversations he had with Birmingham 
Midshires about this, and his later call about the repairs needed to the property. Technically, 
Mr W had no right to market the property and agree a sale, though I note that the receivers 
were informed about the offer made. The receivers acted on Mr W's behalf, not Birmingham 
Midshires, as a matter of law. This means that their job was to deal with the property as if 
they were Mr W.
The process to get a property back is standard within the industry, and Mr W accepts that he 
couldn't clear the arrears or show he could pay the mortgage in the future. He wanted to sell 
the property himself partly as a point of principle and to avoid unnecessary costs. I 
understand why Mr W felt this way, though I note he struggled to pay the necessary costs 
when he was later able to try to sell the property (he told this service he couldn't pay for the 
leasehold information pack). It wasn't unfair or unreasonable for Birmingham Midshires to 
make Mr W aware of what he needed to do to get the property back , or apply the policy in 
the first place. The policy exists to ensure that borrowers aren't put straight back into an 
unsustainable position.This doesn't mean that the offer from the buyer found through Mr W's efforts couldn't be 
progressed. Contracts hadn't been exchanged and it was early days when Mr W told the 
lender about the offer. The difficulty is that until the receivers reported the best way forward 
in its opinion to Birmingham Midshires, no progress could be made. And the receivers were 
in a difficult position as Mr W wanted the work of the receivers paused (which is ultimately 
what happened, leading to the receivers withdrawing), there were difficulties with the 
property itself, and third parties also delayed matters - I say this based on the evidence 
provided by the receivers. Until the receivers had full possession of the property, assessed 
whether renting out the property or selling it was the best option and reported, the sale 
couldn't be progressed. And I reiterate that the lender wasn't responsible for the actions of 
the receivers. An example of the lack of control that Birmingham Midshires had over the 
receivers was their decision to withdraw.
Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage, agreed by Mr W when he took out the 
mortgage, Birmingham Midshires is able to charge him for the costs and expenses 
connected to his failure to pay the mortgage as required. This includes the costs of the 
receivers.
Taking all the evidence into account, as well as what the parties have said, I can't say that 
Birmingham Midshires has acted unfairly in relation to the refusal to return the property to Mr 
W once the receivers had been appointed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
25 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman