DRN-3588581
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (Trading as MoneyBoat) 
provided him with two unaffordable loans.
What happened
MoneyBoat provided Mr S with two loans. Details are given below:
Loan Capital 
amountTerm Date taken Monthly 
instalmentDate repaid
1 £500 6 months 23/01/2020 £150.95 17/07/2020
2 £1000 6 months 19/07/2020 £311.66 19/02/2021
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Were MoneyBoats checks reasonable and proportionate for Loan 1? And if they were, Did 
MoneyBoat make a fair lending decision?
MoneyBoat gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed to loan 1. It asked him for 
details of his income and his expenditure. It verified Mr Ss income by using an online tool 
and also by asking for a payslip. It then checked Mr Ss credit file to determine how much he 
was paying to other lenders. 
I think it is right that MoneyBoat wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about Mr Ss financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that 
the checks it did achieved that aim. Im currently minded to think that its checks for loan 1 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information 
MoneyBoat gathered from Mr S to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be 
given this loan.
MoneyBoat noted down Mr Ss income as around £1795 and it says it verified this by using 
an online credit checking service and by looking at a payslip. It also recorded down Mr Ss 
credit commitments and used the expenditure figures Mr S declared. It says it revised Mr Ss 
declared expenditure figure by £152. It then calculated Mr Ss disposable income as around 
£692. Mr S has raised concerns about this and suggested MoneyBoat ought to have found 
out more after it had seen that his declarations were not the same as its assessment. But I 
think its assessed amount was out by £152 and this was the first loan application that Mr S 
had made. I think with the amount of disposable income that it had assessed Mr S to have, I 
think it would have already gained some assurance that Mr S could repay the loan in a 
sustainable way, without the need to seek further information here. 
 
I can see the credit search that it conducted at this time that Mr S had a delinquent account, 
and this occurred only a few months previously and so this also ought to have given 
MoneyBoat concerns too. But at this stage, I think on balance, it conducted proportionate 
checks and then made a fair lending decision. The loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr 
S with the information it had gathered.
Were MoneyBoats checks reasonable and proportionate for Loan 2?
MoneyBoat says that it again carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S 
prior to providing him with loan 2 in August 2018. It says it also carried out a credit check. 
MoneyBoat says it verified Mr Ss income by using an online verification tool.  
MoneyBoat says it verified Mr Ss income was £2191. Mr S had declared his expenditure to 
be £550. This was a drop in the amount he had declared only a few months previously for 
his first application. MoneyBoat used information from his credit search to calculate his credit 
commitments. It added this to Mr Ss declarations and calculated that it needed to add a 
further £394 to the total expenditure figure. This would leave Mr S with a large disposable 
income of £1246 according to its assessment So, based on this I can see why it would think 
that Mr S could afford loan 2. But I dont think it carried out proportionate checks when it 
carried out its assessment.
I say this when I consider the amount MoneyBoat needed to alter Mr Ss expenditure figure 
by when it was assessing the affordability of this loan. After checking his credit file, it could 
see that Mr S had not declared enough in terms of the amount he was committed to 
repaying. I think what it calculated and what Mr S had declared were quite far apart, and 
ought to have given MoneyBoat concerns about the rest of his expenditure declarations for 
loan 2 also. Mr S still had a balance to repay with his delinquent account too and I think 
MoneyBoat ought to have wanted to find out more here as well. I think it ought to have gone 
further with its checks here and carried out a complete review of Mr Ss finances. This is so 
that it could assure itself that Mr S could repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to MoneyBoat that Mr S would 
have been unable to repay loan 2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 2 was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told MoneyBoat that Mr S would have been 
unable to sustainably repay loan 2.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Mr S has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before the loan 
was granted. He has provided statements in particular for June and July 2020. Ive carefully 
considered the information provided within these statements. Having done so, its clear Mr S 
was in financial difficulty at the time Loan 2 was granted. I will explain why I think this was 
the case.
Looking through the bank statements for June and July 2020, I can see that Mr S paid a total 
of £1988 in repayments to short term loan providers and debt management companies. In 
total this represented over 90% of Mr Ss monthly income. It is clear on seeing this that Mr S 
was having significant problems managing his finances. If MoneyBoat had carried out further 
checks, I think it is more likely than not it would have uncovered all of this. It would have seen that the loan repayments for Loan 2 were not affordable or sustainable for Mr S and I 
think it would have not provided him with it. 
So, it follows that I currently think that MoneyBoat needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr S responded and said he agrees with the provisional 
decision. He makes a couple of comments about the loans, including that the first loan 
could have been upheld too due to the income and expenditure declarations. He also 
mentions that the loans were meant as short term solutions but shortly after his first loan 
ended, he applied for the second one and it was for double the amount, further indicating 
that he faced financial difficulties. He also said the assessment was fair. MoneyBoat did 
not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has not made any new points for me to respond to and MoneyBoat has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint about loan 2.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for MoneyBoat to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments Mr S 
has made as payments towards the capital for each of this loan.
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then MoneyBoat should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If a balance still remains to be paid by Mr S, then MoneyBoat would need to discuss 
with Mr S a way to find an affordable repayment plan for this.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London 
Limited to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman