DRN-1708362
 
The complaint
 Even though it didnt actually sell the insurance complained about, Aviva Insurance Limited 
has accepted responsibility for dealing with this complaint as it was the insurer. So, just to 
keep things simpler, Ill refer in my decision to Aviva as the seller.
Miss R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
Theres only limited information about Miss Rs mortgage and this PPI after such a long time. 
None of the paperwork from the original sale is available and Aviva and Miss R told us that 
the policy was sold through an independent intermediary in October 2003. 
It said the policy was a stand alone product designed to protect mortgage repayments in 
the event that Miss R was unable to work. Miss R has questioned this. But stand alone just 
means that the PPI wasnt included as part of her mortgage deal and sold to her by the 
lender. Aviva says Miss R arranged her mortgage with a different business and her lender 
wasnt anything to do with Aviva.
The policy paid out in the event of a successful claim for disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel there was enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Miss R 
disagrees with our adjudicators view. Miss R mainly told us that she feels the policy was 
mis-sold to her because she was unaware that shed taken it out  she thought she only had 
building insurance. Miss R told us she wouldve claimed on the policy if shed known she had 
it. And shes unhappy that our adjudicator hasnt upheld her complaint despite the lack of 
paperwork to support what Aviva says.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
I dont know how Aviva wouldve presented PPI to Miss R or explained it to her during any 
discussions. There are no notes of any discussion about the PPI. But this isnt surprising 
given that this PPI was taken out so long ago - I wouldnt expect a business to keep records 
indefinitely and the lack of paperwork isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
And after so long it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss R to remember exactly what she 
was told when she took out the PPI. So I cant just rely on what Miss R says about the way 
she was sold the PPI. I have to be impartial. I have to look at everything Ive seen and been told and decide, by applying the test of balance of probabilities, what I think is likely to have 
happened. 
Aviva says that Miss R wouldve had to fill in a separate application to take out the PPI.
I think thats probably right. I say this because thats the only way that she could've taken out 
this PPI as its an Aviva policy  not a PPI policy sold by the lender. So I think its likely that 
at the time she wouldve understood that having PPI wasn't necessarily included as part of 
the mortgage deal she was applying for  PPI was something extra that it was up to her to 
arrange if she wanted to have it.
And I think its likely that Miss R decided she wanted the PPI because Aviva says she 
wouldve been written to shortly afterwards and sent details of the cover shed chosen 
showing that Miss R was covered. It says this letter would also have included information 
about how to claim, details of any exclusions or limitations and the right to cancel the policy if 
Miss R didn't want it. And as far as I know Miss R didnt query the position when, as I think is 
likely, she got such a letter.
I dont have any details of her borrowing but I expect her mortgage was an important 
financial commitment at the time. Her home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Miss R mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why Miss R mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think 
its likely that Miss R decided that she wanted to have the benefits and security that the PPI 
offered and she chose to buy the policy, knowing it was optional. 
As I dont know exactly what (if anything) was said about the PPI its not clear whether Aviva 
advised Miss R to take out the policy  and Aviva didnt say. Given the lack of paperwork 
showing how the PPI was sold to Miss R, I think the fairest way to decide this complaint is to 
look at it (the way our adjudicator did) on the basis that Aviva recommended the policy to 
Miss R. Doing this imposes an extra obligation on Aviva and gives Miss Rs complaint the 
best chance of success. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just 
have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.  
But even if I assume Aviva personally recommended the policy to Miss R it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
The actual policy that Miss R took out isnt now available for me to look at. But theres some 
information available about the cover it gave Miss R. And Ive no reason not to think its likely 
that in all main respects the cover provided wouldve been fairly typical of policies of this type 
at the time.
So, based on what I know of her circumstances at the time, Ive seen nothing that suggest 
Miss R wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Miss R first of all told us she was employed when she took out the policy and that she later 
became self-employed. She said that she had no other way of making the monthly mortgage 
repayments if she couldnt work.  
Shes since said this is incorrect and that when she was in the job she told us about she was 
self-employed. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss R told us. One of the few documents available 
now is the Certificate of Cover issued to Miss R. This is dated a few years after the policy started (and it looks like it was probably sent out to her around the same time that she 
cancelled the policy). But it shows some useful information about her circumstances at the 
time. This records Miss R as being employed. And it says on the form that its up to Miss R 
to tell the insurer about any change in her circumstances. 
So I think that if Miss R had seen that the insurer had her employment status incorrectly 
recorded  or her circumstances had changed and she wasnt any longer employed as it 
said on the Certificate of Cover - then its likely that she wouldve taken that up with the 
insurer at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that happened. 
Taking all this into account, I think its more likely that what she first told us about her 
employment situation is likely to be correct  and the limited paperwork thats available tends 
to support this. Miss R hasnt sent me anything to show that shes right when she tells me 
that she was actually self employed when she took out the policy  as well as later on. So, 
what she says about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to say this could be a 
reason to uphold her complaint. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit for 12 months per claim in the event of disability or if 
Miss R lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. Miss R told us she had no other way 
of making the monthly repayments on her mortgage if she couldnt work. So I think the policy 
couldve provided a useful benefit. I think that having a monthly benefit that protected her 
mortgage repayments fully for a year couldve been useful at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time.
So I find that the PPI provided Miss R with worthwhile protection in her particular situation 
and a recommendation (if there was one) to have it wouldve been suitable.
Probably there wouldve been some things the policy didnt cover. A typical example of this 
might be someone with an existing medical condition not being covered for absence from 
work due to that condition. But based on the information Miss R told us about her 
circumstances at the time, Ive seen nothing to make me think that this wouldve been likely 
to affect Miss R. She told us she was in good health when she took out this PPI. So, I cant 
fairly say that having more information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve 
likely made any difference to Miss Rs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the cost of the PPI was made clear to Miss R when she bought the policy. But 
its likely she wouldve signed an instruction form to her bank to cover the cost as her 
mortgage monthly repayments were set up separately. By this I mean that Miss R didnt pay 
the PPI premiums to her mortgage lender and she didn't pay her mortgage monthly 
repayments to Aviva  there were two separate payments out of her bank account going to 
different places. So it seems she was happy at the time to pay for PPI. I think its likely that 
Miss R couldve queried the monthly premium cost then if she felt this wasnt something she 
wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. And Miss R 
hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
Given the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured on her home, I think Miss R 
probably wouldve appreciated the peace of mind this cover gave her (even if shes forgotten 
now). And as she was paying for the PPI monthly, she could cancel it anytime without further 
cost if she wished. 
Its possible that Aviva mightnt have given Miss R clear information about all aspects of the 
PPI. But after carefully taking into account everything I've seen and been told, I think Miss R 
chose to take out the insurance. And I can see why she mightve thought it could be useful. 
Taking all her circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Aviva sold her the policy, on balance, I dont think that better information wouldve put Miss R off having 
PPI. 
So I dont find shes lost out as a result of anything that Aviva mightve done wrong. And 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman