DRN-2447511
The complaint
Miss E has complained First Response Finance Ltd granted her a hire purchase agreement 
which she couldnt afford. Shes also complained that the car provided under this agreement 
wasnt fit for purpose.
What happened
Miss E is represented in her complaint by her sister but for ease Ill refer to Miss E 
throughout.
In March 2020 Miss E was interested in getting a car. She spoke to First Response about 
her finance options and the cars she was considering and whether they were suitable. An 
initial car Miss E liked the look of didnt prove suitable as it had a manual gearbox. She 
made it clear what her budget was for any future financial agreement (£200-250 a month).
Miss E went to the dealership with family. In the end she decided to buy a specific car 
model. First Response agreed to provide her with a hire purchase agreement at a cost of 
£232.09 a month.  
The car was sold with 12 months MOT but Miss E was advised to have the brakes looked at. 
The dealership paid for them to be fixed. Almost as soon as shed bought the car, Miss E 
was concerned about it and felt she shouldnt have agreed to take the car. She was worried 
about the pressure put upon her to make this decision. Subsequently she realised that the 
whole cost of the credit was for more than £14,000, when shed thought the cost was nearer 
£7,000 (which was the price of the car). She complained about the condition of the car and 
that the credit agreement was unaffordable.
First Response felt theyd undertaken the necessary checks into Miss Es affordability and 
had conducted two detailed phone conversations with her. Dissatisfied with their response, 
Miss E brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
After a detailed review of the evidence, including First Responses affordability assessment, 
our investigator felt the evidence showed sufficient checks had been carried out and the hire 
purchase agreement was affordable. He appreciated Miss Es concerns  including the 
situation with her personal health  but didnt think he had any basis to ask First Response 
to do anything further.
Miss E felt shed been treated very unfairly and that the hire purchase agreement should be 
rescinded. An ombudsman has been asked to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the outcome I have.
There are a number of different strands to this complaint. These include the complaint 
Miss E made about the condition of vehicle. When Miss E first brought her complaint to our 
service, its clear she was concerned about the pressure put on her to take out the hire 
purchase agreement.
However the central part of Miss Es complaint is about unaffordability, and that First 
Response had taken little or no notice of her diagnosis on the autism spectrum. 
Firstly I confirm that Ive considered there was a fault with the car (specifically the brake 
pads). But I believe Miss E knew about this issue right from the beginning. The MOT 
specifically mentioned the condition of the brakes. And its been confirmed the dealership 
paid for the repairs. So whilst there may have been a breach of contract in terms of condition 
of the car, I can see action was taken to rectify the problem. Miss E has confirmed there 
have been further issues with the condition of the car. But First Response has not been 
given the opportunity to consider these issues so they are not the subject of this complaint.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator completed a detailed view dated 18 December 2020. I 
will inevitably be repeating some of the same issues as my basis for considering whether 
First Response conducted proper checks uses the same criteria as our investigator.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability aspects of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did First Response complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss E would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss E could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did First Response act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss E has been disadvantaged in any way by First Responses actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did First Response complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss E would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, First Response were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Es ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check has to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needs to be concerned with whether Miss E could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering her specific circumstances which would take into account her medical 
diagnosis), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to First Response as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Miss E took out a hire purchase agreement with First Response. The total amount repayable 
in the agreement was over £14,000.  The agreement was taken out in March 2020 for a five 
year period. The APR was 38.9% and Miss E was paying just over £230 a month. 
This was therefore a long-term commitment. My starting point is that any reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite thorough.
First Response has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending to 
Miss E. These helped them to understand what Miss Es current credit commitments were 
and to see how she was managing them. Miss E had a limited credit history but had fallen 
into arrears on previous debts. These appear to have all been more than four years before 
this hire purchase agreement.
First Response has told us that they were aware of Miss Es regular benefit payments which 
totalled just about £1,000 a month. This was all confirmed in the telephone conversations 
they had with her as well as checks they undertook on her bank statements. 
First Response has been able to provide us with the recordings of the two telephone 
conversations they had with Miss E. Its clear Miss E confirmed these benefit arrangements 
were long-standing. What also comes over is that Miss E was taking notes as the credit 
options were discussed with her. Im in no doubt First Response knew about Miss Es 
financial preferences about what this was to cost her a month.  
I can also see that it was made clear to her during these calls that the total amount 
repayable stood at over £14,000. The figures around the charge for credit  the rate she was 
being charged, what the credit was based on and the total amount payable are all clearly 
expressed on the pre-contract information that Miss E had before signing the hire purchase 
agreement. Im satisfied First Response made this information available to her.  
I can see that First Response undertook an income and expenditure check as well so overall 
Im satisfied they carried out checks that were proportionate to the credit being offered.
Did First Response make a fair lending decision?
Its clear that Miss E said within a short period of taking out the agreement, that she felt it 
was unaffordable. But Ive reviewed Miss Es financial situation at the time she took out the 
finance and I dont agree that it was unreasonable of First Response to offer the credit they 
did.
Miss E had a level of disposable income in excess of £600 a month. The hire purchase 
agreement accounted for a third of that amount. There would obviously be additional 
expenses associated with the car. These would have included insurance. But I can see First 
Responses decision took account of those additional expenses.We consider different criteria for assessing affordability. These include the proportion of 
disposable income thats used by the proposed credit, the proportion of overall income that 
is taken up by credit agreements as well as the ability of the customer to withstand any 
future economic shocks. Based on the criteria we review when considering unaffordability 
and the other evidence, including the phone calls between First Response and Miss E, I 
dont believe First Response did anything wrong here when granting Miss E a hire purchase 
agreement. I think First Response did what was needed to ensure Miss E could afford to 
sustainably repay the borrowing without causing her financial difficulty or the need to borrow 
further. 
Did First Response act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive looked at Miss Es belief that First Response didnt properly cater for her medical 
situation. But the calls between the two of them suggest otherwise. First Response 
specifically checked whether she wished they speak to her mother (who helped Miss E 
manage her finances). Miss E said that wasnt necessary. Miss Es sister  who was with her 
at the dealership  has told us that Miss E is keen to act independently but that this can 
cause her issues. I appreciate the problems this must cause but I dont believe theres much 
else First Response could have done.
Ive also considered what Miss E has said about being pressured to buy the car. Thats not 
the responsibility of First Response who are responsible for the finance agreement and the 
condition of the car but not the sales tactics of the dealer. I would say, however, that Miss E 
wasnt at the dealership alone. From the care for her her sister very obviously has, Id have 
expected her to intervene if she believed undue pressure was placed on Miss E. 
I see from First Responses contact notes when Miss E first contacted them on 27 April 2020 
that she told them she ended up coming away with a car that she didn't want, she liked it for 
the first couple of weeks because of the novelty, but she really hates it  she just wants rid 
of it. I suspect this is most likely the main reason for Miss Es complaint. She didnt really 
like the car; didnt feel she trusted the way it drove or felt and regretted her purchase. I 
completely understand how she felt but that doesnt mean Im in a position to ask First 
Response to rescind her financial agreement. 
Overall I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Es complaint against First 
Response Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman