DRN-2545770
The complaint
Miss H complains about a car FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd supplied to her under a hire-
purchase agreement. She has also expressed concerns about the finance arrangements, 
which she believes should never have been approved.
What happened
In late 2018 Miss H and her partner Mr W decided to get a new car. Mr W had recently 
received a lump sum payment as a result of being unfairly dismissed due to illness, and they 
used a substantial portion of this as a deposit. The remaining cost was funded by a hire-
purchase agreement. The agreement was set up in Miss Hs name. She describes that this 
was done because of Mr Ws credit history; however they were both intending to use the car 
as she was learning to drive.
Miss H says that while the finance company advertised 0% interest this was never offered. 
Instead she has been charged a rate of 17.5%. She adds that she and Mr W were confused 
by the sales process, leading to a significantly higher deposit than first thought, as well as 
added extras such as paintwork and alloy wheel insurance being applied to the sale.
A few months after taking delivery of the car, Miss H says they discovered while having a 
tow-bar fitted that the car had previously been damaged and resprayed, despite being 
described as in immaculate condition by the dealer. She has also cited an incident when 
jet-washing the car resulted in paint coming off the front bumper and alloys.
Miss H has also identified several discrepancies in the hire-purchase paperwork. She says it 
shows she held a full driving licence, that she was single, and that she worked full-time 
rather than part-time and on a higher salary than she actually earned. Miss H contends that 
this amounts to an unlawful accommodation deal.
In response, FCA Automotive says the paint problems with the car were identified and 
rectified by the dealer not long after Miss H took delivery, and that she accepted the car back 
following those repairs. Its position on the finance arrangements being made in Miss Hs 
name is that this was known and agreed by the parties at the time of entry into the hire-
purchase agreement. It has taken the same line on the interest rate applied.
With regard to Miss Hs concerns over discrepancies in the paperwork, FCA Automotive 
says that she signed documents containing the information she has questioned, confirming 
they were correct. It also said the dealer had supplied a supplementary invoice showing 
Miss H and Mr W paid cash for the paintwork and alloy wheel insurance.
FCA Automotive didnt accept Miss Hs complaint. However, it offered her £300 as a gesture 
of goodwill, which it said could either be paid directly to her or used in reduction of the 
finance settlement figure.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She found that Miss H had 
signed to confirm the personal information given to the dealer, and that FCA Automotive had 
undertaken credit checks. But she thought that FCA Automotive ought to have done more to 
verify what Miss H had told it. The investigator reviewed Miss Hs financial circumstances at 
the time to establish whether they indicated FCA Automotive might have made a different 
decision if it had carried out further checks.
After doing so, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the additional checks suggested the 
hire-purchase arrangement would have been unaffordable. She was satisfied Miss H would 
have been able to meet the payments as well as her existing monthly expenditure.
The investigator was further satisfied that the repairs carried out and accepted by Miss H 
were sufficient to address Miss Hs concerns over the quality of the car. And the investigator 
didnt think the dealer or FCA Automotive had misled Miss H over the hire-purchase terms, 
interest rate or the optional extras added. She further concluded that it wasnt unreasonable 
for the finance to have been set up in Miss Hs name in light of Mr W being unable to obtain 
credit himself. 
Miss H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She provided a detailed response setting 
out the aspects she considered to be wrong. In addition to the previous points shed made, 
she said (in summary):
FCA Automotive hadnt carried out checks to see if she could afford the payments if 
she was living on her own. This was effectively the situation she faced with Mr W 
being out of work. She had been told by third party advice organisations that the 
lender should have taken into account her ability to meet the payments if she and 
Mr W split up
Her true earnings were less than the figures the investigator had based her 
assessment on. They had originally intended to pay for the car in full and had instead 
been persuaded by the dealer to take out finance based on Mr Ws earnings rather 
than her own. She felt they had been preyed upon by the dealer
The car was never repaired and when theyd sought to raise this with the dealer, it 
hadnt been interested
so the matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not doubt that Miss H feels very strongly that she and Mr W have been the victims of 
some questionable activity by the car dealer and in relation to the finance arrangements. Her 
response to the investigators assessment demonstrates that strength of feeling.
My role here, however, is to look at matters objectively and dispassionately, and to say 
whether I think FCA Automotive needs to take any steps to resolve the dispute. I hope 
Miss H will understand that I do so not with any intention of understating her concerns, Mr 
Ws illness or the distress she feels, but because I must act impartially.
FCA Automotives creditworthiness assessment
The investigators assessment noted there are regulatory standards in place to say the sort 
of assessment a lender should carry out when considering whether to approve a finance 
application. Those standards are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are 
included in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). In light of the circumstances of this complaint and some of the points Miss H has made, I think it would be useful to look at those 
provisions.
In simple terms, when carrying out an assessment a lender needs to consider two risks. The 
credit risk (the risk to the lender that the customer wont make payments when they fall due) 
and the affordability risk (the risk to the customer that they wont be able to make the 
payments).
The credit risk is generally assessed by reference to the customers past and current record 
of taking on and servicing credit arrangements. There doesnt appear to be any question 
here that the dealer assessed this risk on FCA Automotives behalf. Mr W was declined for 
this reason, and Ive seen a copy of the credit check carried out on Miss H. Theres nothing 
there that suggests to me FCA Automotive ought to have had cause for concern over her 
payment history.
The key issue here is of course the affordability risk. This requires that FCA Automotive 
consider Miss Hs ability to make payments as they fall due over the life of the agreement. 
The CONC regulations say that it can do so using the customers income and (among other 
things) income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such 
income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement.
This is important, as it clearly shows that it is acceptable for a lender to consider overall 
household income rather than solely income received by the borrower. Miss H and Mr W 
were seeking to acquire the car for their joint use (Miss H describes how she intended to use 
it as a learner driver) and I see no reason to conclude they were unwilling to proceed based 
on income they both received.
I accept there were discrepancies between the information submitted in the finance 
application and Miss Hs own personal situation. But it seems to me that this was with the 
knowledge and agreement of Miss H, Mr W, the dealer and  by extension  FCA 
Automotive. I dont consider this to be a scenario in which any of the parties were being 
misled as to the true nature of the arrangements such that it might be considered unlawful.
But this income assessment isnt the only consideration. The regulations also require that 
payments can be met without failing to make any other payment the customer has a 
contractual or statutory obligation to make; and without the payments having a significant 
adverse impact on their financial situation. That requires that the lender has regard for the 
customers (and where appropriate, the household) income and expenditure.
There is nothing in the regulations that would have required FCA Automotive to consider the 
possibility of Miss H and Mr W splitting up, or that she would need to be able to demonstrate 
she could afford the payments alone in such circumstances. It would only need to do so 
where this is a reasonably foreseeable situation that would be likely to lead to a reduction in 
the income used for that assessment.
Theres no suggestion that Miss H and Mr W told FCA Automotive this was something that 
might well arise during the finance term, and it certainly wouldnt be an assumption Id 
expect a lender to make. Similarly, while Mr W subsequently suffered a reduction in income 
because he was unable to work, theres no reason for me to think any of the parties ought to 
have foreseen that this would happen when entering into the arrangements.
The regulations do say that it isnt generally enough for a lender to rely only on a statement 
of current income made by a customer. It should usually obtain supporting independent 
evidence, such as through a credit reference agency, or via payslips or accounts. Like the 
investigator, I dont think FCA Automotive did enough in this respect, or to establish Miss H and Mr Ws outgoings. Although the degree of checks should be proportionate to aspects 
such as the level of borrowing and the repayments, there was a limited amount that FCA 
Automotive actually did to ensure Miss H and Mr W could meet the payments without them 
having a significant adverse impact on their financial situation.
That isnt in itself enough to say the payments werent affordable. It simply changes the 
question to whether proportionate checks would have shown they werent affordable. Having 
reviewed the bank statements and other information weve been able to obtain for the 
material time, Im not persuaded that this was the case. The hire-purchase monthly 
payments were £289. Based on the income and expenditure weve been able to view for 
Miss H and Mr W, that level of payment should have been sustainable.
In the course of the complaint Miss H has expressed concern at her ability to sustain 
payments due to her part-time wage and changes to the household finances due to Mr Ws 
employment status. I recognise the stress Miss H has been under and the worry shes 
described at the possibility of the car being repossessed. But I dont find this indicative of an 
inappropriate lending decision by FCA Automotive.
While there might have been some shortcomings in the checks FCA Automotive carried out, 
the proposal Miss H and Mr W put forward appeared affordable and sustainable based on 
what was known at the time. An unforeseen change in circumstances such as Mr W losing 
his job is most unfortunate and undoubtedly affects his and Miss Hs ability to meet the 
payments. But theres nothing to suggest that FCA Automotive ought to have known that this 
was likely to happen, and it would be unreasonable for me to say that a lender should never 
provide credit to someone because they might, during the term of the finance, lose their job. 
That is a risk we all face.
I do empathise with Miss H and her financial situation. As the investigator said, there are 
organisations that can help people experiencing financial difficulty to deal with their creditors. 
If Miss H is still experiencing difficulty, I would urge her to seek assistance from one of these 
organisations, details of which have already been provided.
Was the car supplied of satisfactory quality?
Miss H has said there were problems with the paintwork and has provided a letter from the 
third party that fitted the tow-bar that said the rear bumper had at some point been removed, 
noting missing and non-standard clips used. She disputes FCA Automotives assertion that 
the dealer carried out work on the car to deal with the paintwork issue.
Ive seen the invoice for the repairs carried out to the vehicle. It is dated 7 December 2018, 
shortly after Miss H entered into the hire-purchase agreement. The invoice shows a repair 
and paint carried out on the front bumper and lower splitter, and renewal of the rear bumper. 
None of this information is inconsistent with the comments of the tow-bar fitter. Nor is it 
indicative of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. Rather, it points to defects identified with 
the car and repairs carried out to bring it up to a satisfactory standard, in line with the 
relevant legislation (the Consumer Rights Act 2015).The interest rate applied to the hire-purchase agreement
I do not consider the fact that the dealer advertised 0% interest meant this would be the rate 
Miss H would be entitled to have applied to her finance arrangements. The rate offered to a 
customer is generally based on various factors relating to the individual borrower. In this 
case the interest rate at which FCA Automotive was willing to offer credit to Miss H was 
17.5%. This was clearly shown on the agreement, which Miss H was able to accept or reject 
as she saw fit. Given that her evidence is that she and Mr W had originally intended to pay in 
full for the car, I have to conclude that the fact she proceeded with the hire-purchase 
agreement indicates she was happy to go ahead at the rate shown.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman