DRN-3015877
The complaint
J, a limited company, brings this complaint. J complains that it couldnt access its money 
after The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed its account.
Mr K, Js director, brings this complaint on Js behalf. 
What happened
J held an RBS business account. In October 2019, RBS wrote to J to let it know that theyd 
be closing the account and gave J 60 days notice.
When RBS sent J the money, they sent a cheque in the company name. Mr K, on behalf of 
J, said he couldnt pay the cheque in, as he didnt have an alternative account for J. RBS 
agreed to transfer the amount by bank transfer to Mr Ks alternative account directly if Mr K 
filled in a form and provided photo identification.
Mr K said he filled in the relevant form in branch in February 2020 and provided the relevant 
identification. The advisor in the branch told Mr K the money would be with him in around 20 
days  however Mr K didnt receive it. RBS said they hadnt received a copy of Mr Ks 
identification and they couldnt release the funds without it.
Mr K, on behalf of J, referred the complaint to our service and RBS then agreed to transfer 
the money. RBS said while they still hadnt received the relevant identification, they made an 
exception to their process in an attempt to resolve the complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy  he wanted compensation due to the time it had taken, the 
inconvenience caused, and the loss of earnings J suffered. He said J had gone without this 
money for around 9 months, and due to the nature of the business, lost out on a lot. The 
investigator who looked into things thought it more likely than not that Mr K had filled in the 
form and provided the relevant identification. So, she asked RBS to pay £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RBS agreed but J didnt. Mr K said the situation had caused him sleepless nights and hed 
spent money travelling to the branch and hours on the phone trying to resolve the situation. 
He also said the loss of earnings hadnt been considered.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
Earlier in August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it I said;
RBS closed Js account as theyre entitled to do under the terms and conditions. I note the 
closure of Js account isnt in dispute, but I thought it would be helpful to confirm that Im 
satisfied RBS didnt do anything wrong when closing it.
RBS sent a cheque to J with the balance of the account. The cheque was made payable to 
J. This caused Mr K problems as he wasnt able to cash the cheque because he hadnt been 
able to open another account in Js name. 
As the owner of the account was J, I dont think RBS did anything wrong in issuing the 
cheque in Js name. It was unfortunate Mr K hadnt opened another account in Js name  
but I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for that. Nonetheless, Im pleased to see RBS offered 
to rectify things by giving Mr K an alternative option of a bank transfer.
RBS explained to Mr K that hed need to fill in a form and provide photographic identification 
for them to be able to make the bank transfer. Mr K says he visited an RBS branch in 
February 2020, and they helped him fill out the form. RBS havent been able to provide any 
system notes to confirm this visit took place  and Mr K has only been able to provide his 
testimony. However, having looked at all the other evidence, including telephone 
conversations between Mr K and RBS, Im satisfied based on the balance of probabilities 
that Mr K did fill out the relevant form in branch. Because of that, I think its reasonable to 
believe that the branch staff would have checked Mr K had provided everything he needed 
to on the form  including photographic identification. So, I conclude that RBS had all the 
information they needed to make the transfer on 24 February 2020 during Mr Ks branch 
visit. 
I recognise Mr K didnt receive Js money until August 2020. And while I recognise the 
impact this would have had on J, I cant reasonably uphold the complaint. I say that because 
RBS sent a cheque to J when they closed its account. So Im satisfied J had access to the 
money straight after the account was closed. I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that 
the reason for Mr K not opening another account for J was the fault of RBS. So while I 
recognise the delays in Mr K receiving Js money, I dont think RBS was the cause of this.
Because of that, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask RBS to compensate J for the impact 
on it not having the money  including the loss of earnings. I recognise the time and effort 
spent by Mr K in trying to resolve things but, for the purposes of this complaint, the 
relationship RBS had was with J, not Mr K. And the complaint surrounds what happened to 
the business agreement J held, and the money which belonged to J. In other words, Mr K 
represents J on this complaint, but he doesnt have an applicable customer relationship in 
his own right for this account. He may feel he and his company are and the same, and this is 
understandable, but under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook this is not the case. Simply put, a limited company cannot experience 
personal distress or upset at the hands of RBS. So, Mr Ks distress and frustration are not 
losses experienced by J.
So I didnt think RBS had to do anything differently.
RBS responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. Mr K 
responded and remained unhappy. He said he had to use money to keep his business 
going.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt this situation would have been really difficult for Mr K. But Ive explained above 
why I cant consider the distress caused to Mr K as an individual. And thats because this 
complaint involves J as a limited company. And a limited company cant suffer distress.I would be able to consider the loss of trading J suffered if I think it was a direct result of 
RBS actions. But I dont think it was. RBS issued a cheque with the outstanding balance of 
Js account to J. Mr K hadnt opened another account in Js name  but thats not the fault of 
RBS.
I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS prevented Mr K opening an account elsewhere 
for J. I recognise not having an account in Js name meant Mr K couldnt easily cash the 
cheque. But, based on the circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly hold RBS 
responsible for that.
So, I wont be asking them to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman