DRN-1316044
The complaint
Mrs O complains that she experienced difficulties in logging into her Nationwide Building 
Society account. Shes also unhappy about its response to her requests for assistance and 
how it dealt with her complaint. 
What happened
Mrs O holds an account with Nationwide. She said since August 2019 shes experienced 
difficulties in logging into her account via internet banking. 
Mrs O said she contacted Nationwide on 3 September 2019 via its webchat to gain 
assistance. She said she waited five minutes but didnt receive a response. But Nationwide 
said it wasnt able to locate the message Mrs O had sent it via webchat.
Mrs O also said she contacted Nationwide again the same date to request a One-Time code 
so she could re-register for internet banking. But she said she didnt receive one. Nationwide 
said it had an issue with sending One-Time codes to certain customers. And it stated that 
Mrs O was one of those customers affected.
On 7 and 8 October 2019 Mrs O spoke with Nationwide about difficulties she was 
experiencing in accessing its website. She explained that she was seeing messages which 
stated your connection is not private. Nationwide said it contacted its IT department to 
clarify why Mrs O was seeing these messages and it said the messages had been 
generated as a result of her device settings.
Mrs O wasnt happy about the difficulties she had experienced or how Nationwide had 
offered to assist her. So, she complained. After Nationwide investigated, it upheld her 
complaint about not her difficulties in receiving the One-Time codes and the level of service 
she received on the webchat. To recognise the distress and inconvenience she experienced 
in relation to these issues it offered her £75 compensation. But it said it wasnt responsible 
for Mrs Os difficulties in logging into her online account. And, when it listened to call 
recordings between Mrs O and Nationwide staff, it said it couldnt find any reference that she 
was told shed receive a call back. So, it didnt uphold these aspects of her complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with how Nationwide had responded to her complaint Mrs O referred it to 
our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence Mrs O and Nationwide had provided but 
didnt uphold this complaint. They thought Nationwide had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly 
and thought the compensation it had offered was appropriate and fair. So, they didnt think it 
needed to do anything more here. But Mrs O disagreed and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mrs O and Nationwide that Ive read everything that theyve 
provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mrs O experienced in logging into her account. Its 
clear she thinks these issues were caused by Nationwide. But its provided our service with 
evidence that shows that she was locked out of her online banking due to having entered 
incorrect details on its system. So, Im persuaded that Mrs Os difficulties in accessing her 
account online were caused by errors she made, for which I cant fairly hold Nationwide 
responsible. 
I can appreciate how frustrating it must have been for Mrs O to have been unable to re-
register for internet banking on 3 September 2019. Im satisfied that this was caused by an 
IT error on Nationwides part, which meant it wasnt able to issue One-Time codes. Ive no 
doubt this caused inconvenience to Mrs O at a time when she required access to her 
account. And I understand that she later received two One-Time codes, which would have 
compounded her inconvenience by causing confusion as to which one she should utilise. 
Mrs O has complained about the service she received from Nationwide when contacting it 
via its webchat to request assistance on 3 September. She said she waited five minutes but 
didnt receive a response. 
Having searched its records, Nationwide isnt able to locate the webchat in question. But that 
doesnt mean the webchat didnt happen or what Mrs J has said is wrong here. I dont doubt 
she tried to use webchat to contact Nationwide on the date in question. I think its possible 
she waited five minutes for a response due to the demand on that service at that time. This 
would have impacted on Nationwides ability to respond and the time that would have taken. 
And I can understand why this would have been frustrating to Mrs O.
While Nationwide hasnt been able to find the webchat in question it' apologised for Mrs Os 
experience and upheld this part of her complaint. In the absence of a webchat record 
Nationwide could have disputed what Mrs O said here. But its given her the benefit of the 
doubt, which I think was fair.
Its clear that Mrs O isnt happy with how Nationwide dealt with her in October 2019 when 
she requested its assistance with re-registering as she wasnt able to access its website. It 
was around this time that she saw an error message stating your connection is not private.
From the comments Mrs O has made it seems she believes this issue was caused by 
Nationwide. But Im persuaded that this message wasnt triggered by a technical error on the 
part of Nationwide. Instead, I think its more likely that she saw that error message due to her 
device settings. Ill explain why.
Nationwides IT Team investigated the error message and gave advice that the problem 
wasnt something affecting its website or other customer accounts. It provided a plausible 
number of explanations that could have caused the error message she saw  none of which 
are technical errors for which I can fairly hold it responsible. And I think if the problem Mrs O 
had experienced had been caused by Nationwide it would have been able to resolve it. 
I can see that Nationwide attempted to help Mrs O resolve the difficulties this error message 
caused her. I say this because it contacted its IT Team in order to seek advice and it relayed 
their advice on to Mrs O. I think this all demonstrates that Nationwide took appropriate action in trying to assist Mrs O here. And when it exhausted the option of providing further guidance 
to Mrs O it recommended she seek professional advice. I dont think this was unreasonable 
in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mrs O has complained about how Nationwide dealt with and responded to 
her complaint. She says it didnt contact her when it said it would. But Nationwide stated 
that, after listening to all calls between it and Mrs O, it wasnt able to find any evidence that 
anyone had promised or arranged for a call back. It explained that on the occasions Mrs O 
telephoned for an update she was informed of that a response would usually be received 
within three business days or, if that wasnt possible, written communication would be sent.
Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Nationwide hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be 
able to uphold that element of Mrs Os concerns or make an award. So, I wont address this 
any further here.
To recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs O was caused in relation to how 
Nationwide dealt with her request for a One-Time code and the level of service she 
experienced via the webchat Nationwide offered her £75 compensation.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Nationwide to 
apologise for what happened and pay an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the 
parts of Mrs Os complaint it upheld. But Nationwide has already apologised and offered 
compensation. So, Ive considered whether its offer was a fair and reasonable amount. 
Having taken everything into account Im satisfied that the compensation already offered is a 
reasonable amount. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. And Im persuaded that the amount already offered is in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios  so I wont be ordering Nationwide to increase its offer. I 
understand that this compensation has not yet been paid to Mrs O. So, if she wishes to now 
accept it she should contact Nationwide directly to do so.
I understand Mrs O feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
she will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs O 
any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs O to decide whether 
she wishes to approach Nationwide Building Society to accept the £75 it offered to resolve 
this complaint.
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman