DRN-2674956
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her 
home emergency policy.
 
Aviva uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Mrs C held a policy that provided insurance cover relating to emergencies and other 
domestic incidents involving plumbing and drainage.
In October 2020 Mrs C had an issue with a leak in her bathroom. She contacted Aviva, but 
there was a misunderstanding whereby Mrs C thought an engineer would be attending her 
property to investigate and repair the leak, but Aviva thought she was going to book an 
appointment. In the circumstances Aviva agreed that Mrs C could use her own engineer to 
fix the leak, and that they would reimburse her for the cost on production of an invoice for the 
work.
Mrs C then changed her mind and requested that an Aviva engineer attend. The engineer 
attended and advised that no evidence of leaks was visible, but that there were cracks in the 
grouting around the shower and that this would not be covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs Cs own engineer attended the property the following day. He did not agree with the 
diagnosis of the Aviva engineer, diagnosing a leaking shower waste pipe.
 
Mrs Cs engineer then attended the property later in October to repair the damage caused by 
investigating the cause of the leak, including replacing the shower tray. Based on the invoice 
for the work by Mrs Cs engineer Aviva accepted that their engineers diagnosis had been 
incorrect and awarded Mrs C £55 in compensation for her being unable to use the bathroom 
until the leak was diagnosed and repaired.
Aviva also considered the invoice for the work itself carried out by Mrs Cs engineer. They 
noted that the invoice stated:
Shower waste pipe had split, water had been leaking for some time, as the 
floor and floor joist have rotted.
Aviva considered that this indicated that the leak had been ongoing for a while. As 
such, while they would cover the cost of repairing the leak itself, the damage caused 
by the leak was not covered under the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy.
Regarding access that needed to be created to carry out the repair, Aviva drew Mrs 
Cs attention to other terms and conditions that stated they were not liable for the cost 
of establishing access to identify (and repair) the leak.
Mrs C complained to Aviva, unhappy at the consequential damage that had occurred 
as a result of the repair of the leak.   
Aviva did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. In their Final Response Letter of November 
2020 Aviva considered that the damage incurred was classified as consequential, 
noting the comment on the invoice from Mrs Cs engineer. Based on this, Aviva 
confirmed that they did not accept liability for the damage. But Aviva added that if Mrs 
C supplied an itemised bill they would be happy to assess the repair carried out for 
compensation. Aviva also confirmed the rejection of the claim in respect of 
establishing access to carry out the repair.
Mrs C was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service 
in January 2021. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He concluded overall that Aviva had 
acted fairly, and that their decision to decline the elements of Mrs Cs claim had been 
made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mrs C.
Mrs C has two main points of complaint, firstly that Aviva declined to pay for the 
damage caused by the leak, which Aviva considered to have been ongoing for some 
time. And secondly that Aviva declined to pay for the consequential damage caused 
by the access needed to carry out the repair.
In respect of the first part of Mrs Cs complaint, Ive considered the comment of the 
independent engineer engaged by Mrs C about the cause of the leak and that water 
had been leaking for some time Ive also considered the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Cs policy. Ive noted that under the heading Home Emergency General 
Exclusions these include a statement that 
f. any defect, damage or breakdown caused bynegligence
i. Normal day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by your policy at your 
property for which you are responsible.
In her response to our investigators view, Mrs C states that the engineer [she] 
employed was independent and that she didnt see the comment about the cause of 
the damage before she sent off the invoice to Aviva. She goes on to say that had she 
seen it she would have challenged it, and that the engineers involvement was limited 
to providing an invoice for Aviva.
Ive considered Mrs Cs response, but I dont agree. The engineer she engaged 
diagnosed the cause of the leak and carried out the repair, and theres no indication 
of any problems with either the diagnosis nor of the repair. Its reasonable for him to 
comment on the nature of the cause of the leak and that, in his view, it had been 
ongoing for some time. As the engineer is an expert, then Im persuaded by his view 
and Ive seen no evidence from Mrs C that would lead me to doubt the validity of the 
comment from her engineer. Regarding the second aspect of Mrs Cs complaint, Ive read the terms and conditions 
of her policy and note that they state, under the heading of Creating access:
On arriving at your property, the engineer will aim to locate the source of the 
incident. If direct access is not available (for instance if there are floor tiles or 
floorboardsin the way) the engineer will need to create access. If you want 
our engineer to do this, you will be asked to confirm this in writing while the 
engineer is at your property. Unless stated in any of the What is covered? 
sections below, we will not cover you for any damage that may be caused to 
the property, its contents, fixtures, fittings, floorings or sanitary ware (unless 
the damage is caused by our engineers negligence). If you do not want the 
engineer to create access, we will be unable to do the work until you have 
arranged access.
I think these terms and conditions are clear that damage caused by an engineer 
creating access is not covered. Ive also read the What is covered? sub-sections 
referred to in the terms and conditions quoted, and they dont provide cover for 
damage in those circumstances. So Ive concluded that Aviva have acted fairly, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
For these reasons, while its reasonable that Aviva have offered to pay for the repair itself to 
fix the leak, Ive concluded that Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting those 
elements of Mrs Cs claim that relate to consequential damage and to establishing access. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman