DRN-2728953
The complaint
Mr B complains that TransferWise Ltd wont refund two disputed transactions made on his 
debit card. Mr B says he didnt carry out the transactions. Hes unhappy TransferWise have 
closed his account. He would like TransferWise to refund the disputed transactions and give 
him compensation.
 
What happened
On 13 November 2019 Mr B went into a restaurant and bar abroad. Mr B has said he made 
a genuine payment in local currency which was the equivalent of around 11.42 Euro using 
his card and PIN. 
Mr B contacted TransferWise on 14 November to report two further transactions carried out 
at the same bar. The disputed transactions totalled the equivalent of over 3,000 US dollars. 
Mr B thought that someone had got his PIN number after the genuine transaction and used 
his PIN to authorise the two disputed transactions.
Mr B reported the matter to the police and to the Consul General at his embassy.
Mr B provided the receipts to the transactions. These showed that the disputed transactions 
were made using chip and PIN meaning the genuine card and correct PIN were used to 
carry out the transactions.
Mr B said that he got the receipts for the fraudulent transactions through the Consul General 
and that the receipts show a signature that isnt his. 
TransferWise said the receipts show that the transactions were chip and PIN verified and no 
signature was needed to authenticate the transaction. As the actual card was used.
TransferWise declined Mr Bs claim they said that as the correct PIN and genuine card had 
been used for the transactions, they thought Mr B had likely authorised the transactions. 
They said they were entitled to close the account in reliance of their terms and conditions 
and because of their legal and regulatory obligations. They wouldnt be reactivating his 
account.
Mr B was unhappy with TransferWises response, so he complained to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. He said he thought it most likely that Mr B had 
authorised the transactions because the genuine PIN had been used and there was no 
evidence of how Mr Bs PIN was compromised. So, he didnt think TransferWise needed to 
refund the transactions. He also said TransferWise were entitled to review and close the 
account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions of the 
account.  So, he didnt think they had done anything wrong there.
TransferWise agreed that they should have returned Mr Bs closing balances sooner and 
offered Mr B 75 Euro in compensation for their error.
Mr B was unhappy with the view. He wanted an ombudsmans decision and was unhappy 
with the offer made by TransferWise. He said it was for the payment service provider to 
prove the payments were authenticated, he mentioned that authentication was not sufficient 
to prove the transaction were authorised by the payer. He didnt think TransferWise had 
complied with the Payment Services Regulation 2017. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Generally, TransferWise can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I have seen the banks technical evidence and I am satisfied that Mr Bs genuine card and 
PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. Mr B has mentioned the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. He is right that it isnt on its own enough for TransferWise to 
hold Mr B liable just because the transactions have been authenticated. Authorisation is 
made up of authentication and consent. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not Mr B consented to the disputed transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TransferWise to conclude Mr B 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
The disputed transactions were made using the genuine card and PIN. Mr B has 
suggested that someone must have gained access to his PIN following the genuine 
transaction he made.  I agree that this is a potential point of compromise for Mr Bs 
PIN.  But a fraudster would have needed his card also.
Mr Bs cards were in his possession and Mr B has never mentioned that the cards 
were missing.  As the genuine cards were used for the disputed transactions its 
difficult to see how a fraudster could have got access to Mr Bs cards without his 
knowledge, used them to carry out the two disputed transactions and then replace 
them without Mr B becoming aware.
Mr B has said he wasnt in the establishment at the time of the disputed transactions.  
But I cant see how that can be the case, as the transactions were carried out using 
the genuine card and PIN and Mr B hadnt lost his card.
Mr B says he carried out a genuine transaction in the restaurant, the evidence shows 
this was at 20.46 UK time. The first disputed transaction took place at 23.08 UK time 
and the second at 23.25 UK time. I think its unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster 
having got hold of Mr Bs card and PIN would wait over two hours to start using the 
card.
I am aware that there is CCTV evidence, but I havent seen that footage. I am not 
aware of what it shows and therefore I am not going to comment on it. 
As Mr B said he didnt carry out the transactions he would not have had the receipts 
for the transactions in his possession. Mr B said that the police via the Consul General provided him with the receipts of the two disputed transactions. I find it hard 
to believe that the police would release such evidence to a third party whilst they 
were investigating. But even if they had, I still think the fraudster would have needed 
the card and PIN and I cant see how that could have happened.
Mr B has said that the receipts show a signature that isnt his and he has provided a 
report from a forensic expert to validate this. As the two receipts were authenticated 
via Chip and PIN a signature wasnt needed. The disputed transactions were 
authorised using Chip and PIN and from the evidence Ive seen its more likely that 
Mr B carried out the transactions. 
Taking everything into account, I find on balance that Mr B authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows I wont be asking TransferWise to do anything here.
Account review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied TransferWise were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs account. 
I know Mr B found it frustrating that his account was reviewed and blocked. Ive already said 
that TransferWise has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. Im satisfied that is what it was doing when it reviewed Mr Bs accounts. So, I 
dont think it has done anything wrong.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
The terms and conditions of the account say that TransferWise could close the account with 
immediate effect in certain circumstances. Looking at the evidence provided by 
TransferWise I am satisfied they were following the terms and conditions to close the 
account with immediate effect. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong.
Putting things right
  Return of funds
TransferWise have accepted that they should have returned funds remaining in Mr Bs 
account to him sooner. The funds were the equivalent of about 30 US dollars. In 
consideration of their error TransferWise have offered Mr B 75 Euro in compensation.
I have considered the amount and I am satisfied that this is fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I direct TransferWise Ltd to pay Mr B 75 Euros in compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman