DRN-3129280
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC gave it incorrect information about an 
international payment it had wanted to send.
What happened
The director of J contacted Metro Bank to arrange to make an international payment for 
Euros 4,000 on 7 April 2021. He was told that the payment had gone through. But he was 
then told on 15 April 2021 that it was being held as more information was required. The 
payment was declined.
Metro Bank said that it had sent an email to J asking for more information about the 
payment. But due to miscommunication by its team in further phone calls the processing was 
delayed. It had provided feedback to its staff. And it wouldnt provide any more information 
about why the payment was declined. It paid J £75 as an apology.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and J be paid a total of £350 in 
compensation. A previous payment to the same supplier had been made. Metro Bank had 
told J that this new payment had been completed too in phone calls. And this incorrect 
information had caused inconvenience and damage to Js reputation. J said it had lost an 
initial deposit of Euros 3,000 as it couldnt meet its commitment to pay the further amount. 
And it said that it would forgo large gross profit margins on the items it was buying. Our 
investigator said that J hadnt provided documentation to support this and that he would 
have expected J to consider other ways of paying this money.
Metro Bank didnt agree that £350 was reasonable and said that £75 reflected the service 
failings. 
J didnt agree. The director said that he wanted J to be compensated properly for the loss of 
business and as a minimum Euros 3,000 plus interest and compensation for the loss of 
reputation. He didnt see how Metro Bank could have seen the payment as processed when 
it never showed on the printed account statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank is responsible for complying with legal and regulatory requirements. And this 
may mean it reasonably needs to make checks on payments and especially those sent 
abroad. I dont think the fact that J had made a payment to this supplier before necessarily 
meant that this payment would go through without checks. And that process was at the 
discretion of Metro Bank and not something this service has a role in reviewing as we arent 
the regulator.
The position is that Metro Bank wasnt satisfied with the information J provided about this 
payment and declined to make this on 15 April 2021. The issue is the incorrect information it 
gave to J about that payment up to this date and any effect this had on Js business.
Ive listened to recordings of calls Metro Bank has provided. J was told on 7 April 2021 that 
the payment could take up to five working days to reach the beneficiary. On 8 April 2021 the 
director was called and asked for information to support the payment including invoices and 
details of the beneficiary. He was unhappy about that and asked that the requirement be 
sent in writing. Later that day he called and seemed (as the recording is unclear at that point) 
to say he had sent receipts. The member of staff he spoke to said that the payment had 
gone. On 12 April 2021 he called about accessing a password protected document and was 
again told that the payment had gone. On 15 April 2021 he received a call saying that the 
payment was instead still being held in suspense. During the call he emailed information to 
Metro Bank which seemed to be a blank letter head from the supplier. He was unhappy to be 
asked further questions about the nature of the business transaction. And he said that he 
had spoken with the supplier and been told that the money hadnt by then arrived. Metro 
Bank says that a decision was made later that day not to process the payment.
For the reasons Ive already given whether or not to send the payment was a matter for 
Metro Bank. And it wasnt prepared to make this based on all the information J provided. 
J has clearly been caused inconvenience and been given incorrect information including 
about what showed on a bank statement. But Metro Bank never committed to the payment 
being received by the beneficiary before five working days. And J was told after that period 
that the payment wasnt being sent. It had told the supplier the payment was on the way. But 
I cant see evidence about whether it then took any steps to mitigate the impact and say 
send this by different means. When the director referred his complaint to this service he is 
noted in a call record of 28 May 2021 to have said that he was waiting to hear from the 
supplier about the deposit (the first payment to this supplier) and the business opportunity.
J hasnt provided any other documentation about payment terms, the contract, the business 
opportunity or to support what the supplier has said. Im not persuaded that the delay in 
Metro Bank declining to make this payment has caused it financial loss and that reasonable 
steps couldnt have been made to mitigate the situation. And our investigator had already 
explained to J the sort of information wed have wanted to see to assess that any further.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that J was caused inconvenience by the misinformation and the needless calls. I 
bear in mind that J is a separate legal entity and cant suffer distress. I dont doubt that there 
was an element of reputational impact for J in having to explain to the supplier that the 
payment hadnt actual been sent and the bank error. But I bear in mind that Metro Bank 
declined to send it in any event. And also, what I said above about reasonable mitigating 
steps and the lack of evidence supporting an ongoing impact solely relating to this issue.
The amount of compensation is a matter for my judgement, and Ive taken into account our 
published guidance. Having done so I think that the amount of £350 the investigator 
recommended is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience and the impact of J passing on 
incorrect information to its supplier as Ive explained above. I understand Metro Bank has 
already paid £75 and so a further £275 is to be paid. If J doesnt accept my decision it is free 
to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to pay J a further 
£275 making a total of £350 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman