DRN-3576001
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) delayed payment of an 
investment plans proceeds and hasnt offered sufficient compensation. 
What happened
Zurich was told in June 2020 by Mr Ws bank that he had passed away. It cashed in his 
investment plan on the next working the day. The amount payable as a result was in the 
region of £50,000. Mr Ws estate contacted Zurich shortly afterwards on 22 June 2020. 
Zurich accepts it should have then sent the estate details of how to claim the plan proceeds. 
But it did not actually follow this up until 24 June 2021. As a result, the estate did not claim 
the plan proceeds until after that time and those proceeds remained in cash throughout.
The estate has sent us a copy of the grant of probate, dated 4 December 2020. Zurich has 
told us it wouldnt have released funds to the estate without this.
In August 2021 other investments held or formerly held by the estate were converted into 
cash by the estate or its beneficiary.
Our investigator suggested Zurich compensate the estate for lost growth from a point shortly 
after the grant of probate until the August 2021 date other investments had been cashed in. 
The growth would be measured using the return on other investments held by the estate 
during that period. For the period after August 2021 our investigator thought Zurich should 
pay interest at a rate of 8%.
The estate didnt object to this proposal. Zurich disagreed and wanted instead to pay, both 
before and after August 2021, interest at 1% above official bank rate. The reasons it gave for 
this were, in brief summary:
The funds wouldnt necessarily have been reinvested in the way the other estate funds 
were  and it is unfair to frame redress proposals using hindsight.
The estate could have mitigated any loss it felt it was entitled to, by completing its claim 
against the plan, and this would not have prejudiced any claim it felt obliged to make. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. I wrote 
to the parties with some comments and provisional suggestions concerning redress. In brief, 
I suggested Zurich pay interest on the plan proceeds at a rate of 1% above official bank rate 
for the period before the estate obtained probate and at 8% for the period after. 
Zurich didnt provide anything more or reply to me. The estate did reply. In summary it said: 
It is impossible to say how the plan proceeds wouldve been re-invested, bearing in mind 
things like the difficulty of identifying a new investment matching the plan and the lack of 
specific documented reinvestment proposals drawn up at the time. But the actions taken 
with other investments show the plan proceeds wouldnt have been kept in cash. 
A simple interest award of the kind I had suggested was probably a fair compromise in 
light of the above. But it wasnt necessarily right to use the actual probate date as the 
earliest point the plan funds couldve been reinvested  because the estate wouldve got 
probate sooner if Zurich had told the estate it needed this. The other institutions the 
estate had dealt with hadnt required sight of probate, so the estate only applied for 
probate when it came to report for inheritance tax purposes.
In the months that followed the estates initial contact with Zurich, when it didnt receive 
more from Zurich, the estate didnt chase Zurich and assumed the plan was probably a 
joint life policy. This was generally just an oversight by the estate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and to award the estate compensation 
along the lines I previously outlined to the parties. Ill briefly explain my reasons.
Zurich ought to have got in touch with the estate shortly after the estates June 2020 contact 
with Zurich. Zurichs failing delayed the release of the funds to the estate, and it held onto 
the funds during the delay. 
In my view Zurichs suggestion that it pays interest on the plan proceeds and at a rate of 1% 
above official bank rate, rather than a higher rate, is fair and reasonable for the period before 
probate was available - because until then the plan proceeds would have remained in cash 
and could not have been reinvested or applied in some other way by the estate.
Once probate was available, the plan proceeds could have been reinvested or applied in 
various ways by the estate. Its not clear exactly what the estate might have chosen to do. 
The estate gave Zurich no indication during the delay as to how it wanted to use the plan 
proceeds. With those points in mind, I think it fair and reasonable that Zurich pays the estate 
simple interest on the plan proceeds from that point at the rate of 8% per year. Ive seen 
nothing overall to suggest a different rate would better reflect the value to the estate of its 
loss of use of the funds.
Interest should apply until the funds are paid. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Zurich 
suggested to the estate that if it accepted a payment it could still pursue its complaint about 
compensation for loss of return. I dont think the estate acted unreasonably in pursuing its 
complaint in the way that it has. 
Ive carefully considered the estates point that probate would likely have been obtained 
earlier if Zurich had made the estate aware this was needed. Ive considered also that the 
estate did not chase up Zurich during that period  and this wasnt due to any fault or failing 
by Zurich. With all this in mind I think using the actual date probate was obtained is fair.
Putting things right
To put things right, Zurich Assurance Ltd should:
A) Pay the estate of Mr W the plan proceeds plus interest at the rate of 1% above official 
bank rate from the date the plan was disinvested until 4 December 2020. 
B) Pay the estate of Mr W simple interest on (A) above at the rate of 8% per year from 
4 December 2020 until the date of my decision.C) If Zurich Assurance Ltd has already paid the estate of Mr W any part of the plan proceeds 
or interest on this, Zurich Assurance Ltd may deduct this from the sums due above. 
D) If Zurich Assurance Ltd doesnt pay my award within one month of receiving from us 
notification of the estate of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision, Zurich Assurance Ltd should 
also pay the estate of Mr W simple interest on the outstanding sums at the rate of 8% per 
year from the date of my decision until to date the sums due are paid to the estate of Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold the estate of Mr Ws complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd 
must put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman