DRN-2082637
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) led them to believe they had to pay 
to cover their medical conditions each year, or they wouldnt have any cover under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of their bank account. Each year, since 
2013, theyve called UKI to declare their medical conditions and paid an additional premium. 
In 2019, Mrs H called up to go through screening. She wasnt happy with the price she was 
quoted. So she queried it. The call handler told Mrs H she didnt need to pay to cover her 
existing medical conditions, although an age-extension premium was payable.
Mr and Mrs H complained to UKI because they said theyd been led to believe that the policy 
wouldnt offer any cover whatsoever unless they took up the medical upgrade. They were 
also unhappy with the service theyd received from UKI, after its systems went down and 
they didnt get a manager call-back.
UKI accepted thered been system problems when Mrs H had repeatedly tried to call. And it 
acknowledged she hadnt had a call-back. So it sent Mr and Mrs H £50 as compensation to 
recognise its poor service. 
But UKI didnt agree itd told Mr and Mrs H it was mandatory to take out cover for their 
medical conditions. It said the policy booklet stated that policyholders would need to declare 
any medical conditions they wanted to be covered for. And itd listened to two of the upgrade 
calls. It was satisfied Mr and Mrs H had been quoted an upgrade price which theyd agreed 
to pay.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with UKIs response and asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought the fact 
Mrs H had called UKI to declare her conditions indicated shed wanted to be covered. He 
thought Mr and Mrs H had had the benefit of cover for their existing conditions. He couldnt 
see anything in the policy terms that suggested the policy would be void in its entirety if a 
policyholder didnt take up the medical upgrade. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said one of UKIs staff told them each time they upgraded 
they shouldve been advised that they didnt have to take up the medical upgrade. They 
asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that they were led to believe they had to pay for the 
medical upgrades to have any cover at all under the policy. UKI didnt sell Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy  that was down to their bank. But it does need to ensure the policy terms are clear, 
fair and not misleading.  So Ive first considered what the policy says about medical 
conditions and whether theres a need for medical screening before a policyholders entitled 
to any cover. And whether the terms are clear.
In the Important Information section of the policy, it says:
 Your policy will only operate:
-If you tell us about any medical conditions you wish to be covered for.
The Medical Declaration section says: You must tell us about each pre-existing medical 
condition you wish to be covered for any insured person.
The policy doesnt cover claims that happen because of an existing medical condition, 
unless the conditions been declared to UKI and its agreed to cover it.
I think the policys clear that policyholders only need to tell UKI about any existing medical 
conditions they have (and potentially pay for an upgrade) if they want to be covered for any 
claims that happen because of those conditions. I dont think the policy wording suggests 
that theres no cover at all for anything unless a policyholders bought the medical upgrade.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to two medical upgrade calls between Mrs H and UKI. Im 
satisfied Mrs H chose to call UKI to declare her medical history (and her husbands). The call 
handlers ran through a set of screening questions and gave Mrs H a quote for an additional 
premium. In the first call, Mrs H was asked, Would you like me to put that into place for 
you? She chose to go ahead. In the second call, Mrs H offered to pay once the quote was 
given.
I dont think the call handlers suggested Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be covered for anything if 
they didnt pay the upgrade. Im satisfied the first call handler clearly told Mrs H what the 
additional premium would be and asked if Mrs H wanted to go ahead. So I think Mrs H ought 
to have known she had a choice about paying the additional premium. 
UKIs sent us a copy of the call scripts its call handlers follow when going through medical 
screening and upgrades. Ive checked whether theyre required to tell a policyholder they 
dont have to pay for additional cover, or that medical upgrades arent mandatory. Im 
satisfied theres no requirement to state this during upgrade calls. I also think it shouldve 
been clear from the sales process itself that the upgrades were optional. Thats because, as 
Ive explained above, Mrs H couldve said no when she was asked if she wanted to put the 
additional cover in place and declined to pay the additional premium.
Taking the calls and the policy terms into account, I think UKI made it sufficiently clear that 
the additional cover wasnt mandatory. And it was down to Mr and Mrs H to choose if they 
wanted to pay the additional premiums for medical cover.
I accept Mr and Mrs H feel theyve paid a lot of money over the past few years for medical 
cover they say they didnt need and wouldnt have taken. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me its most likely UKI told Mr and Mrs H they had to pay for the medical upgrade 
in order to have any travel insurance cover whatsoever. I dont think this is indicated by the 
policy terms or the calls Ive listened to. Its possible Mr and Mrs H couldve been given upgrade information when the policy was sold, but UKI didnt sell the policy. So it isnt 
responsible for information Mr and Mrs H mightve been given by the seller.
Overall, I dont think UKI has misled Mr and Mrs H about their policy cover. By taking out the 
upgrade, they ensured they were covered for any claims which arose because of the 
conditions theyd declared. So I think they had the benefit of the cover. And while UKI 
recognised thered been systems issues when Mrs H called, I think it paid enough 
compensation to reflect this. This means Im not telling UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman