DRN-3859508
The complaint
Miss G complains Next Retail Limited irresponsibly provided her with a catalogue shopping 
account and increases to its credit limit.
What happened
In October 2013 Next provided Miss G with a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit 
which appears to have been for around £150. There were multiple amendments to increase, 
decrease and suspend the limit over the years up to the account ultimately being suspended 
around December 2021. 
Miss G complained to Next in November 2021. She said the original limit and increases were 
unaffordable to her; and that had Next completed reasonable and proportionate checks it 
would have identified this. Miss G therefore says Next irresponsibly provided her with this 
catalogue shopping account and the credit limit increases over the years. 
Next didnt consider Miss Gs complaint about the original lending decision and limit increase 
before November 2015; because it said Miss G had complained about these events outside 
of the regulatory timescales. It did consider the limit increases after November 2015 and 
concluded it had made fair decisions to lend at each event. 
Miss G referred her complaint to our service for review. She felt her full complaint should be 
considered; but by way of an ombudsman decision, it was decided our service only has 
jurisdiction to review the limit increases from November 2015.
Our investigator reviewed the limit increases from November 2015 and concluded that the 
limit increase in December 2015 shouldnt have been provided; but our investigator noted 
Miss G hadnt suffered a financial loss as her balance never went above the previously 
approved limit which, as Ive noted above, we arent able to consider. As such, she didnt 
uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She maintained her position that Next 
shouldnt have provided her with limit increases when she had made it aware of financial 
difficulties. Miss G asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss G.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint.   
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly lent 
to Miss G. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Next lent required it to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Gs 
ability to afford the lending and repay it sustainably, without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Next to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about the limit increases on Miss Gs account 
after November 2015.
The first limit increase I can consider was in December 2015 where Miss G was provided 
with an increased limit of £2,000. 
Next has said it considered the historic management of Miss Gs account as part of its 
assessment when considering this increase; as well as information it received from credit 
reference agencies which took into account her other credit commitments and her 
management of these. It says this information was all reviewed alongside its internal data 
and based on this it completed reasonable and proportionate checks and went on to make a 
fair lending decision to increase the limit.
Ive carefully considered Nexts argument here, but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when approving the limit increase in December 2015. I 
say this because this was a fairly significant increase to the previous limit Miss G had in 
place, doubling the amount of credit available to her. I consider it would have been 
proportionate at this point for Next to have obtained an understanding of Miss Gs financial 
position, by verifying details of her income and outgoings; in addition to the information it did 
gather from credit reference agencies about her existing credit commitments, and the 
internal data it considered about the historic management of the account. As it doesnt 
appear Next did verify Miss Gs income and outgoings, Im not satisfied it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider what Next would likely have identified had reasonable and 
proportionate checks been completed. 
Miss G has provided this service with bank statements covering the months leading up to 
this limit increase. Ive used these to build a picture of what Next would likely have identified 
about Miss Gs financial position, had it verified her income and outgoings. 
Miss Gs statements show that her income is variable and does fluctuate significantly on a 
month by month basis; ranging from around £540 to around £730 across the three months 
before this increase. During each of these months Miss Gs balance drops to, or gets very 
close to, single figures before she receives her salary. In one month, Miss Gs account 
entered an unauthorised overdrawn position. This suggests to me that Miss G was already 
manging her finances to a very tight budget; and at times wasnt able to maintain her 
outgoings without unauthorised borrowing. The fact that Miss Gs income can fluctuate fairly 
significantly month to month demonstrates how precarious her financial situation was. I think had Next verified details of Miss Gs income and expenditure it would, on balance, 
likely have identified further borrowing wasnt affordable to Miss G; and therefore, it would 
have concluded that Miss G wasnt a suitable candidate for further lending.
For this reason, I dont think Next made a fair lending decision when increasing Miss Gs 
credit limit to £2,000 in December 2015; and it therefore follows I dont consider it made fair 
lending decisions when approving any further limit increases.
Our usual approach to redress in complaints like this would be to direct Next to refund any 
interest, charges or fees applied to the account on balances above the last fair lending 
decision; and adjust the account accordingly. If this leads to a credit position where any 
outstanding balance is cleared, Next should pay the funds to Miss G with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. If this leads to a balance still to pay, then 
Next should agree a suitable payment arrangement with Miss G to collect the remaining 
funds. In addition, we would usually ask Next to remove any adverse information recorded 
about the account from Miss Gs credit file once any outstanding balance was cleared.
However, Miss Gs account balance never went above the £1,000 limit approved in 2014 
which, as Ive detailed above, is outside of our services jurisdiction to consider; so, Miss G 
hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the unfair lending decisions Ive found Next 
made from December 2015 onwards. As thats the case, it therefore follows Im satisfied 
Next doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of Miss Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont think Next Retail Limited acted 
fairly when approving the limit increases from December 2015 onwards; but as Miss G 
hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of these limit increases, Im not directing Next 
Retail Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman