DRN-2558936
The complaint
Mr B complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited took a payment for a 
roadside assistance policy they werent entitled to.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B took out a roadside assistance policy with AA. In October 2020 this 
policy was automatically renewed, which Mr B said he didnt authorise. He was also unhappy 
they wrote out to an address he says hed not lived at for eight years.
AA said Mr B called up to take out a policy on 30 September 2019, but ultimately took out 
the policy online. They said the cover was set up without any involvement from them, and 
confirmation issued to his email. AA added as part of this, automatic renewal was agreed. 
This was confirmed in the email, and paperwork was sent to the address they were provided 
with. AA said renewal paperwork was sent to the same address on 17 August 2020  and 
because the paperwork wasnt returned, they took the payment in good faith. AA didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. AA added the payment had since been recalled by Mr Bs card 
provider.
Mr B wasnt happy with AAs response, so asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so. He found the information provided to Mr B when taking out 
the policy included information about it automatically renewing. And that before the renewal 
happened AA wrote out to Mr B at the address they had for him. Although Mr B says this 
was the wrong address, there was no evidence to suggest Mr B had told AA of a change of 
address.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said AA cant keep charging a card unless its stopped by him 
saying so  you need explicit consent to charge the card which he didnt give. He said he 
didnt receive a letter saying theyd do this, and as he didnt authorise this payment its fraud. 
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think itll help to explain Mr Bs payment was taken under a process called a continuous 
payment authority (CPA). In Mr Bs case, when he signed up for AAs cover in 
September 2019, AA have treated him as giving them a CPA  which means hes authorised 
them to take further payments in the future. Mr B disputes hes ever given them authority for 
more than one payment, so Ive looked at the information weve been provided with to 
decide if he did or didnt.
Our investigator asked AA to provide information about what Mr B would have seen when he 
took out the policy online. AA couldnt provide the exact information for Mr B, but did provide 
examples of what hed have seen. The relevant section said, at renewal, AA would 
automatically renew a customers membership unless cover is cancelled. It also says a 
renewal reminder will be sent three weeks before.
I cant know if this is what Mr B saw, so Ive looked at the other information provided. AA 
sent us the welcome letter they sent to Mr B in September 2019 when he took out the policy. 
This shows AA saying as Mr B had chosen to pay by continuous card, theyd automatically 
renew his policy each year using the card details provided  unless he tells them otherwise.
This is quite common in insurance matters where providers will say unless theyre told 
otherwise, theyll renew someones policy each year. So, I dont think AA have acted unfairly 
by saying theyd do this.
AA have said they sent Mr B a text, email and letter confirming his arrangements when he 
took out the policy. Mr B hasnt said he didnt receive any of this information  so Ive no 
reason to doubt he was given it. So, on balance then, I have to conclude he was told about 
the automatic renewal based on the letters alone.
AA said they wrote out to Mr B, using the details hed provided, before the policy 
automatically renewed. This letter asked Mr B to get in touch if he didnt want his policy to 
renew. AA have said he didnt get in touch, and it seems Mr B only did get in touch after his 
policy renewed. So, I cant say AA did anything wrong in renewing the policy, as Mr B hadnt 
told them not to. 
So, taking everything into account then, Im satisfied when Mr B took out the policy he 
agreed to the automatic renewal. As a result of that, I dont require AA to do anything further.
Mr B says AA sent the renewal letter to an address hes not lived at for over eight years. AA 
have said they wrote to the address given at the time Mr B took out his policy with them. I 
cant know for certain how this happened, but as Im satisfied Mr B authorised AA to 
automatically renew his membership, I dont think it affects matters.
Finally, AA have said Mr Bs card provider have refunded the payment. Our investigator told 
Mr B theyd said this, and hes not disputed it. So even if I had found AA did something 
wrong, which for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied they didnt, then I wouldnt be 
asking them to do anything further anyway as Mr Bs seemingly had the payment refunded.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman