DRN-3124386
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wont settle his home insurance 
claim in full.
What happened
Mr P took out an Admiral home insurance policy in April 2018. In January 2021, thieves 
broke into an outbuilding in Mr Ps garden and stole well over 100 bottles of premium spirits 
and wines that were stored in approximately thirty boxes. These bottles had been gifts given 
to Mr P over more than 30 years, so he was unable to provide Admiral with receipts or other 
proof of purchase to evidence his claim. 
Instead, Mr P provided a handwritten inventory that he had kept updated which listed bottles 
that had been added to or removed from the collection. He also sent Admiral photos showing 
four labelled bags that had been left by the thieves. He invited Admiral to cross reference the 
contents of these bags with his inventory. Mr P says the total value of the stolen bottles is at 
least £5,000 and possibly £8,000 given the increase in value of some of the older bottles. 
Admiral said that while it didnt think Mr P was being dishonest, he hadnt provided enough 
evidence to substantiate his claim. It didnt think Mr Ps inventory was adequate proof that 
the items listed had been stolen. It offered Mr P £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill to settle the 
claim. Mr P didnt think this offer was acceptable, so he complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She understood 
why Mr P couldnt provide receipts and agreed that his inventory provided some evidence of 
the bottles he owned. However, she didnt think this was enough for Admiral to accept the 
claim in full. She thought Admiral had acted fairly by offering him £1,000.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The break-in and theft arent disputed. So the only issue for me to decide is whether Mr P 
has provided enough information for Admiral to settle his claim in full. On balance, I dont 
think he has.
Page 8 of Mr Ps policy booklet explains how Admiral settles claims. It says Admiral may 
request further information to support a claim. Such information might include receipts, 
invoices, or valuations of the items covered. That doesnt strike me as unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mr P says he cant be expected to provide receipts for the stolen bottles given these were 
mostly gifts given to him over a 40 year period. I agree with him. But I do think its 
reasonable to expect Mr P to be able to substantiate his claim in some other way, such as 
photos of the missing bottles or  given his estimate  a formal valuation of the collection. 
Mr P says cross-referencing the inventory with what remains in the bags confirms [the] 
validity of his claim. I understand his argument but Im afraid I dont think its enough. 
I think its also worth noting page 10 of Mr Ps policy booklet. This says: Any high risk item 
or collection exceeding the Unspecified item limit must be shown on your Home Policy 
Schedule as a specified item. We will not pay more than the Unspecified item limit for 
any single high risk item or collection not shown on your Home Policy Schedule. 
Please contact us if you need to add a specified item to your Home Policy Schedule. [my 
emphasis]
Section 2 goes on to say: Collections. If you wish to insure a collection, for example a stamp 
or coin collection, it must be shown as a specified item on your Home Policy Schedule if its 
total value exceeds the Unspecified item limit. 
I think Mr Ps bottles of premium wines and spirits could reasonably be described as a 
collection. It isnt listed as a specified item on Mr Ps policy schedule. The unspecified item 
limit on his policy is £1,000. In the circumstances, I think Admirals offer of £1,000 is fair.
Ive a lot of sympathy for Mr P, and I understand the emotional connection he has to his 
collection, built up over many years. However, I dont think it would be fair for me to require 
Admiral to pay out such a high value claim based solely on a handwritten list kept by Mr P 
and photos of what wasnt stolen. 
Im satisfied that Admiral has acted reasonably and its offer of £1,000 to settle the claim is 
fair. Ill leave it to Mr P to decide whether hes prepared to accept that offer. Mr P has told 
Admiral hes prepared to take legal action in this matter. I understand this and my decision 
doesnt prevent him from doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman