DRN-2465884
The complaint
Mrs L says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in 1995 in connection with a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mrs L says she wouldnt have agreed to buy the PPI, and she disputes that she 
ticked the box on the store card application form to buy the cover. Ive noted 
everything Mrs L has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs L and 
AXA when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over 
twenty five years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time.
Mrs Ls store card application form was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. 
There was a box underneath the one that was ticked, that couldve been completed 
if Mrs L hadnt wanted the PPI. So from what Ive seen, on balance I think Mrs L 
wouldve realised she had a choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs L has told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that AXA didnt make her aware that the policy was optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about her circumstances, or whether she 
had any other means to cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Mrs L, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though Mrs L says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to those benefits. The PPI wouldve allowed Mrs L to use 
her employer sick pay to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to 
rely on her family. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Mrs L despite her 
existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs L would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman