DRN-3693744
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Accelerant Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy after his vehicle was stolen. Hes unhappy with the 
settlement offer and hes unhappy with the time it took to reach this settlement.
Reference to Accelerant includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy underwritten by Accelerant. When his 
vehicle was stolen, he made a claim. Mr S complains about that claim. Hes said it took 
Accelerant too long to reach a settlement figure. And he doesnt think the settlement figure is 
fair. So, he complained.
Accelerant said the settlement figure was fair. It said it wasnt persuaded that Mr S had 
evidenced he purchased the vehicle for the amount he said he had. So, it thought the 
payment of £3,600 was fair, as that is all it thought Mr S was able to evidence hed paid. 
Accelerant didnt think it had taken too long to reach that decision.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators recommended it be 
upheld. She thought Accelerant needed to pay the market value of the vehicle, which she 
said was £7,645.80  minus any policy excesses. She didnt think there had been any 
unavoidable delays in progressing Mr Ss claim. But she thought the low settlement would 
have been distressing for Mr S, so, she recommended Accelerant also pay him £100 
compensation.
Mr S agreed, but Accelerant didnt. It maintained it only needed to pay what Mr S could 
evidence he paid for the vehicle. And it pointed out that the policy also had a limit of £7,000 
based on what he said the van was worth.
As Accelerant didnt agree, the case has come to me to issue an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ultimately Mr Ss policy insurers him for the market value of his vehicle. It doesnt 
insure him for the amount he paid for it. So, whether or not Mr S can evidence what 
he paid for it is irrelevant in determining what Accelerant should pay him here. If 
Accelerant had concerns about the ownership of the vehicle then it needed to make a 
decision on whether or not to pay the claim at all. By paying out on the claim its 
shown its satisfied the loss happened as Mr S described it and that he owns the 
vehicle hes claiming for.
A fair market value as shown by the trade guides is £7,645.80. Accelerants own 
engineers valued the vehicle £7,200.
I dont find the term limiting the amount paid on a claim to be fair because: 
oThis only benefits Accelerant - If Mr S said his vehicle was worth more than 
its true market value, Accelerant would only need pay the market value. But if 
Mr S said his vehicle was worth less than the true market value, Accelerant 
would only need pay what Mr S said it was worth. This is unbalanced and 
unfair.
oThe limit is based on an estimate only, not a detailed valuation.
oAccelerant also accepted this policy on the basis that the vehicle was worth 
roughly £7,000. This is the amount set on the schedule. And this isnt too far 
from the market value determined by the trade guides and Accelerants 
engineer. So, I find £7,000 a reasonable estimate anyway.
I dont find any unreasonable delays in the progress or settlement of this claim, but 
like our investigator I agree the low offer would have caused a degree of distress and 
inconvenience to Mr S and so think a fair offer to compensate this is for Accelerant to 
pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Putting things right
Accelerants settlement offer is unfair, so, to put things right it should pay Mr S the difference 
(£4,045,80) between what it has already paid him (£3,600  made up of payment of £3,100 
and policy excess of £500), and the market value of the vehicle (£7,645.80). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Accelerant Insurance 
Limited to:
Settle Mr Ss claim by paying the full market value of the vehicle (£7645.80). The 
policy excess of £500 can be deducted from this amount, as can any amount 
Accelerant has already paid Mr S relating to this claim and the market value of his 
vehicle. 8% interest should be added to this settlement. Interest should be calculated 
from the date Mr S was given the settlement offer to the date Accelerant makes full 
settlement.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman