DRN-2519081
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc staff treated them in a branch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A say they visited a HSBC branch on 29 June 2020 and were subjected to 
aggressive and racist behaviour by its staff. They say they were asked to provide evidence 
of identity and asked security questions without regard to security and confidentiality. In 
summary Mr and Mrs A would like a full investigation into what took place and for HSBC to 
tell them what disciplinary measures it has taken against the staff members. They would like 
a review of the unusual activity on their account and for HSBC to review its policy on 
confidentiality as well as compensation for what took place.
HSBC says its not made a mistake and its staff didnt racially abuse Mr and Mrs A. It says it 
followed its security process for identifying Mr and Mrs A and asked appropriate questions 
as they were not regular customers to the branch they attended. HSBC says it doesnt have 
the video footage of the incident.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator explained we couldnt look at parts of the complaint about complaint handling 
and couldnt ask HSBC to change its process. The investigator thought HSBC had followed 
its process for identifying a customer and didnt think Mr and Mrs A had been treated any 
differently.
Mr and Mrs A say the racism is being ignored and that they were racially profiled. They 
question why the video footage wasnt kept.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
they feel about what took place.
The investigator has explained that we cant look at Mr and Mrs As complaints about how 
HSBC has dealt with their complaint. I appreciate that isnt the main part of the complaint but 
I make clear that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so I cant fairly comment 
on that and for example the grammar and spelling in HSBCs final response letter. We are 
not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what its policy should be on identifying 
a customer and we could not fairly order it to disclose the outcome of any disciplinary 
proceedings even if it carried them out.
Im satisfied the main part of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs A say they were the victims of 
racism. I have looked at HSBC policy for identifying customers and Im satisfied that HSBC 
is entitled to ask questions of its customers and followed that policy in these circumstances. I 
am sure Mr and Mrs A appreciate that banks and building societies must have such security 
measures in place, but I accept that inevitably means legitimate customers can be asked a 
number of questions or asked to provide evidence of identification.
I have not seen any evidence that the questions asked of Mr and Mrs A or the evidence they 
were asked to provide was as a result of racism and I have not seen any evidence that they 
were treated any differently to any other customer in these circumstances. I also think HSBC 
authorised the transaction which I think again provides evidence that the staff members 
simply followed HSBCs security process.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A would have liked us to have viewed the video footage of the 
branch visit. I accept that HSBC were told to keep the footage by Mr and Mrs A, and I think it 
ought to have viewed and kept it in these circumstances. But I dont think it likely it would 
have shed any light on what took place. I say that as its unlikely it would have had sound 
and I dont think there is any real dispute here that Mr and Mrs A were asked for 
identification and asked questions by HSBC staff. I dont think there is any suggestion used 
that HSBC used racist language and I dont think any video footage would show that the 
HSBC staff members questions and requests were motivated by racism.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC followed its security and identification procedure. I dont think Mr 
and Mrs A were regular customers of the branch and I dont think the HSBC staff could have 
known about the previous fraud problems Mr and Mrs A experienced. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly conclude HSBC acted in a discriminatory manner. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman