DRN-3438216
The complaint
Mr W complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
unfairly terminated his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr W has held an income protection policy since 2005. The cover is designed to provide a 
benefit in the event he is unable to carry out at least two of a list of work tasks as defined by 
the policy. And there is a 13 week deferred period. 
Mr W worked as a courier, and in March 2020 he was injured when he fell down some steps. 
He was unable to work following the injury, and made a claim against his policy. 
Following some delays, Royal London accepted the claim in September 2020.  It paid 
benefits to Mr W for a period of around six weeks after the end of the deferred period. 
However it said it wouldnt pay the claim beyond the end of July 2020, as it thought there 
was insufficient medical evidence to support his continued incapacity. 
Mr W provided further medical evidence in October 2020, which Royal London reviewed. 
This included reports from an Ophthalmologist detailing investigations into Mr Ws vision. 
And records from Mr Ws GP and the hospital Musculoskeletal clinic in regard to the injury to 
his ankle.  
Royal London said it wasnt satisfied Mr W was unable to complete at least two of the work 
tasks defined in the policy, after July 2020. It noted Mr Ws injury to his leg and the difficulty 
he had walking. However it said the reports referred to Mr Walking slowly, so it didnt accept 
that he was still unable to walk to the extent set out in the policy working tasks. And similarly 
it said there was no evidence showing he was unable to lift. In regard to Mr Ws vision, it said 
it noted some impact to his peripheral vision, but thought he was still able to see well enough 
to read size 16 point text.
Mr W complained. Royal London said Mr Ws policy was based around his ability to 
complete the work tasks. And not based on his overall ability to work in his job. It said it had 
reviewed all of the medical evidence, and thought its decision to terminate the claim after the 
end of July 2020, had been correct. 
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Royal London 
had acted unfairly. 
Royal London made no further comments. However Mr W disagreed with the investigators 
view and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Royal London has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, I should clarify the documentation Royal London has provided, satisfies me that the 
applicable definition for Mr Ws policy is work tasks rather than own occupation.  Royal 
London referenced the incorrect definition in a letter sent to Mr W in September 2020. 
However Royal London has confirmed this was an error, and has provided documentation 
from the inception of the policy, which evidences the policy has always been based on work 
tasks. 
The work tasks listed within the policy are Walking, Lifting, Hearing, Speech, Vision and 
using a pen, pencil or keyboard. The work tasks relevant to the claim Mr W made, and their 
definitions are as below.  
Walking - the ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other aid if
required, without stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting - the ability to pick up 1kg from table height and carry it for 5 metres.
Vision - the ability to see well enough to read 16 point print using spectacles or other 
aids if
required.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this case, Im persuaded that Royal London hasnt 
acted unfairly in terminating Mr Ws incapacity claim. And I say this for the following reasons. 
Royal London originally accepted and paid Mr Ws claim for six weeks as it said it 
thought the evidence supported that he was unable to perform the work tasks of 
walking and lifting. But it said it would not pay the claim any further after the end of 
July 2020, as it thought the medical evidence for the period after this, no longer 
supported that Mr W was unable to perform two of the defined work tasks. So Ive 
considered the medical evidence related to the period after 31 July 2020.
The medical evidence shows Mr W had some difficulties with his vision, that he 
requires reading glasses and was prescribed eye drops. However the policy 
requirement for the working task of vision is based on the ability to see well enough 
to read size 16 point print, with glasses if needed. And as Ive not seen any medical 
evidence which shows Mr W was unable to do this, Im satisfied he did not meet the 
policy terms of incapacity based on that working task. 
Ive also considered the working task walking. The medical evidence reflects Mr W 
was suffering with ankle pain, and that he had difficulties walking, running and 
jogging. Hed undergone physiotherapy and his medical records note him being able 
to walk, although with a limp. So whilst I do not doubt Mr W was in pain with his ankle 
and his walking was more limited, Im not persuaded that he met the policy definition 
for the working task of walking. To meet this Mr W would need to have been unable 
to walk 200 metres without stopping or without the use of an aid. And the medical 
evidence doesnt persuade me that he was unable to do this.  Royal London had accepted Mr W was unable to perform the working task lifting for 
the period up until the end of July 2020. However in the medical evidence Ive 
reviewed for the period immediately following this, Ive not seen anything which 
supports Mr W was still unable to lift and carry an item as set out in the policy 
definition of that work task. 
Its not in dispute that Mr W was still experiencing the ill effects of his injuries beyond 
the end of July 2020. And he continued to be signed off work by his GP after this 
time. So I can understand why he would expect his claim to be paid. However the 
test here is not as simple as whether or not Mr W was able to return to work. The 
policy he has in place has a strict set of conditions which are to be met for a claim to 
be paid, or for continued benefit on an accepted claim. And in the circumstances of 
this case, Im not persuaded the medical evidence shows Mr W met the conditions of 
being unable to complete two of the six work tasks, after the end of July 2020. And 
so it follows that I dont think Royal London acted unfairly in terminating his claim at 
that point.
Mr W also complained of delays in Royal Londons handling of his claim. He submitted his 
claim in mid-June 2020, and didnt receive a decision until mid-September that year. Royal 
London has accepted it caused unnecessary delays in assessing the evidence supplied, and 
it paid Mr W £300 in compensation as a result. 
I can appreciate that Mr W was inconvenienced by the delays and that waiting for an 
outcome when he was not receiving an income from his job would have been stressful. And I 
note that he made several attempts to contact Royal London for an update on his claim. 
However, I think the £300 paid in compensation adequately reflects this impact on Mr W. So 
I dont think Royal London needs to do anything more than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman