DRN-3262946
The complaint
Ms J complains that TSB Bank plc have not allowed her access to internet banking using a
computer/laptop.
What happened
Ms J says that TSB have blocked her access to log in to her online account via her personal
computer from September 2020. She says that when she uses a computer or laptop to
access the site it brings up an error message. Ms J has used several browsers and has also
tried to access the website via a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Ms J did have some success
logging into her online account using a third party browser and a VPN, until she became
unable to use this method. Ms J is still having issues accessing TSBs online banking pages
through multiple internet browsers using a computer.
Ms J complained to TSB. TSB wrote to Ms J and said that they were aware of an issue
where some customers were receiving an error message when trying to access their website
using a specific internet browser, but the issue had now been resolved. TSB credited Ms Js
account with £40 for any inconvenience and frustration which was caused.
Ms J still had issues logging onto her account via her computer, so she contacted TSB
again. TSB explained to Ms J that they had not placed any blocks on her account and
advised her to use a different browser or to use their mobile application if she has a
smartphone. TSB said that they were aware that some of their customers were still having
issues logging on and that these were intermittent. TSB apologised and credited Ms J with
another £50 to her account.
Ms J brought her complaint to our service. She said that all connections which automatically
disclose her Internet Protocol (IP) address fail to allow access to her login page. Ms J sent
our service screenshots from several internet browser companies showing errors accessing
TSBs internet log in webpage, including one which had the error
DNS_PROBE_FINISHED_NXDOMAIN. Ms J said that she had also now been blocked from
accessing her TSB online account, via the only browser that worked by protecting her
identification since notifying our service of this. She is able to access her accounts through
her mobile phone but has issues connecting to the log in page using a computer or laptop.
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. He said that although it wasnt her preferred
method, Ms J was still able to access her accounts online via her mobile phone. He also
explained that we dont have the powers to tell a business to change their procedures and
processes or to install a new Information Technology system. Our investigator thought that
the total of compensation TSB credited to her account was fair for the issues shes faced.
Our investigator acknowledged that Ms J recently told us that she now had issues logging in
even though she was inputting the correct information. Ms J said that her login failed
because of errors made by TSBs representative when she was assisting Ms J with the login
issue. But we are unable to look into this particular issue. This is because as per the rules
applicable, we need to allow the business to look into and investigate a complaint or concern
raised first, so that they can provide Ms J with their response. Ms J also told us that she
spoke to a TSB staff member who promised her a call back from TSBs technical team,
however, she did not get a call back from them. Ms J asked for an Ombudsman to review
her complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has made a number of points to both TSB and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
As our investigator has previously explained to Ms J, Ill not be able to look into certain
recent events which have happened, such as the information the call handler told her which
blocked her logging into her account - as I can only look into the merits of the complaint Ms J
originally brought to our service. I am unable to look into her comments regarding being
promised a call back by TSBs technical team in September 2021 for this reason also. Ms J
will need to make a separate complaint to TSB regarding these issues if she wishes to do
so.
Both parties disagree on what is causing the errors here. So I need to decide what I think is
likely to have happened on the basis of the evidence I have available to me. Where I dont
agree with a party, this isnt because I dont believe what they have said, its just that I have
based my decision on the balance of probabilities of whats happened here.
Im persuaded that the most likely reason that Ms J is unable to access her account using a
computer or a laptop is the settings of the computer itself. I know the strength of feeling that
Ms J has regarding this and she has completed the actions that shes been instructed to do
previously, such as use supported internet browsers which are compatible with TSBs
webpage and clear her browsing history etc. But Im persuaded this is the most likely reason
and Ill explain why.
One of the error messages Ms J received from an internet browser on her computer the
same internet browser as TSB say she is able to use successfully on her mobile phone, has
an error message of DNS_PROBE_FINISHED_NXDOMAIN. This suggests that there is an
error with the domain name server. The various error messages she has received from the
different internet browser companies recommend that she runs her network diagnostics 
this also suggests that the issue may lie with a computer she is using, if she may be able to
fix the problem using a diagnostics tool.
My understanding is that Ms J does not get any of these error messages on her mobile
phone from the browser she uses for her online banking as she has been able to log on
successfully using this method, this also suggests that it is likely her computer/laptop
settings or software which is causing the issue. Although she has cleared her browsing
history and has used compatible internet browsers with TSBs webpage, this alone wont
resolve the problem.
TSB have invited Ms J into a branch to try logging on to her internet banking using their
equipment. Im persuaded that it would be highly likely she could log onto her internet
banking by doing this. While it wont be practical to do this every time she wants to log
online, I do think that its likely she will be able to log in using a different computer and this
will evidence that its the software or settings on her computer which is preventing her fromaccessing her accounts by this method.
I say this because it is likely that Ms J would be logging onto the website on her mobile
phone the same way that she would do on her computer/laptop. So Im persuaded that the
only difference here may be that her mobile phone doesnt have the same security settings
as her computer/laptop. So I think that it is the security settings of the computer that are
causing her problems and that these security settings and software arent compatible with
TSBs website.
Ive considered what TSB have said, about how they believe the issue is to do with Ms J
using a VPN and as she is unlikely to use a VPN for her phone then this is what is
preventing her from accessing her details on a computer/laptop. But Im not persuaded that
a VPN has anything to do with the website issues and Ill explain why.
Ms J has previously said that she was able to use the VPN with an internet browser to
access her online account until she was unable to do so. So Im not persuaded that the VPN
would allow/prevent her to access her online account by itself or she would have been
unlikely to have been able to access her online account through this method previously.
Ive also considered what TSB have said about how they had a known issue previously
regarding their customers using a specific internet browser. Because of this they paid her a
total of £90 compensation. As TSB believed she may have been affected by this. But Im not
persuaded that this is the reason that Ms J has problems accessing her online accounts via
a computer or laptop either. I say this because Ms J has proved that she has issues with
several browsers as opposed to the one which TSB previously had problems with. TSB has
also confirmed that this issue has now been fixed and they would have had multiple reports
from other customers if there was an issue with their servers, which they havent. So I dont
think that Ms J was affected by the known issue as if this was the reason affecting her, she
would have access to her accounts online now using a computer.
Im also not persuaded that TSB have blocked any of the browsers she has tried to access
her account. I say this as if TSB were to block access to her account for a legitimate reason
then they would not need to block an internet browser itself. They would be able to simply
disable her online access to her account. But as Ms J can access her account via her phone,
even if this is not her preferred method, then I dont believe that TSB have placed any blocks
or would even be able to place any blocks on her internet browsers themselves. TSB have
confirmed that there are no blocks on her account and they say that this is proved by Ms J
being able to use an internet browser on her phone to access her accounts online.
So while the errors are blocking her access to her online account, using a computer/laptop.
Im satisfied that this isnt due to a TSB error for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows
I do not intend to ask TSB to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. TSB said they had no further points to add. Ms J did not respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman