DRN-4195769
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society about his 
current account. 
What happened
In April 2023, Mr M upgraded his Nationwide current account shortly before he went on an 
overseas trip. 
Whilst abroad, Mr Ms debit card stopped working. Mr M says he was left without money 
because he didnt have any other cards with him overseas. He told us hed had a medical 
emergency whilst abroad. He said his insurer had agreed to fund a business class flight 
home for him, but this would not be implemented unless Mr M paid for an economy class 
ticket first. Mr M says he could not access his funds to pay for a ticket. 
Upon contacting Nationwide for help, Mr M said the call handlers lacked empathy and did 
not offer any practical solutions. He thought Nationwide should reimburse him for his call 
costs to Nationwide and the calls he made to friends to arrange help. Mr M said these calls 
had cost him more than £600. 
In response, Nationwide said that when Mr M had upgraded his account, a new card had to 
be ordered and the old card was stopped after 21 days. It said this would have been made 
clear to Mr M during the upgrade process. Nationwide offered to refund the cost of two calls 
which Mr M said amounted £306.78. Nationwide agreed to pay that amount.  
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide needed to pay anything more to Mr M. Mr M 
disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out below, I do not uphold this complaint.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Nationwide made it clear to Mr M that his card 
would stop when he upgraded his account. 
Nationwide provided evidence of the process Mr M would have gone through during the 
account upgrade. I can see that at step three of that process, Mr M would have most likely 
been presented with a large illustration of a Nationwide card. There would have also most 
likely been a large heading saying Your card with text underneath stating Well send you a 
new card in 7 to 10 working days, but youll still be able to use your old card for up to 21 
days. 
Looking at the information Nationwide provided, I dont think Mr M would have been able to 
complete the application to upgrade the account without seeing this prominent information. I 
say this because if this stage had not been reached, he wouldnt have progressed to the 
page to accept the terms and conditions. I can see that once Mr M had pressed the 
complete button for his application, the message about getting the new card would have 
been repeated. 
I know Mr M is adamant he was not told his existing card would stop, but Im satisfied 
information telling him about this would have most likely been prominently displayed. I think 
it would have been clear that he would have only been able to use his existing card for 21 
days after the account upgrade. I cant say Nationwide did anything wrong here. 
Mr M says he thought Nationwide should refund the cost of his calls. He provided a 
document which he says shows itemised calls from his mobile phone provider abroad. There 
are purportedly some calls to Nationwide and calls to other UK mobile numbers. Mr M says 
these further calls were to friends in the UK after Nationwide told him to call them for help if 
he had no access to funds.  
Nationwide agreed to reimburse the ostensible cost of two calls Mr M made to Nationwide 
after his first call was disconnected. I dont require Nationwide to make any further payment 
to Mr M. Thats because the need to make any of these calls did not arise from an error 
made by Nationwide. 
Mr M says Nationwides call handlers lacked empathy and did not offer any practical 
solutions. From the calls I have heard, Im satisfied the call handlers made several enquiries 
as to how they could help Mr M, but he said none of the proposed solutions were workable. 
In any event, as the root cause of Mr Ms difficulties was not Nationwide, I dont think it would 
be fair to expect it to do any more than it did.  
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above, I 
dont uphold this complaint and Nationwide does not have to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman