DRN-3019541
The complaint
Mr A complains about systems problems that stopped him making a payment from his 
Santander UK Plc bank account. 
What happened
In May 2021 Santander experienced a systems problem that meant Mr A wasnt able to 
complete a purchase with an online retailer. A payment for £18.49 didnt go through and was 
pending in Mr As account for around a week. 
Mr A complained to Santander and it apologised that its systems problems had impacted his 
purchase. Mr A has said the problem meant he didnt have access to funds in his account for 
two to three days. Santander paid Mr A £75 to apologise. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A 
asked to appeal and said he had been without his account for one day. Mr A said the 
situation had caused him stress. As Mr A didnt accept, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Mr A is that his payment didnt go through. I understand hes regular 
shopper and that he intended to purchase a specific item. Ive taken everything Mr A has told 
us about the impact of the systems problem on him. Having done so, I think the £75 
Santander has already paid him is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset Mr A experienced 
due to the payment systems problem. I appreciate there was a short period where £18.49 
wasnt available and that Mr A wasnt sure what had happened. But Im satisfied £75 is takes 
Mr As experiences into account and is fair in all the circumstances. 
As Im satisfied Santander has paid a fair level of compensation in this case, Im not telling it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
