DRN-3168182
The complaint
Mrs M says The Private Office Limited (TPO) failed to act on her instruction and in 
consequence shes suffered financial loss. 
What happened
In December 2019 TPO recommended that Mrs M switch SIPP providers. Investment 
recommendations to rebalance the SIPP portfolio were also made. Mrs M accepted the 
recommendations and the migration process began. 
In early 2020 the outbreak of the pandemic triggered falls in the financial markets. Mrs M 
says she instructed TPO on 28 February 2020 that she wanted to hold her SIPP fund in 
cash. TPO says, although there were discussions about the possibility of holding in cash 
once funds were received, Mrs M didnt give any written instruction. Mrs M raised a number 
of points but TPO didnt uphold her complaint and Mrs M referred it to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
She said any instruction to remain in cash needed to be in writing. Mrs M had said she didnt 
know that. Shed said the adviser knew she was concerned about the impact of market 
fluctuations on the value of her fund and he shouldve told her earlier that a request to hold 
in cash needed to be made in writing. The investigator thought the adviser wouldve 
assumed, as Mrs M had been provided with TPOs terms of business, that shed have been 
aware of the need to provide written instructions. Mrs Ms email of 9 March 2020 was the 
only instruction TPO received expressly confirming Mrs M wanted to move to a cash position 
and TPO had acted on that without delay.
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view. She said TPO shouldnt hide behind their terms 
of business and had a duty of care to her. The adviser knew she wanted to be in cash and 
he didnt contact her when he discovered her SIPP had automatically been reinvested. 
Instead, he waited for her to find out via the new portal which she didnt have access to until 
9 March 2020.
Mrs M added that shed spoken to and emailed the adviser about not wanting to re-enter the 
markets until she gave the go ahead. She said shed trusted the adviser and she was paying 
substantial fees for her investments to be managed. Given the state of the markets on 28 
February 2020 and her very vocal concerns about her investments which she was unable to 
track herself, the adviser shouldve reminded her than any request should be made in writing 
 after the meeting in March 2020 when it was agreed that shed liquidate her portfolio, hed 
called her to remind her that any request had to be in writing. 
Mrs M said she wasnt advised that the investment was automatically reinvested until after 
shed chased three times to get access via the new app. She had no knowledge of the 
whereabouts of her investment. When she finally spoke to the adviser on 12 March 2020, he 
admitted he hadnt known that the funds would be automatically reinvested. 
Mrs M suggested the fundamental questions were:
Why the adviser hadnt contacted her when he found out her funds were no longer in 
cash;
Why shed had to ask three times for access to the new portal;
Why, when the adviser visited her in March 2020, hed said she might wish to make a 
complaint if he didnt think TPO had acted unfairly;
Why she hadnt been advised that, if she liquidated the final part of her portfolio, 
shed suffer a reduction of another £20,000 to £30,000 due to lack of market appetite 
for the remaining investments. 
Mrs M asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld. I understand Mrs M will be disappointed with that and Ive set out below why Ive 
reached that view. 
I think its clear that Mrs M was (understandably) concerned about market falls in February 
2020. Her email of 28 February 2020 referred to an exchange earlier that week but Mrs M 
said shed appreciate a chat as she was reluctant to go back into the markets. She queried 
if it was worth staying in cash until things had bottomed out. I understand that Mrs M had a 
telephone call with the adviser that day. Ideally Id have liked to have been able to listen to 
that call. But, unfortunately no call recording is available. So Ive had to decide what I think is 
likely to have been the outcome of that conversation. 
If Mrs M have a firm (verbal) instruction during the call that she wanted to hold all her SIPP 
assets in cash, then I think the adviser shouldve reminded her that shed need to put that in 
writing. I dont see any reason to think the adviser wouldnt have done that, particular as it 
seems he did remind Mrs M during a later call in March 2020 that she needed to confirm her 
instructions in writing. 
So I tend to think Mrs M didnt say during the call that shed made a firm decision and she 
wanted to hold in cash. If she didnt give a firm instruction then there cant be any suggestion 
that TPO failed to act on it. I think its more likely that the situation with the markets  and 
Mrs Ms nervousness - was discussed, along with the risks and benefits of holding in cash. 
But I dont think, during the call, Mrs M said she definitely wanted all of her SIPP fund to be 
held in cash.  
I think thats borne out by the email she sent on 6 March 2020 in which she asked for the 
advisers thoughts as to whether we should hold in cash for a short while. I think, if Mrs M 
had previously given an instruction that she wanted to be in cash, that wouldve been 
reflected in the later email. Instead that email is consistent with Mrs M having been thinking 
about what she should do and having consulted with the adviser earlier but not having 
reached a settled decision and given a firm (oral) instruction earlier. 
But it seems that, after having been considering things for a while, Mrs M then decided shed 
be happier moving to cash and she emailed the adviser to that effect on 9 March 2020. And 
TPO acted on that instruction. Mrs M has also referred to a lack of clarity in advice provided on 28 February 2020. Again, 
as theres no call recording, its unclear exactly what was said. 
But TPO had very recently provided advice in connection with the switch to a new SIPP 
provider, including recommendations as to how Mrs Ms portfolio should be invested. I dont 
think it was wrong to maintain that those recommendations were suitable and so Mrs M 
should continue as planned.  
To put that another way, I dont see the adviser shouldve recommended that Mrs M hold in 
cash, although Mrs M was free to come to that conclusion herself and in view of the markets 
at the time and her nervousness about remaining invested. But generally advice that may 
involve trying to time the markets is problematic. 
If Mrs M had given an instruction to hold in cash on 28 February 2020 that mightve been 
difficult to implement immediately, given that the transfer process was on going and the 
trades needed to be settled first. So it might be that Mrs M wouldnt have been able to have 
disinvested any earlier anyway. But I mention that largely in passing as I cant say Im 
satisfied Mrs M did give a firm instruction on 28 February 2020 that she wanted her SIPP 
fund to be held in cash. 
Ive also considered the questions Mrs M has raised. First, Im not sure I fully follow what she 
says about the adviser not having contacted her about her funds not being held in cash. I 
think the migration process was covered in the suitability report. It said it would be a cash 
transfer  the existing assets would be sold prior to transfer and when TPO received the 
funds theyd be invested in line with the recommended (rebalanced) portfolio. 
TPO says the process to invest funds had already commenced and the sell down of assets 
couldnt be undertaken until all trades had settled. After that had been completed, the 
instruction was transacted with a cash position assumed on 17 March 2020. If Mrs M didnt 
give an instruction to hold in cash until 9 March 2020 I dont see there was any unreasonable 
delay.
I note Mrs Ms disappointment that she didnt get access to the new online portal as soon as 
shed have liked. But I cant see that any promises were given as to timing. 
I dont think any suggestion by the adviser that Mrs M may want to make a complaint is 
necessarily evidence that the adviser thought something had gone wrong. When faced with 
a disappointed customer I can understand why an adviser might suggest a complaint be 
made. Even if the complaint isnt upheld the consumer might be reassured by the fact that 
someone else, usually in senior position, has looked into whats happened.  
Mrs M is also concerned about further losses to her portfolio when she disinvested. The 
timing may have worked against Mrs M. But I dont see that TPO is responsible for losses 
she sustained because of falls in the value of her investments which, in effect, she 
crystallised by selling to hold in cash. And which losses, if she remained out of the markets, 
werent made up when the markets recovered later in 2020. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 Lesley Stead
Ombudsman