DRN-2943590
The complaint
Mr A complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not honoured a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr A has been represented in his complaint by his wife. When I refer to anything said or 
done by Mr A then this should be taken to include anything said or done by his wife too.
What happened
Mr A made two payments on his Halifax credit card in November 2019, to a used car 
dealership.
The payments had been made towards the purchase of a used small hatchback costing 
£6,750. Mr A says the car was advertised as having cruise control but upon bringing it home 
it became clear that it did not. He says he complained to the dealer about this, who denied 
advertising the car with cruise control and then stopped responding to communication.
Mr A contacted Halifax for assistance because hed paid on his credit card. He wanted 
£553.27 which was the amount of money it would cost to have the cruise control retrofitted to 
the car. The bank sent Mr A several requests for information, which he found frustrating 
because he had already sent in the relevant documents. In the end Halifax said it couldnt 
help. It said that it couldnt dispute the transaction via the MasterCard regulations because in 
order to do so the car would need to have been returned to the dealer. It also said it wouldnt 
accept a claim under section 75 of the CCA because it didnt think there was a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This was because the company Mr A had paid 
on his credit card was not the same company that had supplied the car. Halifax did 
recognise however that it had kept asking Mr A for information he had already sent, and 
offered £100 compensation for this. Mr A was dissatisfied with this response. He said he had 
paid the same company, and referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She concluded Halifax had been right in 
what it had said about being unable to dispute the transaction, and it had also been right to 
conclude there wasnt a valid DCS agreement, but for the wrong reasons. She agreed with 
Mr A that the company hed paid was the same company which supplied the car. But she 
also concluded it hadnt been Mr A who had bought the car, it had been his daughter (M). 
Mr A had only paid for it, and didnt have a contract with the dealership himself. This meant 
there wasnt a DCS agreement which would allow Mr A to make a section 75 claim against 
Halifax.
Mr A disagreed. He said the car had been a family purchase and it was not just for his 
daughter. No agreement could be reached and the case has now been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have split my decision into three sections for ease of reading and to better reflect the 
different aspects of the complaint.
The Dispute/Chargeback
Mr A hasnt disagreed specifically with our investigators conclusions regarding whether or 
not Halifax could or should have raised a dispute via the MasterCard dispute resolution 
process (usually referred to as chargeback). Ive therefore not focused on this aspect of the 
complaint in my decision, but I have nevertheless considered it. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by our investigator. 
Chargebacks are subject to the rules set by the card schemes. Ive consulted the rules and 
in order to pursue a dispute it appears Halifax would have needed to have been satisfied 
that the car had been returned to the dealer or made available for them to collect. Mr A 
wasnt looking to return the car, and a chargeback would also not have been able to claim 
out of pocket expenses (e.g. the cost of the cruise control), so in my view it wasnt a suitable 
avenue for the resolution of Mr As problem. Overall, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly by 
not pursuing it further. I will now turn to the main point of dispute, which is the matter of the 
section 75 claim.
The Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA provides a degree of protection to consumers who use a credit card 
to purchase goods or services. So long as certain technical conditions are met, it allows a 
consumer to claim against their credit card company for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
In this case, our investigator has said one of the technical conditions have not been met  
the need for there to be a DCS agreement. The most straightforward way of explaining this 
is to say that the credit card account holder needs to have a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the company he or she has paid using their credit card.
The problem here is that there is some uncertainty over who it is who would have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the car dealership. If the person who has the 
claim is not the account holder (Mr A), then he cannot bring a claim against Halifax under 
section 75 of the CCA.
Our investigator thought it was M who had a contract for the purchase of the car with the 
dealership, and not Mr A, and it would therefore be M who would have a claim against the 
dealership. She noted that the sales invoice was in Ms name, and so was the logbook. She 
also highlighted that the cruise control had been a requirement of M, to accommodate her 
particular mobility needs. It also appeared that the car had been bought so M could use it to 
commute to university. Things hadnt quite worked out that way, and the car had been used 
by Mr A as well at times, but the original intention had been for M to use it as her own car.
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with our investigator that M bought the car from 
the dealership and would be the person who has a claim against it for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Evidence which suggests M was the purchaser includes the fact that the 
sales paperwork and the logbook are in her name. I note also that the complaint to the 
dealership, albeit made by Ms parents, occurred after M had inspected the car and 
discovered it lacked the cruise control she had wanted. And in correspondence with Halifax, 
Ms parents referred to our daughters car and the fact she would be using it to commute to 
university.Im not convinced by Mr As argument that this was a family purchase in the sense he was a 
party to the contract of sale with the dealership. I think it was a family purchase in the sense 
that he and his wife were financially supporting their daughter to buy a car and, as in many 
cases where there is more than one car in a household, I am sure they also envisaged using 
the car themselves from time to time. I think they were also involved in the process of buying 
the car, in an advisory capacity. 
But ultimately, I think M was the only contracting party with the dealership. This means she 
is the person who would have a claim against the dealership, not Mr A, for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. And because of this, my view is that Mr A would be unable to 
make a claim against Halifax under section 75 of the CCA in respect of the missing cruise 
control.
Ive thought about the other points Mr A has made, such as the car being expensive for a 
non-family purchase, and the paperwork having been in Ms name potentially for the sake of 
convenience, but these dont change my analysis of the purchase. It follows that I conclude 
Halifax did not treat Mr A unfairly by declining his section 75 claim, albeit it quoted the wrong 
reasons when doing so. 
Customer Service
Halifax offered Mr A £100 in respect of customer service failings after he had asked for 
assistance with the disputed transactions. In particular, the bank accepted it had repeatedly 
asked Mr A for the same or similar information. Being asked for information you have 
already sent is frustrating, especially if it happens more than once, and I think it was fair of 
Halifax to make an offer of £100 in respect of this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman