DRN-2813246
The complaint
Ms D complains that Paypal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (Paypal) declined a refund for a 
purchase shed returned to the seller.
What happened
 The circumstances of this complaint are straightforward and well known to both parties, so 
Ive only provided a brief summary here.
In July 2020 Ms D made an online purchase and paid for it via Paypal. The goods 
were not as described, and Ms D contacted the seller.
In an email exchange the seller apologised and requested that Ms D return the goods 
and provided an address for the return.
Ms D returned the goods and has provided proof of delivery to the returns address 
provided by the seller. 
The seller didnt provide a refund so Ms D approached Paypal.
Paypal requested that Ms D return the goods to the seller at her own expense for a 
full refund. 
Ms D explained shed already returned the goods to the seller and Paypal advised 
that as shed not returned them to the address it specified it wouldnt refund the 
purchase price.
Our investigator acknowledged that Ms D hadnt returned the goods to the address 
Paypal specified in line with its user agreement. But felt that Paypal hadnt acted 
fairly and reasonably in this case. He said Ms D had evidenced the return to the 
address specified by the seller and it wasnt fair that Ms D had neither the goods or a 
refund.
The investigator said Paypal should refund the cost of the goods and pay interest.
Paypal asked that an ombudsman decide the case 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and largely for the same reasons.
The buyers protection section of Paypals user agreement is designed to help buyers 
recover their money from sellers who deliver goods which are "significantly not as 
described". 
I can see that Ms D contacted the seller when she received the goods which she says were 
not as described. And Ive seen that Paypal encourage contact to be made with the seller to 
resolve issues.
Ms D used the same email address to query how to return the goods as shed used when 
making the purchase, so its not unreasonable for her to follow the sellers instructions for the 
return. Ive seen ongoing email exchanges with the seller and at no point is it disputed the 
goods were not returned. And Ive seen evidence they were returned before Paypal advised 
Ms D of a different returns address. So Im satisfied the goods were returned to the seller. 
And, in the circumstances of this case I dont think its reasonable that Paypal should decline 
the refund simply because Ms D didnt return the goods to the address Paypal specified in 
line with its user agreement.
Putting things right
Paypal should issue a refund for the goods returned and pay interest at 8% simple. 
My final decision
 For the reasons above Im upholding this complaint and require Paypal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to issue a refund for the goods returned. And pay 8% simple interest from the point it 
declined the refund to the date the payment is issued.
If Paypal considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give Ms D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman