DRN-1924934
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited (Northridge) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
Mr M tells us that towards the end of September 2019 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer 
Ill refer to as DJ. He says that after a couple of weeks a whistling noise was heard. And 
that hes now been advised that this is due to an issue with the turbo. And that it should be 
replaced. Mr M states that hes supplied an independent inspection report compiled by a 
company Ill refer to as DK. And that this had found the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. He said hed tried to exercise the short term right to reject as 
contained in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Northridge told us the vehicle had been examined by a manufacturers agent, a company Ill 
call B, and was found to be without fault. It said that DKs inspection was a visual 
inspection and its engineer hadnt carried out an inspection of the turbo. It (Northridge) 
stated that it didnt think Mr M should be permitted to reject the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Northridge 
had advised Mr M to get an independent inspection carried out. And that Mr M had provided 
a copy of DKs report which had contained its opinion that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. As Mr M had sought to reject the vehicle within the period of 
the short term right to reject, he thought Northridge shouldve accepted this.
Northridge didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can understand that Mr M would be concerned to see that shortly after he acquired it, the 
vehicle was displaying symptoms which suggested if might require an expensive repair in 
the form of a replacement turbo. 
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Northridge supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Mr Ms complaint is that the vehicle he acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality. And that as he 
made the request to reject it within the 30 day period allowed in the CRA for the short term 
right to reject to be exercised, Northridge should have accepted this.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In its reply to the investigators view, Northridge has provided a copy of the response it 
received from DJ. And which Ive inferred was drafted by a solicitor who was instructed by 
DJ following the complaint. Its fair to characterise this as going into significant detail 
regarding the provisions of the CRA.
Its important that I clarify that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. 
The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) issued by the Financial Conduct Authority set out the 
basis on which an ombudsman should determine a complaint.
DISP 3.6.1 reads:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 reads:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR). And Ive taken this into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im required to reach the same decision as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mr M brought a claim for breach of contract.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability. Here the vehicle was around five and a half years old with 39,638 miles recorded.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply they didnt do so on that date. This presumption applies unless 
its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.The CPUTR requires the consumer to be given sufficient information prior to entering an 
agreement to allow an informed decision to be made about whether to acquire the goods.
Theres been a lot of information supplied by the parties. This includes details of several 
inspections of this vehicle. Its fair to say that the inspections varied in the depth to which the 
examination was carried out as well as the conclusions. Which in part were contradictory.
I acknowledge there was a health check carried out by a company Ill call H, which found 
no faults. Ive also seen a brief note on an invoice from a company Ill call SM indicating a 
new turbo was required.
But Ill concentrate on the findings of B (manufacturers agent) and DK as I think their 
findings are based on a closer examination of the vehicle. And both give more details of the 
reasons for their conclusions.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
DKs engineer was very experienced and has prepared his report and attached a statement 
of truth. Ive inferred that Bs engineer - being employed to examine the manufacturers 
vehicles - also has a high level of training and expertise.
Theres clearly a dispute as to whether the whistling noise is symptomatic of a fault with the 
turbo or merely a characteristic of the vehicle which may arise as the vehicle becomes older. 
B has stated there are no faults. But it did suggest the turbo should be replaced. Apparently 
on the basis that when compared to another similar vehicle the other vehicle didnt exhibit 
the same noise.
DK indicated the noise got louder as the revs increased. And concluded that vehicle wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. It said this was probably due to a failing turbo charger 
which should be replaced.
One of the few areas of agreement is that the vehicle did exhibit a whistling noise. Although 
Ive been told that the Mr M was aware of this at the time of supply, I cant see theres any 
independent confirmation of this. Nor is it recorded on the finance agreement that the vehicle 
was sold with the customers knowledge of this. It seems to me that if a vehicle has unusual 
characteristics which might (as found by DK) otherwise suggest the turbo charger was failing 
then that is something that shouldve been brought specifically to the attention of the 
customer and recorded as such. That would be in line with the requirements of the CPUTR.
Ive taken into account that DJ offered to supply a replacement turbo. Whilst this was 
expressed as a gesture of goodwill, I think its unlikely a business would agree to replace 
such an expensive item unless it thought this was probably going to prove necessary sooner 
rather than later.
On a balance of probabilities, I think theres sufficient information to show that the vehicle 
didnt conform to contract when supplied. As the conclusions of the experts were 
contradictory it cannot be said that Northridge  as is required by the CRA - has shown the 
vehicle did conform to contract at that time.
Mr M exercised the short term right to reject the vehicle within the required period and I think 
he was entitled to do so. Accordingly, Im upholding this complaint.Mr M has provided information and a photo image of the vehicles mileage at 15 October 
2020. This shows the odometer reading as 40,486 miles. The vehicle has only covered 848 
since supply which is typically about one months average use. And Mr M has said it has 
remained largely unused since he reported the fault. The odometer reading appears to 
confirm this. I think it would be fair and reasonable that he pays one monthly payment to 
reflect fair use.
.
Putting things right
Northridge should now take the following action in full and final settlement of the complaint.
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay;
2. Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr M;
3. Refund Mr Ms cash deposit of £3,958;
4. Refund all monthly payments made other than for one month which Northridge may 
retain for fair use;
5. Refund cost of DKs report (if not already repaid) upon proof of payment;
6. Arrange for the details of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ms credit record.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be add to any sums arising from items 3,4 
and 5 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding the complaint.
I now require N.I.I.B. Group Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman