DRN-2809954
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) settled a
claim made on her motor insurance policy following a collision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 26 April 2021. I gave both parties until the 
10 May 2021 to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider. I have 
copied my provisional decision below  and it forms part of this final decision.
Ms W was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle that she says wasnt her fault. Ms
W says that she slowed down to turn right, put on her indicator, and the car behind her sped
past her on her right side as she was turning right. This resulted in Ms W colliding into the
side of the third-party vehicle.
Advantage initially wrote to Ms W to say that it intended to settle the claim as 50/50 split
liability. But it later made the decision to settle the claim as full liability to Ms W.
Ms W is unhappy with this decision as she maintains that she wasnt at fault for the collision
 she has provided Advantage with CCTV footage that she says supports this. Ms W is also
unhappy that Advantage didnt communicate its decision to hold her liable, and she only
found this out once shes called them.
Ms W tells us that she has lost out on the £295 excess fee she had to pay, her no claims
discount and the higher price shell need to pay for a new insurance policy. To put things
right, Ms W would like Advantage to change the liability outcome, refund her excess and
reinstate her no claims discount.
Advantage spoke to Ms W on the phone to say why it thought that its decision to hold her
liable for the collision was fair. But it also apologised for the lack of updates it provided her
with during the claims process.
Our investigator looked into things too. They found Advantage had fairly investigated the
claim when coming to its decision to hold Ms W liable. But they thought that Ms W should be
awarded £50 for the trouble and upset the lack of communication had caused.
Advantage didnt agree that it should pay the £50. It said that while it could have done better
in terms of how it communicated with Ms W, this hadnt impacted her enough to warrant
compensation. Because Advantage didnt agree, the complaint has now been passed to me
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
Ms Ws complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a
court of law. What Im deciding is whether Advantage has acted in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Advantage can take over the settlement of the
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is
prepared to defend Ms W if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be expensive,
and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved and the
likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean Advantage makes a
decision Ms W disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Ms Ws frustration with being held liable for a collision she says wasnt her
fault. While I cant make a decision as to who was liable for the collision, I have looked to
see if Advantage have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has
made a reasonable assessment of the claim.
Ms W initially told Advantage she indicated and was turning right when the third-party vehicle
passed her on the right and the collision happened. But she later told Advantage that she
was performing a U-Turn. The other party says that Ms W indicated left and then started to
pull left  because of this, the third-party passed her on the right, as Ms W turned  which is
when the collision happened. It isnt unusual for there to be a difference in what both parties
say happened. But Advantage need to ensure that it uses all of the other evidence available
to come to a fair outcome.
The main evidence Advantage has used in deciding the claim appears to be the CCTV
footage provided to it by Ms W. Ive also looked at the footage. From the angle it has been
taken, its difficult to see who is at fault for the collision. It isnt clear if Ms W was indicating or
not, but the footage does suggest that she moved to the left of the road before turning 
which is consistent with what she told Advantage about making a U-Turn.
Advantage has said that it doesnt think that Ms W followed the Highway Code by checking
her mirrors properly before making the manoeuvre. Its said that the CCTV footage shows
the collision with the third party to be within a matter of seconds of the manoeuvre being
performed. And that this shows that the third party would have been in close enough
proximity for Ms W to see them in either her rear view or side view mirror had the mirrors
been checked correctly. I dont find what Advantage has said here to be unreasonable.
Taking everything into account, in reality, the best outcome for Ms W in this case would have
been 50/50 split liability. But because Ms W was performing a manoeuvre in the road, and
the responsibility was on her to check that it was safe to make such a manoeuvre before
doing so, I think it would have been difficult for Advantage to defend Ms W in court if it came
to it. And so, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Advantage to hold Ms W liable for
the collision. And so, I wont be upholding this part of Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W complained that Advantage didnt communicate the final outcome of her claim to her
and she only found out shed been held liable when she chased it up a few weeks later. I can
see Advantage sent Ms W a letter on 3 June 2020  saying that there wasnt enough
evidence to hold either party responsible and so they were going to settle the claim as 50/50
split liability. And I can see that Advantage didnt proactively update her when it made its
decision to hold her liable. I can understand that this must have been frustrating for Ms W.
Advantage has apologised for not letting her know the final outcome  and I think this is
enough to settle the complaint.
I say this because the change in decision wouldnt have had an impact on Ms Ws position.
Either claim outcome would still have been recorded as a fault against Ms W, she would stillhave needed to pay her excess, her no claims discount would have been affected, and the
cost of her premiums would likely to be affected too. So, while I agree that Advantage could
have done more, I dont think its had a big impact on Ms W. And so I think the apology it has
already made to her over the phone is enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision and so Ive assumed neither party has 
anything further theyd like me to consider. 
Because of this I dont see any reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision, 
and so it is my final decision to not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman