DRN-3005120
The complaint
Ms H complains that Oplo PL Ltd (trading at the time as 1st Stop Personal Loans) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms H was given a loan by Oplo in March 2019. She borrowed £5,500 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Ms H repaid the loan far earlier than planned, in 
July 2019.
Ms Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Oplo 
had been wrong to give the loan to Ms H. So she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Ms H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Ms Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Oplo gave this loan to Ms H required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms H. In practice this 
meant that Oplo had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Ms H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Ms H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Oplo did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Ms H.
Oplo gathered some information from Ms H before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details 
of her income, and then used some industry statistical data to estimate her normal 
expenditure. And it checked her credit file to see how much she was paying to other 
creditors, and how she had managed credit in the past.
Ms H was entering into a significant commitment with Oplo. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that Oplo wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Hs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that Oplos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of Oplos checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
As Ive said earlier, Oplo used some industry data to estimate Ms Hs normal living costs. 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Oplo should have concluded that Ms Hs 
circumstances were so different to the norm that taking this approach would have been 
unreasonable. Based on what Ms H said about her income, what Oplo saw Ms H was paying 
to other creditors, and the estimate it derived of her expenditure, I think it was reasonable for 
Oplo to conclude that Ms H would be able to afford the repayments on the loan.
The results of the credit check showed that Ms H had faced some problems managing her 
money in the past. It showed that she had defaulted on two accounts in 2014, although she 
later cleared those balances in 2017. Experience often shows that consumers who have 
faced problems managing their money in the past are more likely to experience similar 
problems in the future. So I think Ms Hs past problems should have caused some concerns 
to Oplo.But Ms Hs more recent credit history showed no similar problems. All of her active accounts 
appeared to be managed well with repayments being made on time. Ms H had taken 
additional credit just a few months before asking for this loan, but I can see that Oplo 
discussed the reasons for those loans with Ms H. I think Oplo was entitled to rely on the 
reasonable explanations that Ms H provided. And although one of Ms Hs credit card 
accounts had been persistently at, or even just above, the agreed £1,000 limit for almost two 
years, she told Oplo that she intended to use part of the loan to repay that balance. Again, 
I think it was fair for Oplo to rely on what Ms H said, and so discount that outstanding 
balance from its calculations of Ms Hs commitments.
On balance I dont think the results of Oplos checks should have led the lender to dig 
deeper into Ms Hs finances. I accept what Ms H says  that further checks would have 
shown she continued to face problems managing her money. But those problems werent 
apparent from what I consider to be proportionate checks, or from the information and 
explanations that Ms H provided about her finances. So whilst I understand that my decision 
will be disappointing for Ms H, I dont think Oplo was wrong to give this loan to her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oplo PL Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman