DRN-3449417
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund all of the money he lost after falling
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr A was looking for vehicle insurance online. He was unemployed but held a private hire
licence, so wanted to get back on his feet by working as a taxi driver.
Mr A explains that he had been contacting brokers and insurance companies to try and find
the best deal. He found a broker through Instagram. The profile said it could save drivers up
to 40% and its posts claimed to have many happy customers.
Mr A started interacting with the broker, initially through messages on the Instagram
platform, but he says they also spoke on the phone. The broker came back with a quote that
Mr A wanted to go ahead with. Unfortunately, Mr A wasnt speaking with a genuine
insurance broker, he was really interacting with a fraudster.
Mr A told the fraudster the date he wanted the cover to start. The fraudster told Mr A that he
needed to fill in the payment form. Mr A was going to pay by card. He provided his card
details directly to the fraudster. The fraudster told Mr A that the payment was not going
through and asked him if hed got another card. Mr A provided the fraudster with the details
for another one of his cards. The fraudster told him that card wasnt working either. The
fraudster told Mr A that if he kept trying to pay it would block the quote and he would not be
able to get that price again. He told Mr A that he would send him his business account
details instead.
Mr A told the fraudster he thought it was strange that his card wasnt working and suggested
that the fraudster should pay first, then Mr A would transfer the funds to him instantly
afterwards to reimburse him.
Then Mr A contacted Monzo using its chat function. He explained that hed been trying to
make a payment for car insurance for the past day, but it hadnt been working. Monzo
checked his account and explained that it couldnt see any payment attempts had been
made. Mr A told Monzo that he was going to transfer the money into someone elses
account so they could pay it for him. The banks advisor asked Mr A to tell them how it goes.
Following the conversation, Mr A made a payment of £1,950 to the bank details the fraudster
had given him. The fraudster told him the payment had not been received. Mr A contacted
Monzo to follow things up. It explained that it can take up to a full day for a payment to be
credited and gave him a transaction number so that the recipient could track the payment
with their bank.
Mr A explained that he had also sent smaller payments of £1 and £0.01 but they had not
been received either. He contacted the fraudster to ask him to trace the funds from his end,
but they stopped responding. Mr A contacted Monzo again to ask for advice and it was
uncovered at that point that he had probably been the victim of a scam.
Monzo quickly tried to recover the money Mr A sent but was not successful. It then
considered whether it was responsible for refunding Mr A for his loss. It accepted that it
should have done more to help him when he spoke with the banks advisor on Monzo Chat.
But in its final response letter, it said that Mr A had not taken enough reasonable steps to
ensure he trusted the person he was sending money to. It offered to refund half of the
money that Mr A had lost. It also offered £40 compensation to acknowledge and apologise
for not questioning the legitimacy of the payment when Mr A had gotten in touch.
Mr A wanted Monzo to refund all of the money that hed lost and pay compensation for the
difficult mental and financial situation hed been left in. He explains that he would not have
made the payment at all if hed been given the correct support and advice from the bank. He
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. Initially
she said the scam could have been fully prevented if the bank had properly intervened when
Mr A had got in touch. Then she noted that whilst Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), it has agreed to
adhere to it. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are
victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator
didnt think any of those circumstances applied here.
Monzo had already recognised that it had not provided an effective warning when Mr A was
making the payment. But she did not think the bank had been able to establish that Mr A did
not have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to
pay, the payment was for genuine services and/or that the person he was transacting with
was legitimate. She thought Monzo should have fully reimbursed Mr As loss and
recommended that it settled the complaint by refunding the outstanding amount with interest
on the sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Mr A made the payment to the date
of settlement.
Monzo disagreed. It didnt think Mr A had met his standard of care. It said Instagram wasnt
a legitimate source of insurers. It didnt think Mr A had been under pressure to make the
payment and felt that some of the things hed said on Monzo Chat indicated that he was
wary about it before making it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
On 25 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to uphold 
this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I thought the action Monzo had already taken to put things 
right was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo
should have reimbursed Mr A in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr A from the possibility of
financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt
enough, in and of itself, for Mr A to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The
Code places a level of care on Mr A too.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully
reimburse Mr A under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed
exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the
circumstances of this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the
legitimacy of the transaction Mr A was making are enough to support its position that he
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he made.
I dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine services
and the person he transacted with was legitimate. I think Mr A should have had done more
than he did to question the deal and to satisfy himself that it was legitimate before making
the payment. As this is a different outcome to the one our Investigator reached, I will explain
why.
The type of insurance cover Mr A needed was specialist, so I can understand why he
wanted to shop around to find the best quote on the market. I accept that genuine insurers
and brokers do have a presence on social media so the fact that Mr A came across a broker
through this channel isnt, in and of itself, automatically indicative of fraud. But I think Mr A
should have questioned in his own mind why the dialogue continued on Instagram after the
introduction and why the broker was contacting him to discuss the quote and paymentarrangements fairly late at night. Some of the messages that Ive seen were exchanged
around half past midnight, which would be very unsociable hours for a legitimate broker to
be contacting a client. Ive also noted that the language the fraudster was using was not
professional.
I am not persuaded that Mr A took sufficient steps to assure himself that he was dealing with
a legitimate financial services company. Mr A has explained that he didnt know the person
he was speaking to and he did not know the brokerage, but he had checked the Instagram
account carefully by looking at positive comments left by other customers. He did not see
any evidence of his quote or any details of the proposed cover before making payment.
When the bank asked Mr A what steps he had taken to verify the recipient of funds, he said
they just promised me they wont do anything shady and I spoke to them on the phone too.
Ive considered the conversations Mr A had with the fraudster over Instagram. He told the
fraudster he was being quoted £3000/3200 for cover. The fraudster later responded to say:
I got you a quote for £1950 +£400 admin fee fully comp no box. Mr A told our Investigator
that he didnt think this quote was too good to be true because it was only a few hundred
pounds cheaper than the other quotes hed received, which he considered to be down to
competitive pricing. But it seems more likely to me that the difference in premium price was
much greater than a few hundred pounds given what Mr A had said about his earlier quotes.
Price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about a proposed
deal.
I consider that Mr A knew or ought reasonably to have known that the price was out of
keeping with how much this type of insurance cover was going to cost him. I think Mr A
should have questioned in his own mind why this was the case and made further enquiries
to satisfy himself there was nothing untoward about the situation. But from what I have seen,
Mr A only asked if there was anything cheaper. After the price was given, he said he had got
an ongoing fault accident claim and asked if that would have any affect on the quote hed
been given. He then asked questions about no claims bonus and whether he was the only
driver on the policy. Whilst I do not expect Mr A to be an expert in insurance policies or
insurance pricing, he has indicated some awareness of factors, such as a previous accident,
that may impact the cost of future cover. Against this backdrop, I am not persuaded it was
reasonable for Mr A to think this quote was legitimate, even when factoring in the discounts
the fraudster told Mr A they could obtain.
This was an expensive policy and Mr As livelihood was going to be intrinsically connected to
it. I think there were red flags present from the information Mr A had and he placed his trust
in the broker without any reasonable basis for doing so. Im not currently persuaded that
Mr A took enough care with the purchase to be able to say that he had a reasonable basis
for believing that he was buying genuine services from a legitimate broker. From what has
been said and provided so far, I think he fell below the level of care expected of him.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr A?
Ive also thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr A from financial harm from
fraud. Mr A has explained that he contacted the bank before making the payment because
he was sure that my bank would be here if anything goes wrong. This was a lot of money
for Mr A to spend so I can understand why he wanted to seek some reassurance about the
situation.
When Mr A is connected to the payments team, the bank explains that it cant see any
declined card payments and that all it can suggest is using another card or waiting a day or
two then trying again.Mr A replies as follows:
Okay I am going to transfer money into someone else account [sic] so they can pay it for
me
I just want to let you know
The amount is £1950
Because Ive tried two different bank accounts of mine and it is not working
So hopefully it works but I dont want no fraud to happen to my account
I am transferring it to the person who is dealing with my insurance
Lets hope they dont do anything stupid
Just wanted to let you know
I am going to do this now
Monzos advisor replied around 20 seconds later to say: Please tell me how it goes.
Monzo has readily accepted that it should have done a lot more here. It goes without saying
that the bank is the expert in this situation, and I do recognise that Mr A thought he was
doing the right thing by trying to get some advice about a payment he was going to make.
But looking at what Mr A said, I think he had clear doubts about this situation. I consider that
he has recognised that there is a risk here and that he has strong suspicions that something
is not right. I dont think Mr A can fairly unburden himself of any responsibility for what may
happen next, even though he has expressed doubt to the bank about the intended payment.
I dont think it is fair and reasonable to place full responsibility on the bank in this situation
where Mr A has consciously made a payment in circumstances that are too good to be true
and against his own better judgment.
Overall
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr A and I can understand why he wants to do all
that he can to try and recover the money hes lost. He sent his money in good faith and did
not receive anything in return for it. Money was already tight for him, so he was left in a
difficult position. But I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible for the actions of a fraudster. I can
only look at the banks position on Mr As fraud claim and its assessment under the CRM
Code. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the bank has been able to establish it
can choose not to fully refund Mr A under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied the bank
processed Mr As payment correctly and it did all it could to help him once it knew what had
happened.
Having looked at everything, I think Monzos offer to refund half of the money Mr A sent plus
£40 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him is an appropriate
resolution to this complaint.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Monzo did not respond. Mr A 
responded to the provisional decision over the phone and I have listened to a recording of 
him explaining his position in his own words. In summary, Mr A explained that he was trying to purchase a service and had been looking 
online for a while as he wanted to find the best deal out there. He explained that he was not 
going to limit himself to the known platforms if there is a better or cheaper alternative 
because he wants to get the most for his money. He explained how difficult things have been 
for him after having a car accident and struggling to find the money needed to repair his 
vehicle and buy new insurance. He explained that he did the most anyone can do to 
research and didnt understand what he had done wrong. He pointed out that some 
legitimate companies are small. He explained that his intentions were pure and he wasnt 
looking to be scammed; he was looking for something legitimate. 
Mr A explained that when hed found a good deal, he didnt want to waste time and risk 
losing it and said this is what anyone else would do in the same position. He explains that he 
thought everything was fine because hed spoken to the broker on the phone and seen 
positive reviews from other customers. He pointed out he wasnt just hoping to get the cover 
for this price, he had been deceived by someone who had seemed very genuine. 
Mr A felt that Monzo had let him down and not provided appropriate support when he had 
done the best he could to communicate with the bank and to try and ensure everything ran 
smoothly. He pointed out that he wouldnt have contacted the bank before making the 
transaction if he wasnt sceptical but overall, he believed it was a genuine purchase and that 
the person he was dealing with was genuine. He explained he is not able to identify 
scammers but is doing the best he can to support himself and get the best for himself and he 
expected the bank to do the same for him too. He questioned whether the bank could have 
done more. He said this was his money and it doesnt belong to the fraudster or to the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Mr As comments have not persuaded me to reach a different conclusion. 
I fully accept Mr As point that people dont want to be scammed and arent necessarily 
expecting a transaction to turn out to be a scam. There is no doubt here that Mr A has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But this, in and of itself, doesnt mean that the bank has a 
responsibility to refund the money thats been lost. In broad terms, the starting position in law 
is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises 
it to make. It would only be fair and reasonable for me to say that the bank should have to 
refund some or all of the money thats been lost if it should have done more in the 
circumstances to protect Mr A and this would have most likely prevented the scam, or if it 
should have refunded Mr A because of obligations under the CRM Code.
Monzo has already accepted that it did not do enough to warn Mr A when he contacted the 
bank and has refunded half of the money that had been lost. But it considered that Mr A had 
not taken enough care with the purchase and concluded that he didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing that it was for a genuine insurance policy and that the person/business he 
was transacting with was legitimate. 
Having weighed everything up, Mr As comments have not changed my mind. I still think 
Monzo has established that it is entitled to apply an exception to full reimbursement under 
the CRM Code. Mr A has said that he did undertake checks and that he had pure intentions. 
I dont doubt Mr As belief that he did everything right. But I dont think it was realistic for 
Mr A to think the specialist insurance cover that he wanted was genuinely being offered for 
so much less than the other quotes hed obtained. I understand that people can and do find 
good deals online and that Mr A wanted to get the best deal that he could. But the quote was significantly out of keeping with the wider research that hed undertaken, which is a red flag 
that something may not be what it appears to be. 
Mr A has said that he was to some extent sceptical, but ultimately he thought he was dealing 
with a genuine person and a genuine company based on his own assessment of the 
interactions they had. In my provisional decision, I highlighted reasons why I found those 
interactions to have been concerning. Mr A didnt know this person or the brokerage they 
were purporting to be connected to. Hed not used their services before and did not know 
anyone else personally that had. Mr A and the broker were in contact to arrange insurance 
over social media platforms very late into the evening and the language the broker was 
using was unprofessional and overly familiar. Im also mindful that at the time Mr A agreed to 
buy the insurance policy, hed not seen any quotation paperwork or documentation setting 
out the details of the cover or any significant clauses that he needed to be aware of in order 
to decide if the insurance was going to be right for him. I dont think Mr As interactions were 
sufficient to give him peace of mind that he was dealing with a genuine insurance broker. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr As comments about wanting to not lose a good deal and abut 
the social media page appearing legitimate, with followers and posts showing what looked 
like satisfied clients. But given the nature of the platform used, it wasnt really possible for 
Mr A to verify the truth of what he was seeing in that platform alone. As such I dont find it 
was reasonable to place such heavy reliance on this as a means of judging the broker and 
the policy to be genuine, at least not in the face of the other concerning elements present.
Where it can be established that a customer has not met the required level of care, the CRM 
Code says liability should be shared equally with the customer. Here Ive found that Monzo 
has established that Mr A didnt meet that level of care, and so the banks offer to reimburse 
half his loss already has the effect of sharing the liability equally with him. I cant fairly 
require it to do more than that in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr A questioned whether the bank could have done more to try and protect him from 
financial harm. Monzo has already agreed that although Mr A was making an unremarkable 
payment, it should have done more to engage with him when he asked the bank for help. It 
refunded him half of the money hed send to recognise this.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Monzo acted quickly to try to recover the funds Mr A 
had sent, but no money remained. Unfortunately, it is not unusual that fraudsters will quickly 
move funds on leaving nothing to be retrieved and this was sadly the case here. I dont think 
there was anything further I could reasonably have expected from Monzo in the attempts it 
made to recover Mr As funds. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr A and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained both here and in my 
provisional decision which is outlined above and forms part of this final decision, I cant fairly 
or reasonably ask Monzo to refund the remainder of the money that he lost or to pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Claire MarshOmbudsman