DRN-3969893
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that PayPal is holding her liable for a debt on her account.
What happened
I set out my findings in a provisional decision. I didnt uphold the complaint. I asked both 
parties if they had anything further to add. Ms P responded to the provisional decision. She 
didnt accept my findings and responded with several points of contention.
 
I have carefully considered these additional points, and Im not minded to change the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Summary facts of the complaint and my provisional findings were as follows:
Ms Ps partner used her online auction account to sell an item. This is included a payment 
that was processed through PayPal and a partial cash payment as the item was collected in 
person. 
The buyer initially claimed the item wasnt received. PayPal said the item wasnt covered by 
its buyer/seller protection scheme because it was collected in person. The dispute was 
resolved in Ms Ps favour.
The seller went on to raise a chargeback with their own bank (not with PayPal) under the 
reason  item not as described. PayPal submitted a response to the chargeback, but it was 
unsuccessful in its defence and Ms P lost the chargeback dispute and PayPal created a debt 
on her account.
 
As part of my provisional decision, I considered:
- If PayPals actions in light of its protection scheme were fair. I said it was  the policy 
on shipment was clear, in order for an item to be covered by the policy. Even though 
the dispute was resolved in the sellers favour this was a default position (as the 
protection didnt apply) rather than PayPal considering the evidence and being 
satisfied that the dispute should be resolved in Ms Ps favour.
- Whether PayPal carried out its role to provide its bank with evidence to defend the 
chargeback and I was satisfied that it did. Although it could have handled the 
correspondence better and whilst not all of Ms Ps evidence was used to defend the 
chargeback, I was satisfied that the chargeback wouldnt have likely been successful 
in any event. 
- Ms P still had recourse in law to pursue the buyer for the item/debt.
- PayPal had made a goodwill offer of £1,000 to settle the complaint and I left this with 
Ms P if she wished to accept it.
- Overall I didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms P didnt accept my provisional decision. I have summarised her points to the relevant 
issues concerning my provisional findings.
1. Ms P says the buyer shouldnt have collected the item if it wasnt as described. The 
buyer should have contacted the seller and returned the item and requested a refund 
as per the online auction websites conditions - of which she has provided a 
screenshot. She has no evidence from the buyer about the item not being as 
described and the buyer didnt contact Ms P or her partner about this either. 
2. She believes PayPal is offering the £1,000 compensation because she complained 
about not being able to submit all her evidence to defend the chargeback. And then 
when she was able to go on to provide this it was too late, as the chargeback had 
already been processed. 
3. She said the item was privately purchased. But hasnt provided any additional 
evidence to support this. 
4. She doesnt have any details about the buyer and there has been no further 
relationship since. She believes she has no other recourse to resolve this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address the relevant points in turn and explain why Im not upholding this complaint. 
In response to Ms Ps points. 
1. Ms P has provided a screenshot of the online auction websites money back policy  
these are not PayPals conditions. But in any event, I cant see the guarantee would 
apply here either, as it excludes items paid for where part of the payment was 
completed outside of the auction website  i.e. cash, which was the case here.
The buyer contacted their own bank to raise the chargeback claim. The buyer was 
entitled to raise a chargeback  rather than go through the PayPals dispute policy 
and so I can only consider what PayPal did in light of the chargeback. In situations 
like this the buyers bank contacts PayPals bank and asks whether or not it wishes to 
defend the chargeback. PayPals bank will ask PayPal to send it any evidence to use 
as a defence, and it will then send this onto the buyers bank. As PayPal is a 
payment processor, its role is not to defend a chargeback request. Its bank is 
responsible for this. PayPals role is to provide its bank with evidence from its 
customer (Ms P) so it can put forward a defence. Im satisfied PayPal did this.
2. Ive already considered if the additional information would have made a difference 
and I dont think it would have. I cant comment on the reason for the £1,000 
settlement proposal  PayPal hasnt said why its making the offer. But Im not 
recommending that it pay anything further.
3. Ms P has still not provided any evidence of ownership. And some of the other 
information about the sale, evidence and conversation with the buyer appears 
incomplete. 
4. Ms P has the name, address, telephone number and email address of the buyer. All 
of which has been provided to the police. She can also raise a civil claim against the 
buyer with this information.
Considering all of the additional points made, and all the evidence again, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will leave Ms P to decide if she wishes to accept PayPals £1,000 offer. My final decision
As Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman