DRN-3369579
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim she made on her Amtrust Europe Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy, which was declined.
All references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs B entered into an agreement with a family member to renovate their property. Mrs B 
says the terms of that agreement include her being permitted to live in the property and 
inherit it upon the death of the family member. She has since been asked to leave the 
property and told that she wont inherit it. Mrs B wanted to challenge this, so she made a 
claim on her Amtrust legal expenses insurance policy for help to cover her legal costs. 
Amtrust declined the claim for a number of reasons. They said the claim predated the period 
of insurance and that the type of dispute Mrs B wanted to claim for wasnt covered by the 
policy. Mrs B doesnt agree. She feels that Amtrust are responsible for the period in question 
and that they should provide cover.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said he didnt think the claim Mrs B was looking to make fell within the period of cover that 
Amtrust were insuring, but even if it did, there was no cover for the claim that Mrs B wanted 
to make. Mrs B doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mrs B has told us she made an agreement with a family member to renovate their property. 
A written agreement was given to the family member in 2009 but as I understand it a verbal 
agreement was made sometime in 1997. In September 2021 Mrs B made a claim on her 
Amtrust legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim against her family 
member. As I understand it, Amtrust provided Mrs B with legal expenses insurance cover 
from October 2020 to 2021. Amtrust declined the claim under the policy terms relevant to 
this period. 
Mrs B feels that Amtrust were her insurer in 2008 and so should cover her claim. The 
evidence shes provided to support this isnt conclusive. Theres no date attached to the 
policy summary shes sent and I dont have any corresponding policy schedule or terms to 
accurately say Amtrust are responsible for providing her with cover at that time nor indeed 
what would have been covered. I know this is frustrating for Mrs B, but ultimately she would 
have been provided with policy details when she took out cover over the years so its up to 
her to show that she had the benefit of cover and what it covered when seeking to rely on 
that insurance. 
I note theres also a question over whether a policy in 2008 would have covered the claim 
she wishes to make in any event. Thats because the agreement Mrs B entered into with her 
family member appears to have taken place verbally in 1997. Depending on what her policy 
says, its quite possible that a 2008 policy wouldnt cover this agreement, so she might need 
to go back in time to see whether she had cover in place before the verbal agreement took 
place.
Like the investigator said, even if the policy Amtrust provided Mrs B with in 2020 was 
applicable to the timeframe of the claim she wanted to make, theres nothing in the terms 
that lead me to believe the claim shes made would be covered. Mrs B has said the property 
infringement section of the policy would apply. I dont agree. That section covers Costs to 
pursue a Legal Action for nuisance or trespass.... The claim Mrs B wishes to make isnt for 
nuisance or trespass- rather its to enforce the terms of an agreement she feels her family 
member entered into with her. Arguably its a contract dispute. The policy does provide cover 
for contract disputes but not in the circumstances of the claim Mrs B wishes to make. Rather 
the Consumer Pursuit section of the policy covers costs to pursue a Legal Action following
a breach of a contract You have for buying or renting goods or services for Your private 
use. The claim Mrs B wishes to make isnt in relation to buying or renting goods or services. 
Rather it relates to claiming a right of occupation together with an agreement to inherit a 
property. Because of this I dont think I can say that her claim would be one that attracts 
cover under these terms.
Overall, I dont think Mrs Bs policy with Amtrust covers her for the claim she wishes to make 
because it doesnt cover the timeframe of the agreement she says has been breached and 
even if it did, it doesnt cover the type of claim she wishes to make. Because of this I think 
she might benefit from identifying a policy that covers her for the agreement period. Its 
possible the terms of that policy might be wider than those set out within the Amtrust policy 
such that they might cover her for the type of claim shes looking to make.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman