DRN-2977523
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined her terminal 
illness benefit claim on her life assurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs S took out a life assurance policy with Aviva on 1 May 2001 for a term of 20 years and 
with a sum assured of £250,000. This means the policy expired on 1 May 2021. 
Mrs S was, unfortunately, diagnosed with breast cancer in 2010. She underwent treatment 
but was told in 2014 that she had secondary bone cancer. At that stage Mrs S underwent a 
spinal operation and had radiotherapy. In 2020 Mrs S was told the cancer had spread to one 
of her lungs. 
Mrs S said she received a letter from Aviva in 2021, when her policy was close to expiring, 
and at this point she realised her policy included terminal illness benefit. So Mrs S contacted 
Aviva in February 2021 to make a claim. 
Aviva initially told Mrs S it couldnt consider a claim as the policy was within 18 months of 
expiring and it didnt accept claims in the last 18 months of a policy. However, because Mrs 
S was told her condition was incurable in 2014, Aviva agreed to consider whether Mrs S 
might have had an earlier claim. 
Aviva then declined Mrs Ss claim in April 2021. It said it obtained a medical report and 
scans from Mrs Ss Consultant Oncologist and these showed the progression of her 
condition since 2010. It said the medical records showed Mrs Ss condition became 
incurable in 2014. Since then her condition was relatively stable until December 2020, which 
it said was within the last 18 months of the policy term. And Aviva said it was unable to 
consider a claim in the last 18 months. 
Aviva said the key consideration was whether Mrs S was expected to survive beyond the 
remainder of the policy term. So, to pay the claim it would need evidence that Mrs S was not 
expected to survive beyond 1 May 2021. And it said there was no evidence of this in the 
Oncologists report. Aviva said although Mrs Ss condition might deteriorate, it was 
impossible to say when this might be. 
Aviva also said if the claim had been pursued in 2014, when Mrs Ss condition was noted to 
be incurable, then it would have needed clear evidence that her life expectancy then was 
less than 12 months. And as her condition was stable at the time, it would not have been in a 
position to accept a claim. 
Mrs S was unhappy with what Aviva said and so complained to it. Aviva responded and 
reiterated what it said when it declined Mrs Ss claim. Mrs S then complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S didnt agree with what our 
investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to explain what terminal illness benefit is. Life assurance policies are 
designed to pay out as and when a policy holder passes away, as long as this happens 
while the policy is still in force. But insurers recognise that a policy holder who has been 
diagnosed as terminally ill often benefits from having the life assurance payment made to 
them in advance of their death. And in this way they have the opportunity to, for instance, 
settle their financial affairs. And this advance payment of the death benefit is called terminal 
illness benefit. 
So, broadly speaking, its likely a terminal illness benefit claim will only be paid if it is 
expected that the policy holder will pass away during the policy term. Its not unreasonable 
for insurers to want to ensure they are only settling claims where the policy would still have 
been in force at the point in time the policy holder actually passes away. So, this is why a lot 
of insurers have a term in life assurance policies that says they wont accept terminal illness 
benefit claims within the last 18 months of the policy. This service sees these as fair terms. 
The relevant term in Mrs Ss policy is:
Terminal Illness Benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen months prior 
to the Expiry Date, the Life Insured is diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or rapidly 
progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal Illness") which is, in the opinion of the 
Companys medical adviser, such that the life expectancy of the Life Assured is no greater 
than twelve months from the date the condition is notified to the Company by the 
Policyholder.
In Mrs Ss case, Aviva agreed to look at her claim, given that she said she received a 
terminal diagnosis back in 2014. The rationale here is that if Mrs S had realised she had 
terminal illness benefit at this earlier point, then it seems likely she would have submitted a 
claim at some stage prior to 1 November 2019 (18 months before the policy ended). So, 
assessing the claim now means Mrs S isnt placed at a disadvantage because she didnt 
know earlier that she could submit a claim. 
But, in agreeing to assess a claim now, Aviva didnt agree to put aside the 18 month term, 
which I think is fair. Its still the case that in order to have a claim paid, Mrs S would need to 
have had a life expectancy of less than 12 months prior to the last 18 months of the policy, 
so earlier than 1 November 2019. 
Ive looked at the historical medical records and the report submitted by Mrs Ss Oncologist. 
Its clear that Mrs S was diagnosed with incurable cancer back in October 2014. But, in order 
to meet the terms of the policy, its not enough for Mrs S to be diagnosed with an incurable 
or terminal condition. It needs to be that she was given a prognosis of less than 12 months 
prior to 1 November 2019. And theres nothing in the medical records to suggest Mrs S was 
given a prognosis of 12 months or less to live at any point from 2014 onwards. 
I know that Mrs S has said her Oncologist told her that after her surgery in 2014, they did not 
expect that she would still be here now. I can see that Mrs Ss Oncologist made a similar 
statement in the medical report provided  they said Mrs S has done much better than ever 
expected. But again, its not enough that the Oncologist is saying, many years after 2014, that they are pleasantly surprised by how well Mrs S has done. There would need to be a 
more concrete prognosis of Mrs S having less than 12 months to live. 
Although Aviva said it wouldnt put aside the 18 month term and so wouldnt consider 
whether Mrs S had a valid claim after 1 November 2019, it did go on to consider whether 
Mrs S was expected to survive beyond the remainder of the policy term. And it said there 
was no evidence from the Oncologists report that Mrs S wasnt expected to survive. Having 
seen the report, I agree that there was no evidence that Mrs S was not expected to survive 
beyond the policy term. In fact, Mrs Ss Oncologist, who provided the report in April 2021, 
noted that they expected Mrs Ss condition to deteriorate within one year, if there were no 
oncological treatments. So, Mrs S was expected to survive beyond the policy term. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs S and the position shes in. From the information 
provided, its clear Mrs S has been unwell for some time. But the terms of this particular 
policy are very specific. Its a policy designed to pay a death benefit when an individual 
passes away, or an advance death benefit if an individual meets the terminal illness benefit 
criteria. I could only ask Aviva to pay Mrs Ss claim if she met the criteria and Im satisfied 
thats not the case. So although I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed with my 
decision, Im not asking Aviva to take any further action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman