DRN-2491057
The complaint
Ms D complained that the branch manager of TSB Bank plc trading as TSB (TSB) was 
abusive to her.
What happened
Ms D visited a branch of TSB with her mother on 20 April 2020. She wanted to make a 
withdrawal from her mothers account. They didnt have the correct identification so had to 
come back the following day, which they did. There was then a disagreement between Ms D 
and the branch manager.
Ms D complained. She said that the manager had been angry and aggressive to her. She 
wasnt happy with TSBs final response. And said that if she had been so rude, then why 
hadnt TSB asked her to close her accounts. 
TSB responded. They said that they didnt agree with Ms Ds version of events. They said 
that Ms D jumped the queue and then kicked a door and swore at the security guard. It was 
recorded on CCTV  which was no longer available as it was deleted after three months.
Ms D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
In November 2020, she said she was unable to really form a fair view on what had 
happened. The CCTV footage was no longer available  and even if it was, it was likely that 
there wouldnt have been any sound, so she couldnt have heard what was said. She 
couldnt find any evidence to show that the branch staff had acted badly, and so she couldnt 
say that TSB had done anything wrong.
Ms D asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see and appreciate how strongly Ms D feels about this. She feels she has been badly 
wronged. It looks like she was waiting outside the branch  with her elderly mother  for it to 
open. She says it was late opening. There was a queue which was frustrating. And her 
father had recently passed away. So, the situation was stressful all round. 
Ms D says that the branch manager was rude and abusive to her without cause. TSB say 
that this wasnt the case  that Ms D swore and kicked a door. Ive seen TSBs customer 
notes and thats how their version of events was recorded  having spoken the branch staff.
In cases like this, TSB might ask Ms D to close her account with them  but they say they 
took a decision not to as they felt that Ms D was feeling upset and stressed at the time. 
I wasnt at the branch to witness what happened. There are conflicting stories of the events 
and I cannot say which one is right, and which one isnt. But it looks like the situation 
spiralled and neither side could defuse it. But, based on what Ive seen here, I cant say that 
TSB did anything wrong, so I cant ask them to do anymore. 
I do appreciate how Ms D feels about this and she will be disappointed. She says she 
doesnt want to visit the branch again. But if she feels she can  and if she wants to carry on 
banking with TSB - then Id suggest that she and the branch staff sit down and see if they 
can find a way forward. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman