DRN-2963036
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc couldnt locate a cheque he had issued.
What happened
Mr M complained to HSBC after it couldnt locate a cheque he believed was returned to the 
bank. Mr M had issued the cheque to a third-party firm (who Ill refer to as F). Mr M says F 
told him it couldnt process the cheque and its usual process it to return the cheque to the 
sender or the bank the sender holds their account with.  
HSBC said it couldnt trace the cheque because it never debited Mr Ms account. The bank 
also paid him £20 to make up for its delay in responding to Mr Ms trace request  Mr M 
indicates he is happy with this.
After Mr M asked this service to get involved, one of our investigators concluded that HSBC 
had acted fairly. Remaining unhappy, Mr M asked for a final decision  so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
Mr Ms provided commentary and documents related to a dispute he has with F, for which 
hes also raised a separate complaint about with this service. I wont be commenting on 
anything related to the complaint Mr M has against F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC says it cannot trace the cheque because it was never presented for payment, nor was 
Mr Ms account debited with the amount set out in the cheque. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the cheque debited Mr Ms account either. The bank told us that if the cheque 
was returned to the account holding branch or HSBCs processing centre, then it wouldve 
written to Mr M to let him know. HSBC says it has no record of the cheque being returned to 
it  otherwise it wouldve informed Mr M sooner.
I cant say for certain what happened to the missing cheque. Mr M tells us that F says it was 
sent to the wrong department so it couldnt be processed  F told Mr M its procedure is to 
return cheques that cannot be processed either to the customer directly or to the account 
holding bank. But HSBC says theres no record of the cheque being returned. So I cant 
fairly conclude that the cheque went missing because of something HSBC did wrong.
Mr M wants to recover costs he says he incurred because of legal action by F. As I said 
though, HSBC doesnt seem to have acted unfairly here, so I cant ask it to reimburse Mr M if 
I cant point to any wrongdoing in the first place. Moreover, as pointed out previously, it 
seems F commenced legal action sometime after HSBC had informed Mr M that it couldnt 
locate the cheque and that the funds hadnt debited his account. So I think Mr M had the 
time to reasonably act on the information he had to possibly avoid the costs he incurred.
To conclude, I think HSBC acted reasonably here  it doesnt seem to me that the bank did 
anything wrong which led to the cheque going missing, nor do I think HSBC caused the 
financial loss Mr M experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman