DRN-4280395
The complaint
Miss K and Mr K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC credited £380 less for a cash deposit 
than it should have. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in April 2022 Miss K attended a Barclays branch to make a cash 
deposit. Miss K and Mr K have said the amount deposited was £16,500 and they are sure 
about this. 
Because the cash deposit was for such a large amount, Barclays didnt count it at the open 
counter when Miss K deposited it. Instead, Miss K was given a receipt for the deposit, and 
the cash was placed in an envelope and counted later by Barclays.
When Barclays counted the cash later, it found the amount to be £16,120. Miss K and Mr K 
complained to Barclays because they said this wasnt right. Unhappy with Barclays 
response, Miss K and Mr K referred their complaint about Barclays to us, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as 
our Investigator.
I acknowledge Miss Ks and Mr Ks strength of feeling. And I accept that I cant be absolutely 
certain here that Miss K didnt hand over cash totalling £16,500. But in a situation like this  
where I cant be sure about something  I need to make my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities; in other words, based on what I think most likely happened considering all 
the available evidence. 
Its common ground that due to its amount, the deposit wasnt counted at the branchs open 
counter. Instead, Miss K handed over numerous bundles of cash, which the cashier placed 
into a blue bag/envelope. Miss K was given an acknowledgement of deposit slip, which 
showed the cash total as £16,500, and which explained, Cash and cheques will be counted, 
verified and credited to your account later today. If there is a discrepancy in the amount we 
will contact you. Thus the deposit was to be treated as a credit to be checked and 
processed by Barclays later in a more secure area.
Now I understand that Miss K has said she thinks the £380 disappeared when the cashier 
was putting the cash into the blue bag/envelope; that he didnt secure the cash with a rubber 
band before doing so, and that she wasnt able to watch his every move because she was 
busy handling further cash bundles, ready to pass them over. But the evidence Ive seen, 
including the CCTV footage, doesnt support that anything untoward happened. Instead, it 
appears to me that the cash Miss K handed over was put into the blue bag/envelope without 
issue. 
Miss K has said she also didnt see the process by which the blue bag/envelope was then 
passed from the cashier to the secure back area to be counted. And shes also questioned 
why the process took so long. However, Miss K has said Barclays explained it was dealing 
with many other credits that day, so it couldnt process hers right away. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. And whilst there is no footage of the process by which the blue bag/envelope 
was passed from the cashier to the secure back area to be counted, this doesnt prove the 
£380 was lost at this point. I dont think this adds material weight to either partys argument. I 
also need to take into account the other weight of evidence, including that Barclays says the 
branch tills balanced, and having reviewed this Im satisfied there were no notable 
discrepancies that would support Miss K and Mr Ks position.  
Then, when the cash was counted in Barclays secure area, Barclays has explained that the 
member of staff found it to be £16,120; and that this was then raised with the branch 
manager, who double checked matters and found the same. Im satisfied from the evidence 
Ive seen that this is what most likely happened. And again, the CCTV footage Ive seen 
doesnt persuade me any mistakes or anything untoward happened.
I appreciate Miss K and Mr K would have preferred to have been able to view the CCTV 
footage themselves. However, as our Investigator explained, when looking into complaints, 
there is often confidential or commercially sensitive information that we gather which, whilst 
it can be reviewed by our service, is not always appropriate to be shared. Im satisfied that 
this is such an instance. We have this power under the rules we operate under. Miss K and 
Mr K have my reassurance that I have viewed this evidence impartially. And had I seen 
evidence that persuaded me that Miss K most likely did deposit £16,500 (and not £16,120) 
and that the £380 most likely went missing in branch, I would have upheld this complaint. 
But here, for the reasons Ive explained, the evidence doesnt persuade me of this. 
I dont doubt from what Miss K and Mr K have said that they honestly believed the cash they 
deposited totalled £16,500. At the same time, this doesnt mean it did total £16,500, and its 
quite possible they were mistaken. And beyond what Miss K and Mr K have said, I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence that it did total this amount. 
I know Miss K and Mr K will be disappointed. But this means Im not persuaded here that 
Barclays did anything wrong. This means I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman