DRN-4046303
The complaint
Mr H complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants suitable compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged by falling building material and he made a claim on his policy. He 
was unhappy with delays in the claim, that his car wasnt fully repaired, and this had to be 
rectified. He was also unhappy with esures communication and its liability decision. 
esure said it had recorded the claim as a fault as it couldnt recover its outlay. It said its 
communication about liability had been lacking and the repairs had to be rectified, and it paid 
Mr H £250 compensation for this. But Mr H remained unhappy as he said this was a goodwill 
refund of his excess and not compensation for his complaint.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had acknowledged the poor repairs and communication issues and reasonably 
compensated Mr H for these as explained in its complaint response. He thought esure had 
correctly recorded the liability decision. 
Mr H replied that he was complaining about how esures complaints team had handled his 
complaint, not about the claim and the compensation payment. But our Investigator 
explained that complaints handling isnt something that normally falls within our jurisdiction. 
Mr H replied further, clarifying his complaint points and explaining that he hadnt been 
compensated for his stress, embarrassment, loss of work due to stress, lost value of his car, 
and his time spent. He reiterated that the £250 was a goodwill reimbursement of his excess, 
not compensation for service failings. Mr H asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H complained about esures customer service. He said he didnt receive promised calls 
back, he was passed between departments and spent long periods on hold. He said esure 
initially said the claim would be non-fault and it hadnt told him when it changed its decision 
on liability after this was contested by the other insurer. Mr H was unhappy that esure wasnt 
proactive in pursuing the claim. 
I can see that when Mr H reported the claim and provided details of the buildings owner, 
esure pressed its insurer to accept liability for the damage to Mr Hs car. But it was ultimately 
unable to prove that the buildings owner had been negligent. And it explained to Mr H that it 
was unable to recover its outlay from the buildings insurer and so it recorded a fault against 
his driving record. 
Im satisfied that esure reasonably pursued the other insurer and made its decision after 
reasonably considering the likelihood of successfully defending the claim. I think its entitled 
to decide how to deal with the claim by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that 
it did anything wrong in this. But esure agreed that it should have better managed Mr Hs 
expectations and it apologised for this. 
Mr H has explained that his car had to be taken back by esures approved repairers three 
times for rectification work. And I can see that he remains unhappy with the quality of the 
repairs and thinks this has affected the cars resale value. 
I think Mr H could reasonably expect his repairs to be completed satisfactorily without the 
need for rectification. Ive listened to the call between Mr H and esure in April 2022 when 
they discussed this matter. Mr H told esure that the repairs issues had been resolved. So I 
dont think it would be fair to ask esure to do anything further. If Mr H remains unhappy with 
the repairs carried out, then he could always raise this as a repairs guarantee issue. 
esure offered Mr H £250 compensation for these service failings. This amount happens to be 
the same as Mr Hs policy excess. But Im satisfied that as the claim was a fault, the excess 
would be payable. Ive not seen evidence that this was waived or refunded. So I havent 
seen any evidence that esure offered Mr H £250 to reimburse his excess.
I think this amount of compensation is in keeping with our published guidance for the impact 
these service failings had on Mr H. And so I think this was fair and reasonable and I dont 
require esure to do anything further. 
Mr H was unhappy with the service provided by esures complaints team. But, under the 
rules that govern us, we cant look at complaints about complaints handling unless it has an 
underlying connection to the financial service provided. In this case, Mr H was concerned 
about call handling times, calls back, and esures understanding of and response to his 
complaint. I think this falls under the definition of complaints handling. So Im satisfied that 
this is outside our remit, and I cant consider that here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman