DRN-1987451
The complaint
This complaint is about three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr and Mrs B hold with The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). Theyre unhappy that TMW is managing them collectively 
as a portfolio rather than individually.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the complaint is simpler than its been made to look. The starting point in 
deciding this complaint isnt whether TMWs policy in 2005 dictated a minimum number of 
mortgages were required for a portfolio. Rather, its what was in the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage offers. Those documents form the contract between TMW and Mr and Mrs B, 
and Mr and Mrs B agreed to be bound by it when they borrowed the money.
There are two mortgage offers; the first covers the first two BTLs; the second covers the 
third BTL. Both contain the following clause:
Your attention is drawn to the fact that under the mortgage terms all properties charged by 
you to us will form the security for all monies owed to us. This could be particularly 
significant if we are asked to consider the release of property during the term of the 
mortgage.
If Mr and Mrs B werent familiar with that clause, or its effect, thats not a matter for TMW. 
Ensuring Mr and Mrs B knew and understood the terms of the contracts they were entering 
into lay with the mortgage broker who arranged the mortgages for them. The key point here 
is that the effect of the clause is to permit TMW to treat the mortgages as component parts 
of a portfolio.
This issue came to light because Mr and Mrs B did ask about releasing property. I 
appreciate they were unhappy with how TMW answered their enquiry. But it was entirely 
consistent with the terms of the mortgages and therefore not unfair treatment, which is the 
test I have to apply.
TMW did give Mr and Mrs B incorrect information about the possibility that they might pay an 
early repayment charge (ERC) on removing one of the properties from the portfolio. Thats 
been corrected, and TMW has paid £150 compensation, which I consider fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman