DRN-4424710
The complaint
Miss A complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) handled a claim under 
her car insurance policy. When I mention West Bay I also mean its suppliers and inspection 
services.
What happened
Miss A had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering her car. In October 2022 she 
was informed by West Bay that a third party alleged shed hit their parked car. The collision 
was alleged to have happened in May 2022.
Miss A denied the collision. She asked for more details about the location and timing of it. 
West Bay didnt have this information. It asked to inspect Miss As car, but Miss A didnt 
agree until West Bay provided her with the date, time and location of the alleged collision.
In January 2023 West Bay obtained these details from the third-party insurer.
Miss A denied being at the location, which was close to her home, at the time and date 
provided.
Miss A complained that she could not have been involved in the collision. She also said 
West Bays service was poor, she was promised calls back and she was hung up on by one 
member of staff.
West Bay inspected her car and found some areas of damage on the rear nearside light 
cluster and bumper. It said these were consistent with the collision. Miss A said some of the 
damage was on the car when shed bought it.
Miss As renewal premium increased and her No Claims Discount (NCD) was reduced.
West Bay paid the third-partys claim on a without prejudice basis.
West Bay upheld Miss As complaint in part. It agreed some of its service hadnt been good 
enough, but it said a lot of the delays were caused by the delayed notification of the claim 
and responses by the third-party insurer. It paid Miss A £100 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience.
Miss A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for 
compensation and an apology from West Bay, and that it changes its claims handling 
procedures.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think West Bay had 
investigated the collision fairly given that it took five months for the claim to be made. He 
also said West Bays engineer had said the third-party car needed inspection to match the 
damage and that West Bay should have obtained a report from the third-party insurer.
He said West Bay should remove the claim from a database of claims, and awarded an 
additional £200 compensation to Miss A. He said that Miss As NCD should be reinstated.
West Bay didnt agree and asked that this complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider this further:
Having read the file of evidence Ive been provided, Im intending to uphold Miss As 
complaint in part. Im issuing this decision on a provisional basis because I dont think West 
Bay investigated her claim effectively, causing her distress and inconvenience, but I also 
dont think this has prejudiced Miss As position.
This means that I have reached a different decision to our investigator and the remedies Im 
proposing are different. Id ask that both parties consider this provisional decision carefully 
and provide their responses.
I can see Miss A has asked that West Bay change its claims handling procedures in her 
complaint. This service isnt the regulator and Im not able to require West Bay to do this. 
Instead, I can look at what its done during the claim and decide if its actions have been fair 
and reasonable.
West Bay agreed to settle the third partys claim for damage to their vehicle on the basis that 
its insured had provided Miss As name, address and vehicle registration number to it. It said 
this was enough reason to think that Miss A had reasonably caused a collision and that if 
challenged in court West Bay would expect to lose the case.
Ive thought about this carefully. On the one hand, West Bay has a responsibility to settle 
claims quickly, as by doing so it will help keep its costs low. But its also got to make 
reasonably sure that its only paying valid claims or it might put its own policyholders at a 
disadvantage.
In this case, West Bay said:
The third party has provided details of our insured and the damage to our 
policyholders vehicle is consistent with the incident. We settled the third party claim 
on a without prejudice basis, in order to mitigate costs. We have not accepted liability 
& this remains outstanding. We have been trying to obtain the third party engineers 
report.
West Bay has said that the damage to Miss As car is consistent with the incident. But the 
only description it had said that Miss A was alleged to have hit a parked vehicle.
I asked West Bay to get the vehicle inspection report from the third-party insurer, and it was 
able to get this quite quickly.
I can see from both of the vehicle inspection reports that theres damage to both vehicles, 
and the damage to Miss As might have happened when it contacted the third partys car.
By that, I mean that the damage to one corner of the rear of her car seems to be 
approximately the correct height for it to have contacted and damaged the centre-rear of the 
third party. The damage seems minor and it would seem to me to have been the result of a 
low speed, possibly parking-related, incident.
So taking that into account, I can understand how the third party could have alleged their car 
was contacted by Miss As.Having looked at the evidence Im minded to agree with West Bay that enough evidence 
exists, on the balance of probabilities, to say Miss A caused the damage. So I think its 
decision to settle the third-party claim is fair and reasonable. I know Miss A feels particularly 
strongly about this, but West Bay has to take into account its likelihood of success in court 
and West Bay will have significant experience in cases like these and will know how the 
case is likely to result.
Its important that I also mention West Bay settled the third-party claim without prejudice 
which means it can recover the amounts it paid if further information is found which changes 
the likely position on liability.
Ive also thought about our investigators view saying that this claim should be removed from 
Miss As records and her NCD reinstated. I know this will disappoint Miss A, but Im not 
going to ask West Bay to do either of these. I say that because Ive said I think West Bay 
has acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions when it settled the claim, so it should 
stay on Miss As records both within and external to West Bay. I therefore cant ask West 
Bay to change those records or her NCD given that its paid a claim on her behalf.
That also means the claim will be what is commonly regarded as a fault claim because 
West Bay isnt able to recover its costs from anyone else.
But I also think West Bay failed to investigate the claim well enough. It took about five 
months for the claim to be made against Miss A and the third-party engineers report (which 
is dated May 2022) wasnt available until I asked for it. West Bays engineer also said it 
needed to be compared with the third-partys vehicle inspection report, but West Bay didnt 
do this.
I can see there was a delay of a few months in the middle of the claim when Miss A wouldnt 
let West Bay inspect her car as it didnt have any further information about when or where 
the collision had taken place. I think its fair to say that West Bay should already have had 
this information as its a basic part of verifying who might be liable for a collision.
Taking everything into account, I dont think West Bay has investigated this claim sufficiently 
or early enough. I appreciate West Bay has a responsibility to mitigate its costs, but it also 
has a duty to act fairly towards its policyholder, Miss A.
But I also dont think Miss A has been prejudiced by its actions because I think West Bays 
decision on liability is fair and has been taken in line with its terms and conditions. By not 
investigating the collision earlier and more effectively, I think West Bay has caused distress 
and inconvenience to Miss A during an extended period, so I think it needs to pay her an 
additional £200 for her distress and inconvenience, making a total of £300.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss A responded and said she was disappointed by my provisional decision. She asks 
further questions about the circumstances of the collision and West Bays investigation. Ill 
deal with these questions below.
West Bay also responded. It agreed that it would pay £300 to Miss A for her distress and 
inconvenience. It also provided evidence that its engineer had now looked at both vehicle 
reports and said they didnt think the damage was consistent across the two vehicles. It has 
approached the third-party insurer and asked for further evidence from it that Miss A caused 
the damage.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I talked about an insurers responsibility to investigate matters 
sufficiently well on behalf of its policyholders. I think West Bays response demonstrates that 
it recognises it didnt carry out enough investigation of the incident when it was notified, as 
one of its engineers has now looked at the matter further and identified some discrepancies 
with the locations of the damage. This happened following this services request for the third-
party damage report.
Miss A asks in her response to my provisional decision whether video evidence has been 
obtained from things like doorbell cameras. Ive not been provided with evidence of this and 
Id suggest to Miss A that she may be best placed to enquire about any existing evidence of 
this in the location where the damage happened, given that she also has the date and time 
of the incident. If shes able to do this, and provide the footage to West Bay, it may be useful 
in clarifying whether her car was present or was involved in the incident.
I can also say that West Bay has provided the third-party inspection report to this service so 
Miss A may be able to access this from West Bay.
I mentioned a delay during the claim when Miss A wouldnt let West Bay inspect her car 
because it couldnt tell her when or where the incident was alleged to have happened. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I meant no criticism of her regarding this and I as I said in my 
provisional decision I think its fair to say that West Bay should already have had this 
information as its a basic part of verifying who might be liable for a collision.
Taking everything into account, I dont think West Bays service in investigating the claim 
and dealing with Miss A was good enough. I can see theres been an impact on Miss A and 
because this distress has taken place over an extended period I think a total of £300 
compensation is appropriate and in line with this services guidelines. 
I can see West Bay are now investigating the damage further and have approached the 
third-party insurer with its further evidence. I hope Miss A and West Bay are able to work 
together with the third-party insurer to clarify which party may be at fault for the damage.
It's important that I say Miss A may still be found at some fault for the damage. What I 
mean by this is that West Bay might not be able to recover its costs from the third party, so 
Miss A will have a percentage of fault applying to her records. 
If this happens, then my provisional decision talks about the impact on her NCD and claims 
history.
But if Miss A is found to not be at fault for the damage, then Id expect West Bay to amend 
records of the claim from her internal file and any external databases its updated, and 
reinstate her NCD accordingly. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct West Bay Insurance plc to 
pay Miss A £300 in total for her distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to 
investigate the claim effectively. Its my understanding that £100 has already been paid, so 
this can be deducted.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman