DRN-3421397
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) failed to provide a 
courtesy car in a timely manner after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Bs catalytic convertor was stolen from his car. He made a claim to 
Advantage the following day and it instructed a garage to carry out the repairs. Two days 
after the garage had been instructed Mr B found out there would be a long delay. He 
contacted Advantage and it instructed a different garage to carry out the repairs.
It took around nine days from Mr B first contacting Advantage until he was provided with a 
courtesy car. He explains he needed a car for commuting to work, taking his children to 
school and other daily tasks. He also says it was his daughters birthday the weekend after 
the claim was reported  and this meant several journeys by car were necessary.
Mr B hired a car for three days covering the weekend of his daughters birthday. This was 
prior to receiving the courtesy car from the garage carrying out the repairs. He paid £194.98 
for the hire car and asked Advantage to refund this payment.
Advantage says there was a delay in getting Mr Bs car onsite with an approved repairer. 
This delayed the provision of a courtesy car. It says when the garage was instructed it 
expected Mr Bs vehicle to be onsite within two days. A courtesy car would then be expected 
to be provided within 24 hours of this. Advantage says a courtesy car was provided three 
days outside of its expectation. Because of this it paid £30 compensation to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He thought Advantage should pay the cost of Mr Bs hire car, plus 
interest, because of the delay in Advantage arranging for his car to be repaired. He thought 
a further £20 compensation payment was fair to acknowledge the worry he experienced.
Advantage didnt agree. It says Mr B would have been entitled to a Class A type of vehicle. 
It says the one Mr B hired was more expensive than he was entitled to receive through his 
policy. Our investigator didnt think Advantage had shown Mr B couldve paid less than he 
did  and thought the business should be responsible for refunding the cost of the hire car. 
Advantage didnt agree to this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
I have read Mr Bs policy terms to understand what is expected when a claim is made 
requiring a repair, and what this means for the provision of a courtesy car. The terms say:
Youll get a replacement car while your Car is being repaired. (see About the replacement 
car service for conditions).
And:
About the replacement car service:
The replacement car service is only available if you use your Insurers Nominated Repairer
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka.
The terms dont specify how long it should take to arrange for repairs. In this case 
Advantage says it expected Mr B to be in possession of a courtesy car within around three 
days from it instructing the garage to repair his car. I think this is a reasonable expectation. 
But in this case the first garage couldnt repair the car until much later, and the second 
garage was slower than Advantage says it would expect. 
Mr B made his claim on a Sunday. Advantage says the garage was then instructed the next 
working day. I think this was fair. On Wednesday the alternative garage was instructed. It 
wasnt until Tuesday the following week that the garage provided a courtesy car. Based on 
Advantages expectations Mr B shouldve had a car by the latest on Thursday, in the first 
week after his claim. He arranged his own car hire to cover the weekend and the following 
Monday. I think its reasonable that Advantage covers this cost. 
I think its also reasonable that Advantage compensates Mr B for the two days when he 
shouldve had a courtesy car but didnt, on Wednesday and Thursday in the week after he 
claimed. We consider £10 per day a reasonable amount to compensate for the loss of use of 
a car. So, I think a payment of £20 is fair.
I have thought about Advantages view that Mr B was entitled to a cheaper car than the one 
he hired. It has supplied a screen shot from a hire company that shows the cost of a suitable 
car for around half the price Mr B paid. The policy terms confirm a group A vehicle will be 
provided whilst repairs are being carried out by the nominated repairer. From Mr Bs invoice, 
he hired a larger vehicle than would usually be provided in these circumstances.
I have looked online to see what it would cost to hire a group A car for the same period. This 
is from the hire company Mr B used. The cost is approximately the same as Mr B paid. I 
acknowledge Advantage has shown a cheaper rate using a different company. However, 
prices can fluctuate, and Advantage hasnt shown a cheaper car was available at the time 
Mr B arranged the hire. It might have been possible for Mr B to have arranged a cheaper 
hire  but I dont think Advantage has reasonably shown this was definitely the case here. 
I have considered the impact on Mr B in not having the use of a car for commuting, driving 
his children to school as well as the birthday arrangements that required several car 
journeys. I can understand why Mr B felt stressed and anxious at this time. He also refers to 
paying for taxis whilst he was without a car. I havent seen evidence of these costs, but I 
acknowledge Mr B will have needed to make alternative transport arrangements. 
In the circumstances I think a compensation payment of £50 to acknowledge the stress and 
worry Mr B was caused is reasonable. This is to include the £20 payment for the two days 
without a courtesy car. Advantage has already paid £30 so this should be deducted from the 
payment owed.     In summary, I dont think Advantage treated Mr B fairly in the delayed provision of a 
replacement car. It should pay the cost of the hire car he arranged. It should also pay a total 
payment of £50 to compensate for the period when no replacement car was available and 
for the inconvenience and distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
- pay Mr B the cost of his hire car plus 8% simple interest from the date this was paid 
until the payment is provided - if Advantage considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and 
- pay a total of £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B was 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman