DRN-3063068
The complaint
Mr M complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have incorrectly 
recorded a claim for his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
On 2 September 2021 I wrote a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what 
I thought about that. Ive copied the relevant elements of the provisional decision below, and 
these form part of my final decision.
On 6 February 2020 Mr Ms car wouldnt start. It was collected and taken to a garage with a 
suspected battery / starter motor issue. Mr M says on 7 February 2020 his car sustained 
damage at the garage  but they denied responsibility for it. He said it was identified by two 
forensic analysts the damage which was caused by an excessive electrical current into the 
car. And, he said the garages invoice showed they had put an electrical current into the car, 
something theyd consistently denied since the damage issue came up. Mr M said the two 
independent reports showed the damage occurred when the garage had his car, so they 
were responsible for it. 
When speaking to LV, Mr M says he was initially told his claim wouldnt be met for the 
accidental damage but was then told it would be  minus the excess. Mr M said hes not 
experienced with making motor claims so thought this was reasonable. And he thought as 
liability had been established, he believed LV would get the money back from the garage.
 
Mr M then started receiving insurance renewals where the price had substantially increased. 
He found that LV hadnt attempted to get the money back from the garage and was 
concerned they were treating his claim as a fault claim. Mr M said he did some research and 
found under the regulator the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules LV had a duty of 
care to approach the liable party for costs. He said the rules say the potentially liable party 
had to reply within three months and he was beyond that period of time with LV not even 
attempting to make contact. 
Mr M said he was suffering financially in two ways  loss of excess and increase in 
premiums. He took the excess issue to court which has been resolved  but the fault issue 
which he says has led to an increase in premiums hasnt been. He said he complained in 
July 2020, but LV didnt reply within the required eight-week period, so asked us to look into 
things. While Mr Ms case has been with our service, he detailed a number of questions and 
asked LV to answer them. All of the questions were centred on the issue of fault and why LV 
hadnt tried to get the costs of the claim back, and the key point is Mr M still didnt think he 
should be held liable. He also said when he initially got in touch he wasnt claiming against 
his own insurance, he was claiming against the garages insurance. 
As part of this, we asked LV to provide their file for us to consider. During this time, LV did 
reply to all the concerns Mr M had raised. And, in summary, LV said theyd got a legal 
opinion on whether they could reclaim the costs. This opinion said it was thought unlikely 
theyd be able to reclaim the costs because they had concerns about liability, but also about 
negligence. LV said theyd have to be able to prove someone knowingly carried out the 
actions which caused the damage  something they thought was unlikely. LV also said they 
werent out of time to have tried to recover the costs, despite the rules Mr M had pointed to.
LV added Mr Ms claim was recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) as 
an electrical / mechanical failure with a claims cost associated with it theyve not been able 
to recover. LV said as they couldnt make a recovery of the costs, theyd class it as a claim 
made on his policy and his premiums would reflect that. LV said they couldnt confirm how 
another insurer would classify the claim as itd be down to their underwriting criteria.
 
CUE is a database used by most insurers the record the details of claims made. Of 
particular relevance to this is how exactly LV have recorded the claim on the system  Mr M 
believed its been recorded as a fault claim at the point of LVs response.
Mr M remained unhappy with LVs contact and Ive summarised what I consider are the key 
points relating to this complaint:
The garage is liable under the law of Bailment
Theres enough proof to show the damage happened while in their custody
LV didnt try and get the money back within the three months as they were required 
to do  so they can no longer reclaim the monies.
Mr M quoted the FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules 
8.2.6 / 8.2.7 to support his assertions about the three-month time limit
He also felt LV had broken ICOBS rule 8.2.5 which talks about acting in a customers 
best interest because no efforts were made to get the losses back
He wasnt claiming against his own insurance, he was claiming against the garages 
insurance
Our investigator considered all of Mr Ms points. She explained its not our role to decide 
liability in an incident such as Mr Ms. That can only be done by the courts. Instead she 
focused on whether she thought LV had done what they should have done. Overall she felt 
they had acted fairly, and part of her rationale for this was because the job sheet from the 
garage showed Mr Ms car was worked on between 8.17am and 8.57am, the garage had 
said the car wasnt within their own control from 10am, and the technical reports showed the 
damage happened at 3.13pm.
Mr M said this information was incorrect. He said the garage had worked on the car, and 
applied electrical current, over several days, and the car was only released several days 
later. So, Mr M said the law of Bailment still applied meaning the garage were still 
responsible. He felt had LV properly engaged with him about the claim, then he could have 
told them about this information being wrong earlier, which he says would have meant their 
legal adviser would have had a different perspective on the issue. 
Mr M also shared a letter LV had sent after our investigator issued their outcome, saying 
they werent treating the claim as a fault claim, instead theyd just recorded on CUE this was 
a mechanical / electrical failure which they couldnt recover their costs for.
Because Mr M remains unhappy, the complaints been passed to me to decide. What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms key concern is that he says LV have been negligent in pursuing the other party for a 
refund of the costs and are now outside of the time limit to do so. Because of that, he thinks 
they cant recover their costs  which is having an impact on his premiums.
The issue of liability
As our investigator explained its not our role to decide whether someone should be held 
liable or not, thats down to the courts. That means I cant directly address Mr Ms comments 
that the garage is liable under the law of Bailment, as I cant decide liability. 
But we can look at whether LV have acted fairly in how theyve determined what course of 
action to take.
Here, I can see Mr M is adamant that the damage was caused when the garage was 
working on his car. And, we asked him to provide any evidence he had to show that  his 
response was that the evidence was on file already. So, Ive looked at what weve got.
The information from the garage shows they were working on the car from 8.17am until 
8.57am  this information has been shared with Mr M alongside this provisional decision. 
Theyve said consistently the car was then moved out of their workshop into a compound 
from 10am  and the damage is recorded as happening at 3.13pm.
The garages explanation sounds plausible to me  in that theyd presumably finished doing 
what they could by 8.57am and then would likely want some space in their garage  so 
moved the car out. And this is what the job sheet shows.
I understand Mr M very strongly believes they were applying electrical charges for several 
days  but Ive just not seen that in the information Ive been provided. 
I also note LV did instruct a legal opinion on the prospect of taking the garage to court over 
the issue of liability. That legal opinion said it was unlikely theyd be able to recover any 
costs  because first theyd have to show the garage were in control of the car, and that 
there had been negligence leading to the loss. The legal opinion said they couldnt 
conclusively confirm the garage were in control of the car at the time, so as they couldnt 
establish that they didnt think there would be a reasonable prospect of success in taking the 
garage to court.
Overall then, I do think LV have taken Mr Ms arguments seriously, but I also think theyve 
acted fairly based on the information theyve been provided with  including the legal opinion 
theyve been given.ICOBS rules
Mr M has pointed to three ICOBS rules about why LV have let him down:
8.2.5  not acting in a customers best interests to get the money back
8.2.6 and 8.2.7  he says are relevant to the 90 days he believes LV had to make the 
request to the garage to get the money back
In relation to 8.2.5 I think this is fairly covered by the above section on liability  so I dont 
agree with this and think LV did what Id usually expect them to.
Ive read the remaining two rules. But, translating the rules to Mr Ms situation, they 
effectively set out the requirements on the garage (or their insurer), not LV, regarding a claim 
when its made to them. They say what the garage / their insurer would have to do within 
three months when a claim is made against them by LV. But Im looking at a complaint 
against LV  and have no authority over the garage or their insurers. 
Ive noted Mr Ms argument is that LV didnt contact the garage within those three months 
which has led to these issues. But, its not three months from the event, its three months 
from LV presenting their claim to the garage / their insurers. So, I dont think Mr M has been 
disadvantaged by this. But, even if he was, as LV have decided they didnt have liability to 
pursue the matter, which Im satisfied theyve done so fairly, then I cant say that had LV got 
in touch earlier itd have changed anything. It seems likely to me the garage would have 
always disputed being responsible for the damage, and LV would have taken the same 
actions  albeit a bit earlier  that then established they wouldnt pursue liability.
Is Mr M claiming on his own policy
Mr M has said, at one point, that he never claimed on his own policy. LV have said they 
made it clear to him that he was claiming on his own policy.
But as Mr M was adamant he wasnt claiming on his policy, we asked LV if there was an 
option to effectively withdraw from the claim, and what thatd potentially mean. LV explained 
the only way Mr M could do so would be to reimburse the full claim costs theyd paid  
currently totalling over £15,000.
If Mr M wishes to do that, then he can let us know in response. But I think its unlikely hell 
take that route, so Ive included my thoughts on this point.
All through the communication Mr M and LV have had I think its clear hes claiming on his 
own insurance policy  Ive not seen any clear request from him to not claim on his own 
policy when he initially got in touch. So, LV have acted as Id have expected by pursuing a 
claim under his own policy. And, as Ive said above, the option for Mr M to remove the claim 
from his own records would be to repay LV directly  which I think its unlikely hed want to 
do. So, overall, I dont think LV have acted unfairly in handling this claim as one on Mr Ms 
own insurance policy.Current position
On 7 April 2021 LV wrote to Mr M to say theyd recorded the claim as a mechanical / 
electrical failure. They said theyre not treating this as a fault claim but have recorded that 
theyve carried out repairs and couldnt recover their losses. 
Mr M said upon receipt of this he was confused, and said it seems were the ones who are 
refusing to acknowledge the correct status of the claim  and in light of this letter cant think 
of any reason why we wouldnt direct a change of status for the claim.
I think its helpful to explain we dont record information on CUE, thats down to insurers 
themselves, so were simply looking at what theyve recorded and whether thats fair.
In Mr Ms situation hes had an incident where the insurer have had to pay out for repairs 
and cant recover them. Theyve confirmed thats what theyve recorded on CUE. With that in 
mind, I dont think theres any reason for me to direct a change in status  as Im satisfied 
theyve recorded the information correctly.
Responses to my provisional decision
LV replied, and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr M replied to a contact from our service asking if hed read the provisional decision, and 
whether he had anything further to add as the deadline had now passed. His response was 
to say hed read the provisional decision. He didnt add any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, Ive seen no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I think LV acted fairly regarding liability, 
Ive seen nothing in ICOBS to say they should have done something differently, Mr M was 
always claiming on his own policy  and Im satisfied the claim has been correctly recorded 
on CUE.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman