DRN-3168553
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain that Personal Assurance Plc didnt refund the premiums they paid 
for a group hospital insurance plan, which they say was mis-sold. My references to 
Personal Assurance include its agents.
What happened
In February 2015 Personal Assurance visited Mr Ns workplace to talk about hospital health 
insurance. Mr N says he met Personal Assurances representative who asked him for details 
about his family and he told Personal Assurance he wasnt interested in taking out a policy 
as he had other insurance. 
Mrs and Mr N say they only realised they had a policy with Personal Assurance when it sent 
them a letter on 18 May 2021 saying their daughter would no longer be insured when she 
reached her 18th birthday. They say they didnt want or need a policy with 
Personal Assurance as theyve had the same insurance through their bank account since 
2007. And if Personal Assurance had contacted them about the policy more often they would 
have known about it and cancelled its policy before May 2021. Mr N says 
Personal Assurance told him hed previously taken out and cancelled a policy in 2011 which 
wasnt correct. Mrs and Mr N want Personal Assurance to refund all the policy premiums 
theyve paid since 2015.
Personal Assurance said:
The policy was offered to employees who work in businesses that it provides benefits 
to, the policy isnt available to the public. The sale was non-advised.
Mr N took out a hospital and death benefit plan for himself in 2011 but shortly after 
asked to cancel the plan and as he had cancelled within the first 30 days cooling off 
period all premiums were refunded to him (Mr N says that didnt happen).
In 2015 Mr N met its representative and chose to sign for a hospital plan covering 
him and his family. It sent Mr N a welcome letter to his home address with all the 
policy documents and information.
On 14 April 2021 it wrote to Mr N as he paid the premiums through his payroll and it 
had been told by his employers payroll department that his premiums were in 
arrears. On 27 April Mr N contacted it about the arrears and he sent a cheque for the 
arrears on 14 May 2021.
When Mr N contacted it later in May 2021 to cancel the policy it did as he asked but it 
had done nothing wrong and it wouldnt refund the premiums. 
When the policy was in force it would have paid the benefits, subject to the policy 
terms and conditions, even if another policy paid benefits for the same event.
Before our investigator considered the complaint she noted that the complaint may be 
outside the time limits set out in the rules we operate under and asked Personal Assurance  
whether it would consent to us looking at the complaint if the complaint was out of time. 
Personal Assurance agreed. 
Ultimately our investigator said Personal Assurance hadnt mis-sold the policy and didnt 
need to refund the premiums. She also looked at the policy terms of the other insurance that 
Mrs and Mr N held and as there was some key differences in cover she said there was no 
dual insurance.
Mrs and Mr N disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said they hadnt received 
any letters about the policy from Personal Assurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr N say the policy was mis-sold to them in February 2015 and they complained 
about the sale in May 2021. The rules we operate under say we can't look at a complaint if:
it was made more than six years after the event complained of; 
or if later three years from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, of cause for complaint
unless there are exceptional circumstances. 
As Mrs and Mr N complained about the sale of the policy more than six years after it was 
sold its possible the complaint was made outside the above time limits. But as 
Personal Assurance consented to us looking at the complaint if it was out of time I dont 
need to consider if there were any exceptional circumstances.
Having considered the full details of the complaint Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr N but 
I dont uphold the complaint. I think Personal Assurance acted reasonably in not refunding 
the premiums of the policy taken out in 2015. Ill explain why.
I note the parties disagree about what happened with a policy in 2011. But even if Mr N did 
take out and quickly cancel a policy in 2011 that doesnt affect what happened with the 2015 
policy.
Personal Assurance sold the 2015 policy on a non-advised basis which means it didnt make 
any recommendations on the suitability of the policy for Mrs and Mr N and their family.
Mrs and Mr N say they didnt need the policy as they already had the same insurance cover. 
Our investigators view detailed some of the key differences between the two policies, and 
I think there are more differences. Also this policy paid out a benefit, subject to the policy 
terms, even if Mrs and Mr N had been insured for benefit to be paid for the same 
circumstances under another policy. So I dont think this is a situation where there was dual 
insurance.
Ive seen evidence that when Personal Assurance sold the policy to Mr N in 2015 it sent him 
a letter with the policy document and information, including how to cancel the policy. Mrs and 
Mr N say they didnt get that letter. But I cant hold Personal Assurance responsible if the 
post office didnt deliver the letter as the address on the letter is the same one Mrs and Mr N 
put on their complaint form to us. So Personal Assurance sent the letter and policy 
information to the correct address. The enrolment form for the policy shows Mr N opted out 
of email contact which explains why Personal Assurance didnt send the information by 
email. So I think Personal Assurance could reasonably believe Mrs and Mr N had received the 
2015 policy information and as they hadnt contacted it to cancel the policy within the cooling 
off period it reasonably continued with the policy.
Personal Assurance didnt send any more correspondence to Mr N about the policy until it 
was told he was in arrears with premium payments in 2021. I think it could have sent Mr N 
more frequent correspondence about the policy. But I cant reasonably say the lack of more 
frequent correspondence meant Mr N had no other way to know about the policy as the 
policy premium was paid direct from Mr Ns salary. I think the premium payment deduction 
would have been shown on his payslip and that reasonably ought to have made Mrs and 
Mr N aware of the policy sooner than 2021, even if they had received no other information.
Mrs and Mr N have said they only became of aware of the policy in May 2021 when they 
received Personal Assurances letter about their daughter being removed from the policy. 
But Ive seen evidence that Mr N contacted Personal Assurance in April 2021 about arrears 
of his premium, which he then paid, so I think he was aware of the policy before May 2021.
Overall I think Personal Assurance acted fairly in not refunding the policy premiums when it 
cancelled the policy as Mrs and Mr N requested in May 2021, as I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman