DRN-4197517
The complaint
Miss Y complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) and their decision to 
decline her theft claim. Miss Y also complains about the service she received during the 
claim process.
What happened
Miss Y held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by Skyfire. This policy was purchased 
through an intermediary, who Ill refer to as F. Skyfire appointed F to administer the policy 
on their behalf and so, I will refer to any actions taken by F as if they were taken by Skyfire 
throughout the decision.
In July 2021, Miss Ys car was stolen, before being involved in a road traffic accident where 
the level of damage it sustained deemed it a total loss. So, Miss Y contacted Skyfire to make 
a claim on her insurance policy.
Skyfire instructed their specialised theft claim handlers, who Ill refer to as B, to handle the 
claim. Again, as B were acting on behalf of Skyfire, I will refer to any actions taken by B as if 
they were taken by Skyfire.
Skyfire investigated Miss Ys claim to validate it. This included arranging several 
conversations with Miss Y, as well as obtaining a police report regarding the theft. This 
police report was received in March 2022, and it stated that Miss Y had said to the police the 
car hadnt been stolen. So, there was no valid crime number attached to it.
Because of this, Skyfire didnt think they were able to indemnify the theft claim and so, they 
declined it. Miss Y was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss Y thought shed made Skyfire reasonably aware of her reasons for stating the car 
hadnt been stolen to the police. So, she didnt think it was fair for Skyfire to use her personal 
circumstances and vulnerabilities as a reason to decline the claim. Miss Y was also unhappy 
with the service Skyfire provided to her during the claim process, again considering the 
vulnerabilities shed disclosed.
Skyfire responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to 
decline the claim was a fair one, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
considering the information they had obtained during the claim process and from the police 
report. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more on this occasion. Miss Y 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the personal 
nature of the information Miss Y had disclosed, and how Miss Ys situation and 
vulnerabilities impacted her decision making during the claim process. But even so, they felt 
Skyfire had declined the claim fairly, considering the fact no crime reference number had 
been provided as Miss Y had told the police no theft had taken place. So, they didnt think 
Skyfire needed to do anything regarding this aspect of the complaint at this point in time.
But they did think Skyfire failed to update Miss Y as proactively as they wouldve expected 
during the claim process. And they were satisfied this wouldve made an already difficult time 
even more upsetting for her. So, to recognise this, our investigator recommended Skyfire 
pay Miss Y £150. 
Skyfire accepted this recommendation. But Miss Y didnt. She didnt think the £150 was 
enough, considering this wouldnt cover a months payment for the finance agreement she 
had taken out when purchasing the car. And she didnt think it was enough to recognise the 
difficulties she faced during the claim process, and how much it had impacted her life overall. 
As Miss Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss Y. I appreciate the 
significant difficulties she was facing in her personal life, which impacted the way she 
handled the claim process and I want to reassure Miss Y Ive considered this at length when 
reaching my decision.
But when thinking about Skyfires decision to decline the claim, for me to say Skyfire should 
do something differently such as overturn this decision, I first need to be satisfied theyve 
done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they acted unfairly in some 
other way. 
In this situation, its not in dispute that, at the time Skyfire took the decision to decline Miss 
Ys theft claim, Miss Y didnt have a crime reference number for the theft itself. Ive seen the 
police report Skyfire saw, which confirms that Miss Y stated the car hadnt been stolen to the 
police. While I do understand why Miss Y stated this to the police, and this decision is in no 
way intended to place any sort of blame on Miss Y for this decision, I do have to take into 
account the impact this had on the claim overall.
The terms and conditions of the policy Miss Y held defines a theft as any theft or attempted 
theft that you have reported to the police and which you have a crime reference number for. 
In this situation, I recognise Miss Y did speak to the police. But, as Ive explained above, the 
report explains Miss Y stated that no theft took place. So, no crime reference was given. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say Skyfire have acted unfairly, or outside of the terms 
and conditions, when deciding that no theft had taken place, based on the policy terms. And 
so, I dont think I can say they were unfair to decline the claim.
But I am aware that since Skyfire took this decision, and responded to Miss Ys initial 
complaint, shes now confirmed shes reported the theft to the police and obtained a crime 
reference number. And I would expect Skyfire to consider this new information against the 
terms of the policy, should Miss Y attempt to claim on the policy again.
Ive then turned to the service Skyfire provided during the claim process. I note Skyfire 
accepted our investigators recommendation that the level of service was unfair, and that a 
compensatory payment of £150 should be paid. As Skyfire accepted this recommendation, I think its fair for me to assume that both parties accept Skyfire acted unfairly here. So, I dont 
intend to discuss the merits of this in any further detail. Instead, Ive focused on what 
remains in dispute, which is what Skyfire should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss Y back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had Skyfire acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, based on the information Skyfire had available to them at the time, I think 
they would always have declined Miss Ys claim. And I do think they were fair to do so. But, 
had Skyfire acted fairly, I think they wouldve done more to keep Miss Y proactively updated, 
to ensure she was fully aware of how the claim was progressing to try and mitigate any 
concerns she may have had.
And I think by not doing so, Skyfire added to the already difficult situation Miss Y found 
herself in. Ive seen the system notes, which make clear Miss Y made Skyfire aware of her 
situation, and her vulnerabilities. So, I think Skyfire failed to keep Miss Y adequately updated 
knowing this.
And considering Miss Ys situation, I think the lack of updates wouldve added to an already 
upsetting time for her. The lack of updates led Miss Y to have to chase Skyfire herself, which 
wouldve been inconvenient. And I think this may have also impacted Miss Ys thought 
process on how best to proceed regarding obtaining a replacement car, considering her car 
involved in the accident had been deemed a total loss.
Our investigator recommended Skyfire pay Miss Y £150 to recognise the impact Ive detailed 
above. And I think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and 
what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. So, this is a payment I am directing 
Skyfire to pay.
I understand Miss Y doesnt think this £150 is enough and Ive carefully considered her 
reasons as to why. But this payment is intended to address the impact of Skyfires failure to 
keep her updated. It isnt intended to address any financial losses shes incurred, as I think 
the claim was declined fairly. So, I havent thought about the value of her monthly payments, 
nor would it be fair for me to consider these payments when considering what a fair award 
should be.
The payment also isnt intended to directly address the upset shes been caused by her 
dealings with the police, both before and during the claim process. The payment is intended 
to directly address the service Skyfire only provided to her, specifically during the claim 
process. And I think the £150 is a fair award, considering these parameters. Any complaint 
Miss Y had regarding the police and their involvement in this process would need to be 
directed to the police directly and its my understanding Miss Y has initiated this process 
separately.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ys complaint about Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss Y £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience she was caused by their 
service failures.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman