DRN-3569219
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (Novuna) asked him to pay when he returned a car to them at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr C, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). Ill therefore consider any damage against that standard when deciding whether 
charges have been applied fairly by Novuna.
I can see that Mr C wanted to provide further evidence to help me come to a decision. Hes 
explained that he was waiting for receipts from Novuna to detail the work they actually 
completed on the car when it was returned. Mr C has clearly been waiting for this information 
for some time, but I dont think its information that could help me formulate my decision. 
Thats because Novuna dont have to complete the repairs. The BVRLA guidance says they 
can choose to simply sell the car at auction. So, even if there was information that Novuna 
hadnt completed repairs that wouldnt mean they couldnt charge for damage outside of the 
wear and tear guidance.
And, having reviewed the charges theyve made for the various repairs I dont think they 
appear unreasonable. I mean no discourtesy to Mr C, but for those reasons the information 
he sought to provide would not have helped with the decision Ive had to make.
Mr C is disappointed that Novuna didnt agree to his request for an independent inspection. I 
dont think Novuna had to do that. The terms of the contract explained that the car would 
need to be returned in a good condition and the third party report they provided illustrated 
the condition of the car with photographs. I think that was sufficient to illustrate the charges 
the business sought to apply.
Novuna agreed to waive the charges for the sill, wheel cap, and number plate damage and 
Mr C accepted the charge for the damaged front bumper trim and the missing puncture 
repair kit. So, Ill not consider those any further, but I will consider the charges that are still 
disputed, and Ill use the BVRLA guidance to do so.
Front bumper
The BVRLA guidelines state, surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare
metal is now showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four
surface scratches on one panel is acceptable. 
I think the primer is visible in the photograph and the scuff is excessive. The charge is 
therefore reasonable.
Rear door left
The scratch is through the primer and therefore chargeable.
C Post Left
The BVRLA guidance says, dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable
provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
There are more than two dents and the charge is therefore reasonable.
Front doors 
The BVRLA says, chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not 
rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and eight chips of 
any forward-facing panel is permitted.
There are numerous chips, and some are over 3mm on each door. The charges have 
therefore been made fairly.
Sill extension
The panel isnt aligned correctly, and I dont think that can be considered a good return 
condition. The charge has therefore been applied fairly.
Alloy damage 
The BVRLA guidance says, any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
alloy wheel is not acceptable and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.There is damage to the spokes on the front left and rear right wheel and thats beyond 
reasonable wear and tear. The front right wheel shows scuffing in excess of 50mm and is 
therefore also beyond fair wear and tear and chargeable.
The rear bumper
Theres a scratch of greater than 25mm and thats beyond the fair wear and tear guide. I 
think Novuna were therefore fair to make a charge and to subsequently reduce it.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling on these issues I dont think Novuna 
have done anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman