DRN-3956180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  
with critical illness cover (CIC) and total and permanent disability (TPD), referred to as the 
policy  by Aviva Life Services UK Limited, referred to as the business or Aviva.  
They say Mr S had employee benefits that wouldve paid out in the event he suffered ill-
health or death, so they didnt need the policy.  
To put things right, Mr and Mrs S would like a refund of all premium and compensation for 
loss of interest and distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Avia didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
In late 2002, Mr and Mrs S were advised to take out the policy. 
At the time they were re-mortgaging on a repayment basis and borrowing an 
additional £4,000 for home improvements, on top of their existing £60,000 loan.  
It was recorded that Mr S was in fulltime employment and Mrs S was a housewife. 
The information recorded was signed off by them as being correct. 
Their objective was to ensure that their mortgage would be repaid in the event of 
death or diagnosis of a critical illness. They had no cover in place at the time.
The policy was recommended for a term of 21 years, with a £64,000 sum assured 
that would go down in line with the mortgage. In other words, the policy was 
designed to protect a repayment mortgage by mirroring the outstanding balance that 
would reduce over the same term.   
The policy schedule was also provided which made clear the nature and operation of 
the policy.  
Despite what they say about being taken advantage of, they wouldve been aware of 
how the policy worked as a result of having been recommended a similar policy two 
years earlier which they declined. 
If they felt like they didnt need the policy, they couldve cancelled it within the cooling 
off period  but they didnt.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Despite having similarities with Mr Ss employee benefits, the policy wasnt 
unsuitable.  
Although Mrs S is unhappy about being recorded as a housewife, its likely the 
adviser wouldve recorded what they were told. 
It was recorded that Mrs S had no life cover or CIC in place. Although Mr S had 
employee benefits, including death in service cover, he had no CIC. 
It was recorded in the fact find that Mr and Mrs S specifically wanted to protect their 
mortgage. They were also looking to obtain a further advance which would increase 
their mortgage borrowing to £64,000. 
Aviva recommended a joint DTA policy, which was the cheapest form of cover 
protecting a repayment mortgage with life and CIC. 
The life cover matched the mortgage and term.  
The documentation provided made clear the benefits provided. Mr and Mrs S had the 
option to cancel the policy if it wasnt what they wanted but they didnt, suggesting 
that they wanted it.  
Overall, and on balance, Mr and Mrs S were given suitable advice that met their 
needs.  
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, they made the following points:
Mr S had existing life cover in place. 
The investigator suggested that they were recommended the DTA policy because 
they requested a further advance of £4,000. If they knew they couldnt afford to repay 
the advance, why would they add a further increase of £29.48 for cover and to their 
outgoings. 
The recommendation wasnt based on sound financial advice. 
They attached information about Mr Ss employee benefits.  
They were misled and decided to take out the policy based on the way the 
information was presented to them. 
Not everything discussed was documented. 
They were made to feel foolish if they didnt take out the policy, so they did.  
The investigator having considered Mr and Mrs Ss response, wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. In summary, he said the adviser was supplied with this information. It was made 
clear in the suitability letter. He wasnt persuaded to change his mind based on the 
attachments provided.  
Mr and Mrs S wanted us to investigate whether or not the advisers mother did in fact suffer 
from a critical illness prior to him advising them, and whether others have taken out policies 
based on the same script. They also said that because their lender worked with the policy 
provider, they assumed they needed the policy.   
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs S say, Im not 
persuaded that a joint DTA policy with CIC and TPD  that matched the amount and term of 
their repayment mortgage  was unsuitable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise Mr and Mrs Ss 
strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. But its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief for the following reasons:
I note that Mr and Mrs S didnt have any mortgage cover in place, therefore there 
was a need to protect their mortgage which the policy met. 
Even if Mr S had (additional) life cover, it doesnt mean that the recommendation was 
unsuitable in respect of a repayment mortgage on a decreasing basis. 
These policies were also cheaper than a level term assurance policy and were 
considered suitable because they decreased in line with the repayment mortgage.
Despite what Mr and Mrs S say, the adviser can only advise based on the 
information available. I think its more likely than not they described Mrs S as a 
house wife, hence it was recorded as such. Im aware that she was on leave from 
work at the time and considering whether or not to get back to work. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were supplied documentation that made 
clear the nature and operation of the plan. I cant say that the information was 
unclear, unfair or misleading. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S thought that they had to take out the policy. But 
despite what they say, I cant say that they were told this or led to believe this to be 
the case by the business. I note they assumed that they needed the DTA policy 
because their lender worked closer with the insurer. Having refused to take out 
mortgage cover previously, I think they knew it wasnt compulsory for them to do so. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs S say, I dont need any further information to decide this 
case. Its not necessary for me to establish whether or not the advisers mother had 
suffered a critical illness in order to decide this case.     
I note Mr and Mrs S say that the adviser shouldve considered Mr Ss employee 
benefits when making the recommendation. But employee benefits are not generally 
regarded as adequate replacement for life cover, because those benefits arent 
guaranteed. 
It wouldve been the case that employee benefits (such as death in service benefits 
or sickness benefits) would have only been available for the duration that the life 
assured remained in that particular employment, whereas the policy would continue 
to run as long as the premiums were paid.
I appreciate that if the life assured left the employment, they could still obtain 
insurance elsewhere, but the recommended policy provided immediate cover for as 
long as the premiums were paid. 
I appreciate Mr S had a steady job, but if anything happened to him  either by way 
of death or serious illness  Mrs S might have trouble paying off the mortgage  or 
potentially vice versa. But there was also no guarantee that their financial situation 
wouldnt change over time, and at some point, they wouldnt be able to deal with the 
mortgage. 
The policy was designed to remove the necessity for the survivor to rely upon other 
sources to repay the borrowing and to ensure the retention of the family home. Im 
therefore satisfied that the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. 
I should also clarify that despite what Mr and Mrs S say about cost, a policy set up on 
a decreasing term assurance basis wouldve meant that the level of benefit wouldve 
reduced in line with the mortgage until the end of the term.  
In the event of a valid claim the policy wouldve paid out. In other words, the business has been on risk since the policy was taken out. So, in the circumstances I dont think 
theres any justification for the business to refund the premiums, and I cant say it has 
done anything wrong by refusing to do so. 
Despite the points made by Mr and Mrs S, I dont agree that the recommendation 
was unsuitable for them. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss concerns with the situation and recognise they will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman