DRN-2775221
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly placed a 
fraud marker against him on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database due to the 
fraudulent set-up of his motor insurance policy.
I understand that Mr Ss original complaint asked for a fraud marker to be removed from his 
fathers name as well as his. But during a recent conversation with our investigator Mr S 
confirmed that his fathers motor insurance policy hasnt been cancelled. So I wont consider 
that part of the complaint here.  
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Watford on 16 March 2020. He went through a 
broker to obtain the policy.
On 25 March 2020, Watford cancelled Mr Ss policy. They said it was cancelled because itd 
been fraudulently set up. They eventually refunded Mr Ss premiums. But they placed a 
fraud marker on the CUE database against him. 
Watford told Mr S that the broker he used wasnt regulated. So he understands why his 
policy was cancelled. But he complained to Watford because he felt the fraud marker on the 
CUE database was unfair. 
Watford didnt uphold his complaint. They said that theyd acted in line with their terms and 
conditions. So Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint be upheld. He felt Mr S had provided 
correct information to the broker and hadnt acted fraudulently. So he felt that the fraud 
marker should be removed from CUE.
Watford didnt agree. They said Mr S had admitted hed used an unregulated broker to 
purchase a fraudulent policy. So they felt that the fraud marker should remain.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the information provided, Im going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
My starting point is to consider whether Watford followed the terms and conditions of the 
policy. But I also need to look at whether they acted fairly and reasonably when they placed 
a fraud marker on the CUE database against Mr S. 
Its not in dispute that Watford were entitled to cancel Mr Ss policy. They cancelled it 
because itd been fraudulently set up through an unregulated broker. 
Mr S has said that as his insurance premiums were eventually returned to him, hes happy 
with this part of his complaint. So I wont comment further on this. What is in dispute is how 
Watford treated the cancellation. 
Mr S said he believed the broker he used was genuine. From what Ive seen, I dont consider 
that he had any reason to believe it wasnt. The details he provided were accurate. So Im 
not persuaded he acted negligently in the way he took out the insurance policy. 
But Watford said that they couldnt confirm that Mr Ss details were correct. They said this 
was because: he chose to illegally obtain his policy. He is complicit in an illegal act. 
Therefore the Fraud marker should remain and provide other insurance providers the 
opportunity to assess the risk correctly.
I could understand Watfords position if there was evidence that Mr S had knowingly used 
the unregulated broker. But nothing Ive seen suggests that he did.
Im satisfied that Mr S provided the unregulated broker with all the correct information. And 
that he had no way of knowing or checking that this information had been relayed incorrectly 
to Watford. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Watford to remove the record of 
avoidance.   
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following: 
Remove any negative marker against Mr Ss record on any insurance fraud register 
or database. 
Record the cancellation of Mr Ss policy as a customer cancellation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to take the actions listed in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman