DRN-3458093
The complaint
Mr H complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurances (UKI) 
handling of a home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr H insures a property with UKI. The property was damaged due to subsidence and he 
made a claim on the policy several years ago and the claim has been ongoing since then. 
UKIs accepted cover for the claim, and been carrying out repair and reinstatement works at 
the property. Mr H made a complaint about various matters relating to the way the claim was 
handled and the works carried out.
In its response to his complaint, UKI rejected the majority of the points raised by Mr H. It did 
acknowledge that there were aspects where the service he received fell below the required 
standard and agreed to pay £100 compensation.
Mr H referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that, while UKIs 
approach to some matters had been reasonable, there were others where it hadnt acted 
fairly. She recommended that as well as putting things right for those specific points, UKI 
should pay a further £200 compensation, making £300 in total. 
UKI didnt accept our investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint covers a lot of different, unrelated points, so Ill deal with each of these in 
turn. There were elements of the complaint which our investigator thought shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr H hasnt objected to her conclusions on these points, and UKI hasnt commented 
on these. Having reviewed the evidence available to me, Im in agreement with our 
investigators opinion, so Ill cover these briefly.
Return of items in storage
From what I have available, it appears that discussions around the return of Mr Hs car from 
storage was arranged between Mr H and the storage company directly. UKI suggested this 
would be the best way to arrange this. Im satisfied that UKI acted reasonably here.
Outstanding repair and reinstatement works
Im only considering the complaints made about outstanding works up to the point that UKI 
issued its final response to the complaint. Im aware that at that point, there were works 
which still needed to be completed and UKI had communicated how it intended to proceed 
with these. Im not persuaded that there were any unreasonable delays around these, or any 
avoidable issues with how this was communicated to Mr H.
Im aware that the outstanding works are the subject of a further complaint from Mr H to UKI, 
and potentially to our service. I wont comment further here.
Garage doors
Mr H raised concerns about the garage doors which had been installed as part of the works. 
He said they didnt lock. UKI spoke to the manufacturers and confirmed they were lockable. 
Mr H was informed that if he could provide alternative evidence, UKI would look into this. I 
cant see that he did so. Mr H also said a motor needed to be installed. UKIs position was 
that this would be private works, not covered by the claim.
Our investigator concluded that UKIs response to these points was reasonable. I agree. I 
havent seen any evidence from Mr H suggesting there was an issue with the specification or 
fitting of the garage doors which meant they couldnt be locked if following the 
manufacturers instructions. Theres also no requirement on UKI to fit a motor to the doors, 
and so Mr Hs desire to do so would be something he would need to arrange and fund 
himself.
Allegations of blackmail
Mr H says that UKIs contractor, who was carrying out both the reinstatement works and 
additional works which werent covered by the claim, effectively blackmailed him by 
demanding payments in order for the claim works to continue. 
From the evidence available to me, the contractor was in contact with Mr H about the 
process of the works, and outlining the amounts due for the costs which werent being 
covered by UKI. I cant agree that the conduct of the contractor amounted to, or could be 
considered, blackmail or threats.
Data protection breaches and illegal recording
Mr H was concerned that phone calls hed made with the contractor had been recorded and 
shared with UKI. 
UKIs position was that the contractor was working on its behalf and so it was the data 
controller for the calls in question. It also said there was no legal it for Mr H to be told the 
specific calls were being recorded. From what I can see, this seems to be the case. Theres 
a general duty to inform parties that calls may be recorded, and the policy terms and 
conditions do state this. 
Conduct of UKIs representative
Mr H was unhappy that during a phone call, the UKI representative laughed at him. UKI 
acknowledged this would have been upsetting but that the representative had responded to 
something Mr H had said. This was one of the reasons given for UKI paying the £100 
compensation to Mr H.
We havent been provided with the phone call in question. Its accepted that the 
representative did laugh during the call, and UKI has acknowledged this would have been 
distressing for Mr H, and paid compensation for this. Its also said it provided feedback to the 
representative. Im satisfied it gave a reasonable response to this point.
Having addressed these matters, Ill now go on to consider the parts of the complaint our 
investigator should be upheld and which UKI didnt agree with.Security at the property
Mr H says that the contractor didnt properly secure the property, and that as a result items 
were stolen from the garden. UKI says that the contractor installed temporary fencing and 
storage was arranged for Mr H to secure any items he wanted to. Its said he can submit a 
claim on the policy for the items stolen which would be considered in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
It was our investigators view that there were flaws in the security put in place at the 
property. In particular, she felt that the positioning of a portable toilet at the property left a 
gap through which access could be gained to the garden. UKI has suggested that the toilet 
was originally placed in a position whereby it prevented access to the garden but was then 
moved by Mr H.
In support of his position, Mr H has sent us photos and videos showing the position of the 
portable toilet, and theres no dispute that its position in these would allow access to the 
garden. UKIs position would therefore seem to be that Mr H has moved this prior to taking 
the photos and video. It hasnt given any explanation for how hed have been able to do this, 
or why hed have elected to do so. There arent any photos of the position UKI says it was 
originally placed in. 
On balance, Im therefore minded to accept Mr Hs evidence here that the fencing and 
portable toilet was positioned in such a way as to allow unauthorised access to the garden. I 
can appreciate that this would have caused distress to Mr H, and this is apparent by the fact 
he took photos and video which indicate his dissatisfaction with what happened.
It seems to have been accepted that any claim for the theft will need to be submitted on the 
policy, so I wont be commenting on whether UKI should be making a settlement for those 
items.
Hallway tiling
As part of the repairs, the tiled kitchen floor was replaced (matters relating to the kitchen 
tiling are considered below). The pre-loss layout had the kitchen tiles extending for a few 
inches beyond the door. In what it termed a gesture of goodwill UKI (through its contractor) 
agreed to use tiles which were already in Mr Hs possession of the same type as in the 
hallway to be used mean the join between the two types of tiles was in line with the door.
Mr Hs complaint about whats happened here focuses on two points. The first is the quality 
of the work done to install these tiles. The second is that the use of these tiles was intended 
to be temporary, with UKI replacing them permanently and also replacing the tiles he held for 
his own use.
With regards to the first point, I do agree that the tiles havent been fitted to an adequate 
standard. The photos Ive seen suggest that they arent level, with a noticeable lip between 
tiles. Even though this was as gesture of goodwill, it seems to me that the placing of these 
tiles was part of the claim  the area theyre placed on was the subject of repairs by the 
removal of the original floor. The gesture of goodwill element seems to be that theyve used 
hallway tiles rather than kitchen tiles. Im satisfied that whatever tiles were used, UKI is liable 
for a lasting and effective repair. Having uneven tiles is not an effective repair.
With regards to the second point, I do think the evidence tends to suggest that the use of the 
tiles already in Mr Hs possession was intended as a temporary measure. Mr H has provided 
evidence to us of him sending details of the tiles to the contractor, which suggests to me that 
he intended the contractor to source new tiles to complete the works. Mr H has also said that he intended to use the tiles he already had to replace other broken 
tiles already in the hallway. I think its reasonable therefore that UKI cover the cost of 
replacing these tiles, as well as the cost of replacing and properly levelling the tiles which 
were installed temporarily.
To put things right here, UKI needs to replace and properly level the tiles it installed as part 
of the gesture of goodwill, to ensure that a consistent level and finish is achieved. It also 
needs to replace the two tiles that were used by the contractor to carry out the ineffective 
repair.
Kitchen tiling
Mr H was sent, and has paid, an invoice which included a £710 surcharge for kitchen tiles. 
UKIs position is that this was due because Mr H had been asked to choose tiles for the 
kitchen and it would pay a maximum of £50 (excluding VAT) per square metre. Its accepted 
that Mr H agreed to pay any amount in excess of this.
UKI says that the tiles chosen by Mr H had a retail price of more than £85 per square metre. 
Mr H says the retail price was less than £50 per square metre, and has sent us a link to the 
retailers website confirming this. 
Our investigator thought UKI should provide a detailed breakdown of the costs to show how 
the additional amount had been reached. My concern was that this wouldnt resolve this 
point and may lead to further dispute about the costs. I think its important that I make a 
finding on whether the additional costs could be fairly charged to Mr H. 
Ive explained to both parties that I was minded to ask UKI to repay the £710, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of Mr H having paid it to the date of settlement. Mr H agreed 
with this, but UKI didnt.
UKI says that replacing the existing tiles could have been done using tiles costing £11.99 per 
square metre, and provided me with evidence of this. UKI agreed to cover costs up to £50 
per square metre. Thats my starting point here, not what a like for like replacement would 
have cost. UKI could have placed a limit of £11.99 per square metre, but didnt do so. Whats 
relevant here is whether the tiles chosen by Mr H did cost more than £50 per square metre. 
UKI relies on a quotation, which it says was based on a retail price of the chosen tiles of 
£88.78 per square metre. It hasnt provided any evidence showing this retail price, either 
now or at the time of them being purchased. The quotation referred to doesnt give a rate or 
quantity of tiles required to reach the total cost. The suggested cost of £88.78 per square 
metre isnt shown in the document. What I do have is both current and historical links 
suggesting that the retail price was less than £50 per square metre. A link to the retailers 
website indicates that this is the case now. More significantly, however, Ive also been able 
to view archived versions of this link, and this suggests that at the relevant time, the costs 
were less than now. 
While UKIs contractor says it received a discount on the tiles, taking it to less than £50.00 
per square metre, I note that the amount the contractor says it paid after it obtained a 
discount matches the quoted retail price on the archived link to the retailers website. This, 
by UKIs evidence, amounts to a discount of over £50 per square metre from the tile retailer, 
who the contractor hadnt previously purchased from. In any case, the evidence available to 
me leads me to conclude that Mr H chose tiles which he fairly concluded had a retail price of 
less than £50 per square metre. This is what UKI had said it would cover.
UKI makes two further arguments about why it should fairly be allowed to charge this amount. The first is that Mr H agreed to it and paid the costs. Im not persuaded this is 
relevant here. The issue Im addressing is whether it was fair for Mr H to be asked to pay it. 
If he agreed to do so, and did pay it, but it wasnt reasonable to ask him to do so, then the 
reasonable conclusion is that UKI should refund this.
UKI also says that Mr H acted unreasonably by contacting the tile supplier and indicating he 
worked for the contractor, in order to obtain a copy of the invoice for the amount paid by the 
contractor. Again, this isnt relevant to my considerations here. What Im looking at is 
whether its been demonstrated that retail price of the tiles was more than £50 per square 
metre. What Mr H did or didnt do in order to establish the amounts paid by the contractor 
isnt relevant to that question.
On balance, Im not persuaded that UKIs shown that the £710 for the additional tiling was 
charged reasonably.
I require UKI to repay the £710 paid by Mr H. It must also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per year from the date Mr H paid the contractor to the date of settlement.
Damaged garden items
Mr H has complained that a garden table and arbour have rotted due to being left on wet 
grass for extended periods during the repairs. Our investigator agreed that the deterioration 
could be attributed to the actions of UKIs contractor and so it should be liable for the 
replacement costs. UKI disagreed, saying these were items intended for outdoor use so it 
shouldnt be liable for the damage. It also said that storage was available on site and could 
have been used for these items.
While its accepted that these items are outdoor furniture, theyd ordinarily be placed on 
concrete or other hard standing. For an extended period during the repairs, they were kept 
on the grass and so moisture from there has evidently caused the wood to rot. 
I do agree that its fair to hold UKI liable for this, as it would seem that keeping them on the 
grass was a decision taken by its appointed contractor. If theyd been kept on hard standing 
as they should have been, then the damage likely wouldnt have occurred. I also cant agree 
that they should have been stored during the works. 
I think its fair for Mr H to have assumed that items outside which would otherwise have been 
ok if left in situ (ie on hard standing) didnt need storing. Im also aware that the storage 
referred to by UKI as being available was for specific, high value items which were at the 
property and had to be moved in order to effect the repairs. Im not persuaded its 
reasonable to expect this garden furniture to have been stored in the same place.
Compensation
Ive therefore concluded that there were aspects of the matters complained about which 
could have been dealt with better. UKI unreasonably required payment for additional tiling, 
the property wasnt properly secured, the garden furniture was damaged and the 
representative laughed during a phone call. 
All of these matters would have caused Mr H distress and inconvenience. Hed have been 
concerned about receiving (and paying) unnecessary invoices, the property not being secure 
allowing unauthorised access to the garden and been upset by the conduct of UKIs 
representative on the phone. 
I dont think the £100 compensation paid so far by UKI properly recognises this. I think that £300 in total, so an additional £200, is a better reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr H by these issues. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance must:
Replace the temporary tiling with a consistent and level finish.
Replace the tiles given to the contractor by Mr H to carry out the temporary works.
Refund the £710 paid by Mr H for the additional kitchen tiling costs, as well as 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date Mr H paid this to the date of settlement.
Pay an additional £200 compensation, making £300 in total. UKI must pay this 
amount within 28 days of us telling it Mr H has accepted our decision. If it doesnt 
then it must pay 8% simple interest on this amount from that date to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman