DRN-4014432
The complaint
Mr N has complained about a buy-to-let mortgage he held with Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Birmingham Midshires).
What happened
I wont set out the full background to this complaint as it is extensive and goes back many 
years, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has been said and 
provided.
There has been previous complaints and litigation, culminating in the property being taken 
into possession and sold in 2022.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 which set out my thoughts on which parts of 
this complaint we should consider, and also whether or not I thought the complaint about the 
parts we should consider should be upheld. 
Both sides have had an opportunity to comment on my provisional thoughts, and a few days 
ago I issued my decision setting out which parts of this complaint we should consider. I now 
issue this decision explaining whether or not I uphold the remaining part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023, my findings  about the merits of the part of 
the complaint well be considering - said:
The property was taken into possession and sold. Mr N has complained that he is being 
pursued for the shortfall in the mortgage repayment, as the property sold for less than the 
amount owed.
As Ive explained, Im not considering a complaint about whether the property should have 
been repossessed or whether there was a valid debt outstanding. That means, my starting 
point here is that because the property was sold for less than the amount owed, Mr N owes 
the shortfall sum, and therefore that sum isnt being falsely claimed.
Mr N has said hes received threatening demands from a debt collection agent maliciously 
and falsely claiming the shortfall sum.
Its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its 
open to Mr N to instruct a suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for him. That 
would have to be at his expense, though if an error were found to his financial detriment he 
could include any reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh complaint that followed. But as 
things stand, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland has mis-managed his account. 
Having considered the letters Mr N has made reference to, I dont agree that they are 
malicious. They contain factual statements about the debt and ask Mr N to make contact 
so matters could be discussed. That is entirely what I would expect in this situation.
I appreciate that hearing about the shortfall debt was unwelcome, but Bank of Scotland 
hasnt done anything wrong in requiring that to be paid, or in instructing a debt collection 
agent. I would suggest that Mr N speaks to someone qualified to give him free debt advice 
about this - such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. We can provide Mr N with contact 
details for those agencies, if hed like us to do so.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Bank of Scotland is allowed to pursue the 
shortfall debt, and didnt act inappropriately when it appointed the debt collection agent to 
contact Mr N about it.
Mr N has also commented on an email he received from Bank of Scotlands solicitor in 
June 2022 in which it said it had been instructed to close its file and any further 
correspondence should be sent to the bank directly. It is unclear what Mr N feels Bank of 
Scotland did incorrectly here as by then the property had been sold and so the solicitors 
role in the process had come to an end. I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland to keep its 
solicitor instructed in these circumstances.
Ive considered everything Mr N has said and provided about what has happened since the 
property was taken into possession and sold and I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. For the reasons given I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr N responded to my provisional findings but everything he said related to the points Id 
said I wouldnt be considering. He didnt raise any new points about this issue.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings on this point.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman