DRN-4040331
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold 
Service and Platinum accounts that were sold sometime prior to September 2001 and 
August 2008 respectively.
Mr J says that he was sold the Gold Service account on the basis that he needed it to get a 
loan.
Mr J has also complained that after hed received annual eligibility statements, hed written 
to Lloyds on three separate occasions (twice in 2019 and once in 2020) but he says all of his 
letters were ignored.
What happened
One of our ombudsmen issued a decision saying that our service is unable to consider Mr
Js complaint about the sale of the Platinum account. Now that an ombudsmans decision
has been made, we are unable to address that aspect of Mr Js complaint any further.
One of our adjudicators then assessed Mr Js complaint about the sale of the Gold Service
account and his concerns about writing to Lloyds and Lloyds not responding, and they didnt
uphold the complaint.
I then issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2023, whereby I explained that I was not 
minded to say the Gold Service account had been mis-sold, but I did think that Lloyds should 
pay Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused in not responding to the letters that 
Mr J had sent Lloyds.
I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it forms a part of this 
decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website and Ive used that to help decide this complaint.
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is
incomplete, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have
happened, based on everything that is available. This means that I cant just consider 
Mr Js recollection of events on their own  as Mr J seems to suggest our service 
should do. Instead, I need to consider everything that Mr J has said and provided, 
and weigh that up with all of the other evidence that is available.
And having considered everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in 
part. I will explain why.
Sale of the Gold Service account
Mr J has said that the account was mis-sold as Lloyds made it clear that the only way 
he could get a loan was by agreeing to upgrade his account to a Gold Service 
packaged account.
Due to how long ago the sale took place, Lloyds doesnt know when exactly Mr J 
upgraded his account to a Gold Service account. Lloyds has provided statements 
going back to 20 August 2001 (showing the account as a Gold Service account). It 
also has records that Mr J had a Gold Service loan (which would only have been 
available if he had a Gold Service account) on 26 January 2001. So its clear that he 
has held the Gold Service account since at least 26 January 2001.
In January 2001 the Gold Service account cost £8 per month and provided benefits 
such as a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with preferential interest rates on 
overdrawn balances above that amount, up to the agreed limit. It also provided other 
benefits such as preferential interest rates on loans as well.
So the evidence suggests that Mr J may well have taken out a loan around the same 
time as the Gold Service account was sold. But, when considering all of the 
evidence, I think its more likely that Mr J agreed to the Gold Service account 
because he wanted to get a lower rate of interest on the loan and his overdraft rather 
than because he thought he had to get the Gold Service account to get a loan.
I say this because, as outlined above, there is evidence Mr J took out a Gold Service 
loan in 2001. And the only way he couldve got that particular loan rate was by having 
the Gold Service account. Furthermore, I can also see that in August 2001, Mr Js 
account was operating consistently within an overdraft - with the balance often going 
up to and occasionally beyond £2,300 overdrawn. And there were no unarranged 
overdraft fees being applied to the account  suggesting that Mr Js account was 
operating within an agreed limit. There is some evidence, albeit from 2002, that 
shows Mr J had an arranged overdraft of £2,700  and it looks like there was a 
similar arranged overdraft in place in late 2001. Therefore, I think theres a strong 
possibility that Mr J also agreed to the account because of the preferential interest 
rates on the overdraft too.
Finally, I note that when Mr J first complained to Lloyds he said: 
It was recommended to me on the understanding it would provide me with access to 
loan and overdraft facilities/rates that would not be available to me with the account I 
held. 
So even Mr Js initial testimony suggests he agreed to upgrade his account to the 
Gold Service account specifically because of the savings that he could get by having 
it. Therefore, I dont think its likely that Lloyds sold the account to Mr J on the basis 
that it was his only option to get a loan.
Based on what we know about Lloyds sales processes at the time, I think the 
account was likely to have been sold on an advised basis. This meant Lloyds had to 
check that the account overall was a good fit for Mr Js circumstances.
Mr J has said that he didnt have a need for the insurance benefits. But, as the 
adjudicator explained, the account was sold as a package. This meant Mr J couldnt 
pick and choose what it came with. This also means its fairly common that an account holder wont necessarily need all of the features that it comes with all of the 
time. However, even if I concluded that Mr J had no need for any of the insurance 
benefits, as I think he most likely agreed to the account for the banking benefits 
(which he was likely able to benefit from at the time), overall, I think Lloydss 
recommendation at the time was not unreasonable.
As well as making sure the account was appropriate for Mr Js circumstances, Lloyds 
also had to provide Mr J with important information about the account, so that he 
understood what he was agreeing to.
Given that Mr J recalls being told about the preferential interest rates on loans and
overdrafts during the sale, he was clearly given some information about the account 
features when it was sold to him.
Due to the lack of evidence that is now available, I cant be sure if Mr J was given all 
of the important information about the account that he shouldve been given. 
However, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had he been given even more information about it. I say this 
as it seems he had little interest in the insurance benefits at the time, so I think he 
wouldve still agreed to the account (bearing in mind he could not opt out of having 
the insurance benefits included with it) even if hed been given more information 
about the insurance benefits.
So taking everything into account, I dont think the Gold Service account was mis-
sold. Finally, I note that Mr J says that over the years he had the account, the cost of 
the account has exceeded any benefits he mayve received as a result of having the 
account. But that doesnt mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to him when it 
did. Of course, if it was the case that Mr J later felt that he wasnt getting much 
benefit from the preferential interest rates on loans and overdrafts, it wouldve been 
up to him to change his account. This is the case especially as Lloyds was under no 
obligation to check whether Mr J continued to get good value for money from the 
account.
Writing to Lloyds
Mr J says he wrote to Lloyds on 7 August 2019, 22 October 2019 and 23 November 
2020 asking Lloyds to advise him on what account he could get instead, as he didnt 
need the insurance benefits on his Platinum account.
Based on what I have seen, Ive no reason to doubt Mr J that he wrote these letters. 
And it appears that he sent his letters to the address provided by Lloyds on the 
Annual Eligibility Statements.
Overall, I think it was unreasonable that Lloyds didnt respond to Mr J. I recognise 
that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr J  after all, he was invited by Lloyds to get 
in contact if he didnt think the account benefits were suitable for him, and when he 
did, it seems that Lloyds ignored him. As such, I think that Lloyds should pay Mr J 
compensation for the frustration and inconvenience Mr J experienced by having to 
keep contacting Lloyds about his account.
I have considered whether a refund of account fees from 7 August 2019 is also 
warranted, but in the circumstances, I dont think it is.
I say this because in the letters that Mr J sent, he said he didnt need the insurance 
benefits and asked Lloyds to advise him on alternative accounts. He did not however, instruct Lloyds to actually change his Platinum account to another specific account. 
So I cant reasonably say that Lloyds failure to respond to Mr Js letters amounts to it 
failing to action a specific instruction to downgrade the account. Im also mindful that 
if it was the case that Mr J didnt get a response from Lloyds, there was nothing 
preventing him from going to Lloydss website, calling Lloyds, or going to a branch to 
see what other accounts were available - if it was the case that he didnt want to keep 
paying for his account anymore.
Mr J has also said that he was messed around by Lloyds when he eventually tried to
downgrade his account to another account. Mr J has explained that he was told to go 
to a branch to change his account. But when he went to a branch, he was told to call 
up to change his account. And when Mr J called up to downgrade his account, he 
was then told to change his account online  which I understand he did so on 11 
October 2021. Therefore, I think the frustration Mr J faced when trying to downgrade 
the account adds to the argument that an award for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted in this case.
Overall, having carefully considered everything that both parties have provided, I 
currently think £100 is a suitable amount of compensation that Lloyds should pay Mr 
J.
Putting matters right
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I currently think that Lloyds should pay Mr J 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced when trying to contact 
Lloyds and when trying to change his account.
Both Lloyds and Mr J responded. Lloyds accepted the findings of the provisional decision. 
Mr J did not. In summary Mr J said:
He was frustrated as he has provided testimony about the sale, whereas Lloyds isnt 
even able to say when exactly the account was sold.
He confirms that the only way he could obtain the loan in question was to have a 
packaged account.
Mr J says he should not be penalised for not mentioning when he originally 
complained that he was also told that if he tried to apply for a loan whilst he held a 
fee-free account he would get a black mark against his name and so that was why he 
agreed to the packaged account.
He says the account wasnt suitable.
Mr J agrees that he was given some information about the account. He says the 
issue isnt about the amount of information he was given, but is about him not being 
given a choice of applying for a loan on his existing fee-free account.
Mr J agrees that Lloyds has been unreasonable, and says hes annoyed that Lloyds 
are able to fail to respond to his letters without consequence due to a technicality 
based on how his letters were worded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including Mr Js response to the provisional decision, I still 
think that the outcome I reached was reasonable in the circumstances.Whilst I recognise Mr Js frustrations, I would like to emphasise that when deciding what was 
most likely to have happened, I must base my decision on the evidence that is available. 
And as pointed out in my provisional decision, the reasons why Mr J says that the account 
was sold to him i.e. the package account was presented as his only option to get any loan, 
changed from what hed originally said prior to Lloyds final response letter i.e. the package 
account was his only option to obtain better rates on loans and overdrafts (which it was). 
Although Mr J downplays this change in testimony, I think it is important in deciding the 
outcome on this complaint, because it means Im not able to place as much weight on his 
testimony as I perhaps wouldve if his testimony had remained consistent. And so, when 
weighing everything up, I think its just as likely (if not more so) that he did agree to the 
account for the original reasons he gave i.e. to secure better rates on a loan and his 
overdraft  rather than because he thought he had no choice in the matter. And so Im 
unable to conclude, albeit on balance, that the Gold account was mis-sold.
Finally, Mr J says that Lloyds are being allowed to get away with ignoring his letters on a 
technicality. However, I dont think that is the case. In the letters in question, Mr J does not 
instruct Lloyds to change his account to a specific account. He only asked for advice about 
what other accounts were available. And whilst I agree that Lloyds shouldve responded to 
Mr J, at the same time, if Mr J didnt get a response but didnt want to keep paying the 
monthly account fee, there was nothing preventing him from mitigating his loss by simply 
changing the account himself. Afterall, Mr J wouldve been able to quickly find out what other 
accounts were available by visiting Lloydss website, or if that was not possible, by visiting a 
branch.
As such, whilst I dont think a refund of account fees is warranted, I continue to think that 
Lloyds should pay Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not responding to 
his letters and for the difficulties he experienced when he did eventually try and change his 
account.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr J £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced when trying to contact Lloyds and when trying to change his 
account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right, in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman