DRN-4142949
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG (Helvetia) has settled his claim about his faulty sofa.
Any references to Helvetia include its agents.  
What happened
Mr L bought a new sofa, chair, and footstool for his home. At the same time he purchased 
insurance for the sofa. 
Mr L says he contacted Helvetia because the chair was faulty. So on 3 February a technician 
visited to examine the chair and concluded there was a manufacturing fault. 
A week later Mr L says he received confirmation the armchair had been discontinued and so 
Helvetia offered reselection credit for the chair of approximately £500. 
Mr L wasnt happy so complained. He wanted a replacement armchair that matched the 
other pieces of furniture. Mr L says there is nothing in the contract of insurance that says 
when buying three items together that theyre insured separately. And now through no fault 
of their own they are unable to have matching items. Mr L also says reselection credit 
doesnt help since theyre unable to find a matching chair. 
Helvetia said its technician found the armchair did have a manufacturing fault and so was 
covered under the policy. But since the sofa and footstool are in full working order they cant 
be replaced under the terms of the policy. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied and so he referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for him and upheld the complaint. She said she agreed with Helvetia that 
only the chair was faulty but because the chair was part of a matching set the insurer should 
pay 50% of the cost of replacing the footstool and sofa. This is compensation for the loss of 
the matching set. Our investigator said it wasnt fair that since the chair had been 
discontinued Mr L would end up with a three-piece suite that didnt match, or no chair at all. 
So a fair way to settle the claim would be for the insurer to contribute 50% of the cost of the 
remaining pieces of the set. 
Mr L accepted the investigators outcome. He said he was disappointed the insurer wasnt 
paying for the whole suite but felt the outcome was a fair compromise. Helvetia didnt agree 
with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. And so it has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the policy it confirms it provides cover for accidental stains, accidental damage, and 
structural damage. In order for a claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show 
the damage theyre claiming for is covered by the policy. The claim for Mr Ls armchair was 
accepted by Helvetia as faulty and it agreed that it should be paid. 
Only the armchair was faulty. Theres no cover for matching sets or consequential loss of 
any kind in the policy. So I can see why Helvetia only settled the claim for the armchair as 
thats what the policy provides cover for. And I cant say Helvetia did anything wrong in 
resolving the claim in this way. 
Mr L believes Helvetia should meet the cost of replacing the whole suite since the armchair 
cant be replaced on a like for like basis. But the policy says Mr is silent on the issue of 
matching sets. But I dont think Helvetia has considered this part of the claim fairly. 
Mr L is unable to replace the armchair as its been discontinued, and he is unable to replace 
the whole suite since the settlement doesnt cover the whole set. So I think Helvetia should 
treat the whole suite as matching. Without replacing all the parts there will be a loss of this 
match. So I think it would be reasonable for Helvetia to pay fair compensation for the loss of 
match. 
However I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Helvetia to pay the full cost of replacing 
the sofa and footstool given they havent been damaged. It isnt strictly covered by the policy 
terms. So Ive thought about what would be a fair and reasonable compromise for both 
parties. I think the fair outcome for this complaint would be for Helvetia to pay 50% of the 
cost of replacing the sofa and footstool. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above Helvetia need to do the following;
Contribute 50% of the cost towards the replacement of the undamaged footstool and 
sofa 
To be clear in settling Mr Ls claim Helvetia will need to settle the claim in respect of the 
armchair as per the terms of the policy. And Helvetia will carry 100% of the cost of that. 
Helvetia will also need to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the suite; 
the sofa and the footstool. Thats in line with our usual approach where repairs or 
replacements cant be made to match the undamaged parts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding this complaint and direct Helvetia 
Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG to do what Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman