DRN-3129126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Covea Insurance PLC (Covea) didnt process their claim 
under their contents insurance policy for accidental damage to a laptop. The policy is in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs A throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs A had contents insurance with Covea, purchased through a broker. She made a claim 
under her policy after accidental damage to a laptop. Covea said it couldnt process her 
claim because the broker had cancelled the policy. Mrs A complained to both the broker and 
Covea. She said she made her claim during the renewal period, so she didnt think it was fair 
to decline it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that as Mrs A hadnt paid her premium, 
Covea was entitled to reject the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs A didnt agree. She thought greater weight had been placed on Coveas side of things, 
so she asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand this is not the outcome Mrs A had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold 
her complaint. 
I should point out, firstly, that I also considered Mrs As complaint about the broker. While I 
wont be addressing that complaint here, the outcome does factor in my consideration of this 
complaint. For clarity, I didnt think the broker had done anything wrong when it cancelled 
Mrs As policy. That was because it didnt receive any payment for the policy renewal, and it 
followed the correct steps to notify Mrs A of the resulting cancellation.
Turning to this complaint, I see that Covea told Mrs A it couldnt consider her claim because 
the broker cancelled the policy. Covea explained that as no payments had been made at all 
for the renewal, the policy was cancelled right from the start of the renewal. That meant Mrs 
A didnt have any cover in place once her previous policy year ended in November 2020. 
Ive looked at the policy, which says:
5. Keeping to this policy
Your insurer will only give the cover described in this policy if:
anyone claiming cover has kept to all its terms, conditions and endorsements
Under the heading 11. Cancelling your policy, the general conditions state:
Your insurerhas the right to cancel your policyWhere we have been unable to collect a 
premium payment. 
I think its clear that Mrs A would only receive cover if she paid for the policy. As she didnt 
make any payments towards the new policy, I think its reasonable that Covea cancelled it 
from the start of the new policy year. That means, when Mrs A claimed under the policy later 
the following month, there wasn't a valid policy in place for Covea to consider her claim 
under. 
Mrs A says she made her claim during the policy renewal window, so Covea shouldve 
considered it under the policy. I cant agree. Thats because the broker issued the policy 
renewal documents before the renewal date of 14 November. Payment was due two weeks 
later after the cooling off (renewal) period. The broker made two attempts to take payment 
and sent Mrs A the appropriate reminder letters before cancelling the policy five weeks after 
the renewal date. Therefore, I cant agree that Mrs A made a claim within the renewal 
window. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there wasnt a valid policy under which Covea could consider Mrs 
As claim for accidental damage. Therefore, I wont be making any requirement of Covea.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman