DRN-4134340
The complaint
Mrs S complained, in her capacity as the appointed sole executor of the estate of Ms R, that 
St James's Place UK plc (SJP) delayed the surrender of an investment bond held within 
Ms Rs estate, resulting in loss to the estate. She was also unhappy about the poor service 
provided to her and to the solicitor she instructed to assist her with probate matters. 
  
She didnt feel that the redress SJP offered was adequate to reflect everything that 
happened. 
What happened
Ms R died in 2018 and Mrs S is her appointed executor, with authority to bring a complaint 
on behalf of the estate. 
Ms Rs estate included an investment bond with SJP and SJP has admitted it was 
responsible for delay in the surrender of the bond. 
By way of background, Ive included here a brief timeline of events:
22 November 2018 Mrs S solicitor wrote to SJP advising he was instructed to act for 
Ms Rs executors and asking for confirmation of the value of all assets held within the estate 
and details of SJPs requirements for dealing with the investments once probate was 
granted.  
3 December 2018 SJP replied and provided information about assets held within the 
estate, including a bond which it said would need to be transferred to the estate executors. 
SJP said it would need the Grant of Probate to do this. SJP provided the bond valuation at 
date of death. It explained what would need to happen to give effect in due course to the 
executors wishes according to whether the bond was to be sold, transferred into another 
name or part sold and part transferred to a beneficiary.
21 March 2019 Mrs S solicitor sent SJP an official copy of the recently issued Grant 
of Probate which appointed Mrs S as the sole executor.
28 March 2019  SJP confirmed ownership of the bond was transferred to Mrs S in her 
capacity as the executor of Ms Rs estate. 
18 July 2019 SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor asking whether the bond 
could be surrendered, and if so, if SJP would confirm the value and provide the necessary 
forms. 
19 July 2019 SJP responded saying it needed to see a LOA from Mrs S before it 
could disclose further information about the bond to the solicitor. It provided a contact phone 
number and invited the solicitor to get in touch if there were any questions or other matters 
arising.
24 July 2019 SJP received a letter back from Mrs S solicitor querying the need for 
Mrs S authority to release information when it had previously provided a bond valuation and 
the solicitors were also named on the Grant of Probate. The solicitor didnt consider a LOA 
was necessary and said this would incur additional costs for the estate.
10 October 2019 SJP phoned Mrs S solicitor in order to explain why authority was 
needed but was told the solicitor was not available and that they would call back.
25 October 2019 SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor enclosing a signed letter of 
authority (LOA) with a request to accept this as authority for the solicitor to act in the matter 
on Mrs S behalf. 
12 November 2019 SJP recorded the authority and confirmed to the solicitor this had been 
done.
27 December 2019 SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor requesting the surrender 
value.
31 December 2019 SJP confirmed surrender value to Mrs S solicitor. 
10 January 2020 SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor asking it to confirm the 
surrender requirements it had originally asked for on 18 July 2019.
16 January 2020 SJP intended to send the necessary withdrawal form that Mrs S 
needed to complete but has since said it cant be certain this was sent.
6 March 2020 SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor chasing up its request for 
information about surrender requirements as it hadnt received any response to the 
11 January letter (see above). 
12 March 2020 SJP sent the withdrawal form to Mrs S solicitor.
20 April 2020 SJP received the withdrawal form requesting full surrender and this 
was forwarded to the relevant department for processing.
20 May 2020  Mrs S solicitor chased up what was happening with the bond 
surrender.
27 July 2020 Mrs S solicitor contacted SJP to find out information about the bond 
surrender and learned that full surrender requests made after 18 March 2020 hadnt been 
possible due to one of the funds being suspended.
14 August 2020 SJP spoke to Mrs S solicitor on the phone and also wrote the same 
day apologising that information about the suspended fund hadnt been communicated to 
Mrs S solicitor due to an administrative error  which it had repeated later. SJP confirmed 
that Mrs S would need to complete new paperwork to go ahead with a partial withdrawal 
request for the remaining funds and said that it would complete the full surrender as soon as 
the suspension was lifted. 
19 August 2020 Mrs S solicitor returned the signed authority for the partial withdrawal 
to SJP.
10 September 2020 the fund suspension was removed and the full bond surrendered.
12 October 2020 Mrs S solicitor wrote to SJP enquiring about the withdrawal proceeds.6 November 2020 payment for the sum of £65,567.92 was deposited into Mrs S 
nominated bank account.
There was a continuing dialogue between SJP and Mrs S solicitor about the issues 
experienced with the surrender. In summary, SJP admitted there had been significant 
shortcomings in the way it had dealt with the bond surrender. SJP apologised and confirmed 
that pertinent feedback had been provided, it acknowledged that Mrs S solicitor would need 
to pass on to the estate the extra costs of £280.80 hed incurred on Mrs S behalf and said 
SJP would be glad to refund these. Additionally, SJP said it would also make an ex gratia 
payment to Mrs S which would take the total amount it would pay her up to £500. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with SJPs responses and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the points of concern Mrs S had raised. He felt that if the bond 
proceeds wouldve been more had it been surrendered when SJP received the completed 
surrender form in April 2020, then it was fair that SJP should compensate the estate for any 
loss. This would include SJP paying interest on the price difference if the estate had lost out 
financially. And he considered that the £500 payment SJP had offered covered all the 
additional legal costs incurred by Mrs S and the estate. So he felt this was a broadly fair way 
to settle the complaint.
Further correspondence followed and SJP subsequently revised its offer. 
SJP said it was willing to use the date that it received the LOA from SJP as the comparison 
date and the surrender value on that date (25 October 2019) was £65,800.10  which was 
£232.18 more than the actual value of the surrender proceeds in September 2020. So SJP 
offered to repay this amount, plus interest at 8% simple per year up until the date it pays. In 
addition, it offered a further £250 on top of this to reflect delays there had been since 
October 2019. 
Mrs S didnt feel this went far enough to reflect how unhappy she was about the way SJP 
handled the matter and she didnt believe the amount offered was adequate recompense.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs S has suffered significant inconvenience during the course of 
her dealings with SJP. I sympathise with Mrs S and I understand that whats happened has 
been upsetting and frustrating for her. 
 
But I think its important to make clear at the outset that Mrs S brings this complaint in her 
capacity as the executor representing Ms Rs estate and not in her personal capacity. This is 
an important distinction which goes to the heart of what this service can do in this situation 
and I must keep in mind that this complaint relates to the impact on the estate of the way 
SJP has handled the bond surrender.
Under the rules governing our service, Mrs S (as an executor of Ms Rs estate) isnt entitled 
to any compensation for the upset and inconvenience she experienced in the course of 
carrying out her duties as executor. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
upset and inconvenience experienced by its client, not by a third party. Here, the client is 
the late Ms R. Following her death, the investment bond remained within her estate and in this particular situation, the capacity in which Mrs S has dealings with SJP is as a 
representative of the estate.  
Mrs S was throughout acting as the appointed representative of Ms Rs estate when dealing 
with SJP so shes not entitled to receive any compensation or other redress in her capacity 
as executor - nor is the solicitor she instructed. 
I can award redress to the estate if there is evidence to show that SJP made an error or 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in a way that impacted adversely on the estate and this 
resulted in the estate losing out in money terms. So thats the focus of my decision.
What happened is not disputed by SJP. The timeline I've set out above shows that there 
were occasions when SJP failed to respond to Mrs S solicitor as promptly as it ought to 
have done. It failed to address reasonable questions in a timely way which meant it didnt 
provide the information (or sometimes the required forms) to enable Mrs S to progress the 
bond surrender and so delayed the administration of the estate. SJP didnt action matters as 
promptly as Mrs S was reasonably entitled to expect when it had her instructions to proceed 
with the surrender. The situation was aggravated by the fact that there was a suspension 
imposed on one of the funds included in the bond surrender and whilst that wasnt SJPs 
fault, it shouldve told her about this issue sooner. SJP has acknowledged the significant 
shortcomings on its part and engaged with Mrs S solicitor and subsequently with this service 
in trying to reach an agreed resolution. 
Broadly speaking, as the background circumstances are mainly agreed between the parties, 
I dont think I need to say more about what happened and I will concentrate on the question 
of redress. In other words, what should SJP fairly or reasonably be expected to do to put 
things right and provide redress so that what happened doesnt result in any financial loss to 
the estate. 
My starting point is to think about when the bond could reasonably have been sold if SJP 
had dealt with matters in a fair and reasonable way. 
The Grant of Probate confirmed that Mrs S was the sole executor of the estate. SJP said this 
meant Mrs S was now the person entitled to ownership of the bond and this is why it 
needed Mrs S authority to disclose information to anyone else. It said it required a LOA 
signed and dated in order to protect client data. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
requirement. Mrs S solicitor had only previously sent SJP Ms Rs death certificate and told 
SJP we act for the executors before probate had been granted.
When SJP received a letter from Mrs S solicitor on 18 July 2019 asking whether the bond 
could be surrendered, and if so, if SJP would confirm the value and provide the necessary 
forms, SJP responded the next day asking for a LOA. Within five days, Mrs S solicitor wrote 
back to SJP challenging the need for a LOA. The matter then seems to have been left in 
abeyance  Mrs S solicitor didnt follow up his questions about why the LOA was required 
and it was some two and half months later when SJP phoned Mrs S solicitor to discuss this. 
Unable to speak to anyone about the matter, SJP understood that the solicitor would call 
back. In the event, the solicitor provided the signed LOA shortly afterwards without further 
discussion.
I find it was fair for SJP to require Mrs S to provide a letter of authority before engaging 
further with her solicitor in relation to the bond surrender. SJP needed to be satisfied that 
Mrs S wanted it to deal directly with the solicitor regarding the bond transfer as this involved 
disclosure of information that SJP was obliged to keep secure and handle only in 
accordance with data protection requirements. A signed LOA seems to me to be a simple 
and straightforward way to deal quickly with this issue. And after questioning the need for this, Mrs S solicitor seems to have accepted that providing the LOA was the best way 
forward. I dont find in these circumstances that SJP can fairly be said to have been wholly 
responsible for delay up to the point it received the completed LOA on 25 October 2019.
But Mrs S was reasonably entitled to expect SJP to proceed with the surrender as soon as it 
had her signed LOA  and that evidently didnt happen. So, its fair and reasonable to expect 
SJP to compensate the estate for any resulting loss. 
In terms of thinking about the starting point for working out redress, I agree with SJP. If 
matters had progressed as Mrs S was reasonably entitled to expect after she enquired about 
surrender in July, I think its fair to assume that the surrender could have been arranged in 
October 2019. SJP received the signed LOA on 25 October 2019, so this would have been 
the earliest opportunity SJP could potentially have acted on instructions to surrender the 
bond. 
The principle behind redress is to put the estate into the position it would have been in had 
SJP not delayed matters after receiving the LOA. So, SJP needs to compare the actual 
surrender value achieved with the full surrender value that could have been achieved on 
25 October 2019. If the estate is worse off in money terms because the surrender didnt 
happen on 25 October 2019, then SJP needs to pay that shortfall to Mrs S so the estate 
doesnt lose out because of this. It is usual to award interest in these circumstances and SJP 
has already agreed to provide redress on this basis with interest in line with the usual rate 
we would expect. 
This leaves outstanding the question of any additional costs the estate has to pay resulting 
from shortcomings in the service SJP provided in relation to this matter. I understand the 
solicitor previously informed SJP that these amounted to £280.80 and SJP has already said 
it will gladly refund this amount. I agree that its fair and reasonable that SJP should cover 
those extra costs to avoid the estate having to pay these.
I dont know if those costs have already been paid by SJP. The solicitors extra costs arent 
mentioned as part of SJPs most recent offer to make an ex gratia payment of £250. But Im 
mindful that this amount alone wouldnt be sufficient to cover the solicitors costs mentioned 
above if they havent yet been paid. 
I appreciate that Mrs S has continued instruct her solicitor since this costs information was 
provided in March 2021. But Ive kept in mind that SJP is only required to cover the extra 
costs that the estate would otherwise have to pay  not the solicitors costs for acting on 
Mrs S behalf generally. As Mrs S brought her complaint to this service a few months after 
SJP made this offer and given that SJP has engaged with us since in trying to settle this 
complaint, I dont consider in these circumstances that it would be fair to tell it to refund any 
further costs. 
Ive set out below the steps SJP needs to take to put things right. 
Whilst I have summarised the main issues in my own words, sometimes in less detail than 
Mrs S, and I havent commented on everything Mrs S has mentioned, thats because Ive 
concentrated on her main complaint about the amount of redress. This reflects the fact that 
we provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. I hope 
that the way I've set things out is helpful in explaining how I've reached my decision and 
Mrs S will feel that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
SJP has provided information that showed:
Full surrender value on the unit price date of 25 October 2019 = £65,800.10
Actual full surrender proceeds received after surrender on the unit price date of 
10 September 2020 = £65,567.92.

This difference in value meant there was a short fall of £232.18 to the estate. 
To put things right St James's Place UK plc should pay Mrs S, in her capacity as the 
executor of Ms Rs estate, as follows:
the amount of £232.18 plus *8% simple interest per year calculated from 
25 October 2019 to the date of settlement, and
£280.80 in respect of solicitors costs. If this amount has been paid already, then 
SJP is not required to make any further payment in respect of costs.  
*Income tax may be payable on this interest. If SJP deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off and give her a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on this interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Ms Rs estate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman