DRN-3748605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage from Santander UK Plc (Santander). They 
complain that the mortgage was mis-sold, about the way their mortgage has been managed 
and that Santander has refused to extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs M took out a 15-year interest only flexible mortgage with Abbey National 
plc (Abbey). That mortgage is now owned by Santander. In 2006, 2007 and 2008 Mr and 
Mrs M borrowed more money under their mortgage.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs M contacted Santander to ask it to extend the term of their 
mortgage. They wanted their mortgage to last until they turned 70 years of age. Santander 
declined this application, as they believed extending the term of the mortgage wouldnt be 
affordable to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M contacted Santander again in June 2020, asking if they could add their 
children to the mortgage. They hoped that would enable Santander to consider the mortgage 
term extension affordable. Santander did another affordability assessment, but Santander 
said the mortgage extension theyd asked for would still be unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term came to an end in July 2020.
In July 2022 I issued a jurisdiction decision to say that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
could consider the following issues:
Mr and Mrs Ms belief that the further advances taken out in 2006, 2007 and 2008 
were unsuitable for them, as affordability checks were not carried out.
Santanders decision not to extend the term of their mortgage on affordability 
grounds.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt receive a response from Santander when they asked 
for a second covid-19 payment holiday around August 2020.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about the time it took for Santander to process a subject 
access request. They also complain that they werent provided with the information 
they requested
I said that the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have jurisdiction to consider other issues 
Mr and Mrs M had complained about.
Our investigator looked into the issues raised above but she didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms  
complaint. Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Credit limit reviews (further advances) in 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Mr and Mrs M believe the further advances werent suitable for them as they say they are in 
a better financial position today than they were between 2006 and 2008. As Santander has 
said that it doesnt think they could afford to extend their mortgage term now, they think 
something must have been wrong with those advances.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms position. But having considered the available information I can 
see that the offers of more money they were sent in 2006, 2007 and 2008 were clear in how 
much Mr and Mrs M were borrowing and the amount they would need to repay each month.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs M have been able to keep up with their mortgage repayments 
since they borrowed more money in 2006, 2007 and 2008. So that doesnt suggest to me 
that the further advances were unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M. I appreciate the wider point 
theyre making  they think that if the 2006, 2007 and 2008 advances were affordable when 
they were in a worse financial position than they are today, then the term extension they 
currently want must be affordable to them. 
However, Santander is required to consider affordability in accordance with the regulations 
in force today. As Mr and Mrs M know, the affordability requirements today are much more 
rigorous than they were in (and before) 2008. So it doesnt follow that the 2006, 2007 and 
2008 must have been unaffordable too. It wouldnt be fair to apply todays affordability rules 
to a consideration of affordability in 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Term extension
Mr and Mrs M asked to extend the term of their mortgage until they are 70 years of age  in 
spring 2024. They say they have the money to repay their mortgage as they own and are 
willing to sell other properties. However, they want the extension to be granted to give them 
time to sell their other properties at a time when theyll get the best possible return on them. 
Theyve said that theyve had health concerns and the covid-19 pandemic to deal with in 
recent years and that Santanders decision not to extend their mortgage has had an adverse 
effect on their health and wellbeing.
Im sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs Ms health concerns in recent years. However, my 
starting point in this complaint is the fact that when Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage, 
they agreed to repay the balance at the end of the term in 2020. So its reasonable that 
Santander expected them to do that. Santander wasnt required to extend their mortgage. 
However, it had to consider any applications Mr and Mrs M made to extend their mortgage 
fairly and reasonably. 
When Mr and Mrs M asked Santander  to extend the term of the mortgage in 2020, 
Santander had to consider whether they could afford to do that bearing in mind their 
circumstances and the regulatory rules in force at the time. Santander said its lending policy 
required it to consider whether they could afford a mortgage that ran until Mr and Mrs M 
were 70 years of age on repayment (as opposed to interest only) terms. I can see from the 
information Santander has provided that it considered Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and 
didnt think they could afford that. Later Mr and Mrs M asked Santander to add their children to their mortgage as they hoped 
that would enable Santander to say that a mortgage term extension until they turned 70 
years of age was affordable. However, Santander declined that too on affordability grounds. 
Mr M has told us that between him, Mrs M and their children they earn around £213,000 a 
year. So he cannot understand that decision. However, I can understand this. The capital 
that needs to be repaid on the mortgaged property to redeem it is around £620,000. 
Santander has told us that its lending policy required it to consider whether Mr and Mrs M 
and their children could afford a mortgage that ran until Mr and Mrs M were 70 years of age 
on repayment terms. As Mr and Mrs M would both be 70 years of age in spring 2024 that 
meant that Mr and Mrs M and their children would need to be able to demonstrate that they 
could repay around £620,000 in around four years  taking into account all their other 
financial commitments.
I think its helpful for me to say here that its up to Santander to set its own lending policy. Its 
allowed to use its commercial judgement to put in place a policy in relation to mortgages 
which reflects its regulatory obligations, as well as its attitude to risk. Where a complaint is 
about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is here) my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Santander. In this case, and having considered all the 
available information, I think that Santander considered Mr and Mrs Ms term extension 
applications fairly. Mr M has said Santander refused their term extension request without 
doing any checks on their credit files, so he thinks Santander had no intention of granting 
their request. I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about Santanders decision not to 
extend the mortgage, but Im not persuaded by that. Santander needed to consider the 
applicants income and expenditure when assessing affordability, not their credit files. I can 
see that it did that.
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Mr M has complained that Santander 
said it would only offer him and Mrs M one-year forbearance period after their mortgage 
ended, and only then if they agreed to sell the mortgaged property and pay a higher interest 
rate in the meantime. Mr M thinks Santander did this to exploit him and Mrs M. Having 
considered all the available information I dont think thats the case. I can see from 
Santanders notes that it spoke to Mr and Mrs M in August 2020 (after their mortgage term 
had ended) and discussed a two-year term extension with them as a forbearance measure 
at a fixed interest rate of 2.99% with no early repayment charge. I dont think Santander 
acted unfairly when it offered this given that the interest rate Mr and Mrs M had been on 
before their mortgage ended was no longer available. In any event it appears that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt speak to Santander again about this offer - so they continued to benefit from 
the interest rate they were on before their mortgage ended in July 2020. 
Finally I think its worth saying that as things stand today, Santander has already effectively 
extended Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage for more than two years after it ended in mid-2020. It 
wasnt required to do that. I can understand why Santander doesnt want to wait for another 
two years for the mortgage to be repaid. Much could change in that period of time, and 
theres also a risk that Mr and Mrs Ms finances could deteriorate.
In the circumstances, I cant say Santander did anything wrong in relation to this point.
Second covid-19 payment deferral request
Mr and Mrs M have said that after their original payment deferral came to an end in July 
2020, they sent Santander a letter asking for a second Covid-19 payment deferral. But this 
wasnt responded to.
Santander says it hasnt been able to locate the request. I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr and Mrs M, but I cant see that they mentioned it to Santander when they spoke 
to it in August and September 2020  after their monthly mortgage repayments had 
resumed. They did raise the matter with Santander in October 2020 but I cant see that they 
asked for monthly payments to stop. That suggests to me that they were able to make their 
monthly payments at this time. So while I have no doubt that they were annoyed by 
Santander not responding to them on this point, I dont think that it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require Santander to compensate Mr and Mrs M for this matter. My role 
isnt to punish Santander for its mistakes.
Subject access (DSAR) request
Mr M says that when he spoke to Santander to make a subject access request the agent 
laughed and told him he would need to contact another department.
Mr and Mrs M havent been able to say when this happened. Our investigator asked 
Santander for phone recordings and transcripts from April-August 2020, as this was when Mr 
and Mrs M were discussing their options with Santander, but the information provided 
(phone recordings, transcripts, notes) by Santander didnt demonstrate that it laughed at 
Mr M.
Its clear that Mr M is very annoyed by this matter and that he has spent some time trying to 
locate the relevant phone call. I dont underestimate his strength of feeling about it. However, 
as I said above, my role isnt to punish Santander for mistakes it makes. It is to try and 
resolve this complaint in a fair and reasonable way. I think that if the call had been located 
and inappropriate conduct had been identified Santander would have apologised to Mr and 
Mrs M and spoken to the member of staff involved. If that had happened I wouldve said that 
was sufficient to resolve the matter. However, the available evidence doesnt demonstrate 
that Mr M was laughed at. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require 
Santander to apologise or compensate Mr and Mrs M for this matter.
Mr M is also unhappy that when he received the subject access request in July 2021, he 
didnt receive all the phone recordings he asked for. He has said that he is especially 
concerned that Santander havent provided any of the phone calls he made to it. He thinks 
Santander should have recordings of all phone calls. He isnt happy that he was provided 
with transcripts instead of a recording of a particular call as he thinks that the transcripts 
didnt tell the which whole story or demonstrate the tone of the call. 
Once again I recognise Mr Ms frustration about this, but I have no reason to think that 
Santander has withheld information from Mr M. As my role isnt to punish Santander for 
mistakes I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Santander to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M for this issue. 
conclusion
I empathise with Mr and Mrs M, and recognise that this decision is likely be very 
disappointing to them. I appreciate their strong feelings about Santander and the impact the 
issues raised in this complaint have had on them. However, for the reasons set out above, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Santander to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman