DRN-1184917
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs D says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a mortgage. 
Both things happened during a branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs D's mortgage payments in the event Mr D (the 
policy was in his name only) couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The policy would pay out an amount equal to the mortgage payment plus an additional 
amount calculated at £3.00 for every £1,000 of mortgage taken. And it would do so for up to 
12 months per claim. It cost £50 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr D was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half-pay. Mr and Mrs D also said they had some 
savings they could've used to make their repayments, and they said Mr D was in good 
health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr and Mrs D chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for them. They also said they didn't need to look at the commission Mr and Mrs 
D paid with their PPI premiums because Lloyds said the commission was less than 50% of 
the premium.
Because Mr and Mrs D disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs D's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs D's complaint and my reasons are 
set out below.
 
did Mr and Mrs D have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?Mr and Mrs D have said the optional nature of the policy wasn't made clear - they say they 
thought it was just part of the mortgage. They say they were asked protection questions 
before the application could proceed.
I've therefore considered this point carefully. And having done so, I think Lloyds made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs D didn't have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant now remember this.
Lloyds has provided copies of some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. And this 
includes Mr and Mrs D's mortgage application and PPI application. Looking firstly at the 
mortgage application - towards the end of the application and after the details about their 
mortgage requirements there is a section about insurance where Mr and Mrs D were asked 
whether they wanted to take out PPI or not. And I can see there is a tick in the 'Yes' box - the 
'No' box is blank. 
I accept that, given this was a meeting in a branch the adviser likely ticked the application for 
Mr and Mrs D. And this isn't unusual or surprising. But they signed the overall application 
and they completed and signed a separate PPI application and direct debit mandate to allow 
the premiums to be taken from their bank account.
By having to complete and sign the above paperwork and from the way it was set out, I don't 
think Mr and Mrs D would have been given the impression they had to have PPI to get the 
mortgage or that it was an integral part of it.
So, overall I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take out PPI, and they likely did so without undue 
pressure.
the advice
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. And while I've not seen anything to 
show this, because it doesn't disadvantage Mr and Mrs D in any way  if anything its more 
favourable to them  Im happy to consider this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds had 
to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs D as well as telling them everything they 
needed to know about it in a clear and timely way.
While Lloyds might not have taken all reasonable steps to ensure PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs D, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was 
suitable. For example, Mr D was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by any of the 
significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions and unusual employment circumstances; and Mr and Mrs D seem to have had a 
need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs D say they didn't need the cover because Mr D had generous sick pay 
arrangements - they've also pointed to the savings they say they had.
But these things aren't enough to persuade me that PPI wasn't suitable for them. In addition 
to what I've said above about why I think it was suitable, the PPI would've paid out in 
addition to Mr D's sick pay provision and for longer if necessary - up to 12 months per claim.
I accept Mr and Mrs D likely had some savings. But I'm mindful about how much weight I 
can place on the level of savings they say they had at the time. I say this because Mr and 
Mrs D originally told Lloyds they had between £8,000 - £10,000.
But Mr and Mrs D's representative has more recently told us Mr and Mrs D had £15,000 in 
savings. In addition, I can see that part of Mr and Mrs D's mortgage application records they wanted to borrow just over £2,000 for home improvements. But why would Mr and Mrs D 
choose to borrow this amount of money and for this purpose, if they had significant readily 
accessible savings?
But despite the above, Mr D was the sole household income earner and therefore solely 
responsible for meeting the joint mortgage payment - a payment on an almost six figure 
mortgage sum. As I indicated above, the policy could've paid out for longer than Mr D's sick 
pay helping to relieve any financial pressure, and allowing Mr and Mrs D to either delay 
using their savings or prevent them from having to call on them to pay their mortgage.
So I think the policy would've proved useful to Mr and Mrs D if the insured risks became a 
reality and Mr D found himself unable to work for an extended period. I think it could 
ultimately have helped Mr and Mrs D protect their home.
the information  
The available evidence tells me that Mr and Mrs D had some information about the policy. 
So I think they had a broad understanding of what PPI was and what it would cover. But I 
accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it shouldve been. Nevertheless, as I found above I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take it 
out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And as I also set out above, it seems like 
the cover would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off 
taking out the recommended cover. 
conclusion
While Lloyds might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when 
it sold Mr and Mrs D PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time - and because I don't 
think the policy operated fundamentally differently from what they expected and found 
acceptable at the time - I think Mr and Mrs D would've still gone ahead and taken out 
PPI had Lloyds done anything more.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their PPI  and whether 
Lloyds treated them unfairly. 
Lloyds has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs D's PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Lloyds has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs D's commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think Lloyds treated them unfairly. This means it doesn't need to pay 
Mr and Mrs D back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman