DRN-1636940
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc have treated her unfairly in regard to a 
transaction for the purchase of some flight tickets. 
What happened
In February 2019 tickets were purchased through a website for airline tickets using Mrs S 
Sainsburys credit card. Mrs S bought them for her family for a holiday abroad. The total cost 
charged to her card was just over £3660.
The airline then notified Mrs S that there were issues with the flights booked and offered 
alternate flights or a refund. Due to the practicalities of the alternate flights Mrs S decided 
shed have the refund. After much discussion with various parties Mrs S was eventually 
refunded the money, which she received in October 2019.
But before she got the money back shed complained to Sainsburys as she thought she was 
getting nowhere through complaining elsewhere. Sainsburys temporarily adjusted her 
account so that she didnt have to pay for the disputed cost of the flights. In August 2019 
Sainsbury wrote to Mrs S to say that it had spoken to the website through whom she bought 
the tickets and having considered chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 it wasnt at fault. So Sainsbury told Mrs S that shed be liable for the flights cost and 
that the adjustment would be removed from her account ten days later.
Mrs S was unhappy, so she complained. Sainsbury looked into the matter, but it didnt think 
it could help with regard to refunding her for the flights. But it did think it could have dealt 
with her better, so it paid her £50.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Sainsbury had acted unfairly by declining Mrs 
Ss request for a refund. Mrs S didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S accepts she made this transaction for these tickets and she hasnt disputed that she 
knew the amount she was paying. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the 
transaction was properly authorised by Mrs S and correctly applied to Mrs Ss credit card 
account with Sainsbury. 
could Sainsbury challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs S 
does here, Sainsburys (as the card issuer) can attempt to challenge the transaction through 
the chargeback process. Sainsburys is required to consider whether there is a reasonable 
prospect of success when it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or 
not. If it does go through the process, then it must do so properly. The merchant can defend 
the chargeback request and then Sainsbury should decide how to proceed. Ultimately the 
scheme provider (not Sainsbury) makes a final binding decision. So Sainsbury isnt the final 
arbiter in the chargeback process and hence isnt responsible for deciding on whether the 
chargeback is successful or not. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt 
think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Sainsbury has told us it raised a chargeback and it was defended by the website. Sainsbury 
notes that the website isnt the provider of the flights, but rather provides a service of 
arranging flights on behalf of Mrs S with the airline who provide the flights. And the website 
did deliver on its part of the agreement by arranging the flights. So it had done what it is 
meant to do. As such Sainsbury felt that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in 
continuing the chargeback. Ive considered what has happened here and Im not persuaded 
that Sainsburys has treated Mrs S unfairly by deciding this. And subsequently Mrs S has 
also received the disputed funds back by another route, so she hasnt lost out due to the 
chargeback not being pursued further. So I dont think Sainsbury has done anything wrong 
here.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Ss Sainsburys credit card. Under section 75 of this 
Act, in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Sainsbury as she does 
against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier if certain conditions are met. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. Ive considered the websites terms and the contract here. And I note that the flights 
are provided by the airline and not the website used here. But the website does agree to 
arrange flights on behalf of Mrs S for which it is paid for this service. So in effect, there is a 
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs S, Sainsbury and the website, albeit not 
for the direct provision of the tickets themselves but rather the arranging of the flights. 
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must be within certain financial limits as described in the Act. Im satisfied 
that in this case the requirements here have been met.
For a successful claim Mrs S would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website with regard to the contract for arranging the flights. It seems to me that it is 
possible that Mrs S is merging the responsibilities of the website and the airline even though 
they are separate entities with separate responsibilities. Or even possibly merging the 
responsibilities of Sainsburys and the other parties. 
However I can only uphold this complaint against Sainsbury here if it fails in some way or 
that I am persuaded that the website has breached or misrepresented the service it 
provides. I can see Sainsbury considered the situation and considered both the chargeback 
process and its responsibilities under Section 75.
But for the similar reasons as Ive described earlier Im not persuaded that there was breach 
or misrepresentation here by the website. Its contract with Mrs S is to arrange flights and 
provide a service in that regard. But it isnt responsible for the provision of the flights 
themselves or indeed the actions of the airline. So Im not persuaded that Sainsburys 
position that there is no breach of contract or misrepresentation here is unfair. In fact Im not 
persuaded the website did breach or misrepresent the contract. The issues lie elsewhere.In summary I think that Mrs S hasnt lost out here as I think Sainsbury made a fair decision in 
not taking the chargeback further. Im not persuaded that there has been a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website. And I think Sainsbury correctly applied the cost of the 
tickets to Mrs Ss credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require Sainsbury to refund 
Mrs S for the tickets as it hasnt done anything wrong. And furthermore considering that Mrs 
S has been refunded the costs through other means even if Sainsbury had done something 
sufficiently wrong I wouldnt be refunding the flight costs as Mrs S has already had that 
money back. 
Mrs S has also complained that whilst Sainsbury investigated the matter it temporarily 
adjusted her account so that she didnt lose out. Clearly such a process is in Mrs S favour 
as it means whilst the transaction is in dispute she isnt unfairly having to pay interest on the 
amount in question. Ive considered what happened here and Im satisfied Sainsburys did 
enough so that Mrs S should have understood it was an adjustment that could be later 
removed. And I note that before it was removed Sainsbury wrote to Mrs S to explain that it 
was going to do so. So I dont think Sainsbury has treated Mrs S unfairly.
Lastly I can see that Sainsbury paid Mrs S £50 for the customer service provided. This 
seems fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs S feels the refund could have been paid quicker than it was. But Im not 
persuaded that Sainsbury is responsible for that or indeed has done anything which would 
warrant me upholding this complaint about it. Accordingly Mrs S complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman