DRN-3674196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
they made for water damage to their kitchen.
Mr and Mrs P are being represented by their son in their complaint. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs P reported to Ageas that there were cracks to their kitchen floor 
tiles which had been visible for two months. Mr P said he thought part of a wooden beam for 
the floor toward the outer wall had gone rotten. Ageas asked Mr P if he thought it might be a 
water leak. Mr P said he didnt know. Ageas asked if their water bills had gone up. Mr P said 
no. 
Ageas suggested Mr and Mrs P seek a builder to look at the kitchen floor to determine a 
cause of damage. As things stood, Ageas said no insured peril had occurred.
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs P contacted Ageas. They said theyd contacted a builder who 
in January 2022 had removed the kitchen tiles to carry out repairs. When he returned in 
February 2022 to complete the repairs he discovered there was standing water under the 
kitchen. The builder couldnt identify where the water was coming from. 
Ageas arranged for Mr and Mrs P to claim under the Trace and Access section of the policy 
to trace the source of the leak. An agent attended Mr and Mrs Ps home and provided a leak 
detection report for Ageas. Mr P told the agent that since the floor had been lifted up they 
could see that when it rained, rainwater was coming in from an external wall under the 
kitchen floor.
The agent couldnt find evidence of a leak from the main water supply pipes inside the 
kitchen. They identified water coming from outside the home through the brickwork as a 
result of a faulty drainpipe causing an overflow of water which was seeping into the kitchen 
from the outside. 
Ageas appointed a surveyor to inspect the home in order to consider an escape of water 
claim. They agreed with the findings of the agent who provided a leak detection report. The 
surveyor said the faulty drainpipe would have led to rainwater saturating the brickwork and 
running into the house for a prolonged period of time. It seemed the damage to the kitchen 
flooring which Mr and Mrs P reported to Ageas which they were aware of since June 2021 
was as a result of the ingress of water from outside. 
Mr P raised a complaint on behalf of his parents to Ageas. He was unhappy with how long it 
took for him to get through to Ageas, that it failed to call him and his parents back when 
promised, and for its decision to reject the claim.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. It said as the damage had been ongoing over a 
prolonged period of time, it wasnt covered under the policy. It apologised for the poor 
service and said this was due to unprecedented weather conditions at the time which led to 
longer wait times in answering calls. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his parents complaint. He provided an 
example of a case study from our website where we upheld a complaint. He believes it 
matches the circumstances of his parents claim. He was unhappy that Ageas asked for his 
parents to pay an excess before it decided to reject the claim and wont provide a refund.
Our Investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy as it didnt 
provide cover for damage caused gradually. 
Mr P didnt agree. Mr P says his parents couldnt have been aware of the cause of damage 
when they called in August 2021. They said they didnt know if it was caused by an escape 
of water. 
Mr P believes Ageas should have done more in August 2021 and should accept the claim.
So Mr P wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read of the circumstances Mr and Mrs P have been living with since their kitchen 
floor has been taken up. I understand this has left them in difficult living conditions and I can 
appreciate Mr Ps concerns and his dissatisfaction with Ageas decision to reject their claim. 
Ive looked at what Ageas policy says in relation to any claim for an escape of water. It 
defines a water leak as:
Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or drainage installation, heating 
installation, washing machine, dishwasher, water bed, fish tank, refrigerator, or deep freeze 
cabinet.
Ageas goes on to explain how Trace and Access works:
Trace and Access 
Providing your buildings have been damaged by the water leakage, we will pay the 
reasonable costs you have to pay to find where the leak is coming from, including the 
cost of repairs to walls, floors or ceilings up to £5,000. 
So from the policy wording, this shows Mr and Mrs Ps claim for leaking water isnt covered 
under the policy as it arose from rainwater leaking from a faulty outside drainpipe and 
overflowing from a water butt when it rained. 
Ageas - like most insurers - doesnt provide cover for every eventuality but for specified 
insured perils: unforeseen sudden events such as fire, storm or flood. 
Ageas policy says it excludes cover for damage by any gradual cause or wear and tear. It 
doesnt provide cover for costs it hasnt agreed to. 
Key sections from the leak detection report reads:
I have carried out a visual inspection outside including carrying out flood testing. I 
ran a hose inside the rainwater fall pipe and noticed that water started to overflow 
from a water butt and pool next to a drainage gully. Due to the gully having a raised 
edge the rainwater from the water butt is not able to drain away and is draining into 
the ground and through the wall beneath the kitchen floor. Water is visibly pouring in. 
I have a video of this. When running water into the inside of the drain no water leaks 
through so I have no reason to believe the drainage is leaking beneath ground so 
dont think a CCTV survey is required.
The leak detection agent concluded:water has been leaking out of the water butt due to a faulty rainwater fall pipe 
diverter that is continuing to feed into the water butt when full causing it to pour over 
the ground and then leak into the kitchen floor void. 
The surveyor who inspected Mr and Mrs Ps home on 28 February 2022 confirmed the 
cause of damage was due to the ingress of external moisture into the property. He confirmed 
the leak detection agents findings and reported that excess water had been penetrating 
through the saturated brickwork, after first overflowing from the rainwater diversion system. 
The surveyor wrote in respect of the cause of damage:
This will have occurred over a sustained and continued time, and will also have 
served to continue to undermine the strength and rigidity of the bricks which are 
remaining saturated in order to allow the pooled water from the overflowing water 
collection butt.
The water collection butt has not had any means of overflow protection to allow extra 
rainwater to be discharged into the wastewater system which it is currently unable to 
access due to the brickwork present
Given the Insured had registered a previous claim for damage within the same area 
of the property which had been unsuccessful, it would be highly likely that the 
damage being reported in that instance was in fact resultant from the ingress of 
external rainwater breaching the external breakdown. 
Ive looked at the example case study Mr P has referred to. While there are some similarities 
to the case study, I dont think the circumstances match. 
Its not clear why there was a gap of seven months from when Mr and Mrs P noticed the 
damage to the kitchen floor to when a builder accessed the flooring to reveal the water 
damage. From the reports provided it seems the water had been pooling for some time 
outside and so I think would have been visible outside after periods of heavy rain. 
So, from the information available to Ageas, the water damage had been ongoing gradually 
due to a poor drainage set up for overflowing water outside which was seeping into the 
house through the brickwork. As Ageas policy excludes cover for damage caused gradually 
and wear and tear, I think its decision to decline the claim was reasonable. 
When a claim is made under Trace and Access it isnt unusual for the excess to be paid up 
front. And as an agent attended Mr and Mrs Ps home and checked for leaks and provided a 
report, I dont think it unreasonable of Ageas not to provide a refund of the excess. 
As Mr and Mrs Ps claim for an escape of water has been rejected, I understand Mr and Mrs 
P havent paid a separate excess for this claim under their buildings insurance policy. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs P and their son will be very disappointed with my decision. But 
having taken everything into account, I dont think Ageas has acted unreasonably. So this 
means I dont think it is responsible for the consequences of the damage not being repaired - 
as the cause isnt covered under the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman