DRN-3905183
Complaint
Ms J has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) 
provided to her. She says that the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been 
provided to her.
Background
Everyday Lending provided Ms J with a loan for £3,000.00 in June 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 127.1% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,386.16, including interest, fees and charges of £3,386.16, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of around £265. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Js complaint and she thought Everyday Lending 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms J with her loan. So she thought that      
Ms Js complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigators assessment. So the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Js complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Lending needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Lending needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Ms J could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Lending has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Ms J had a significant 
amount of existing debt, which she was struggling to manage and was demonstrated by the 
missed payments and arrangements to pay. And the credit checks also show that Ms J had 
a significant history of payday loans too.
Furthermore, while theres some suggestion this loan might have been for debt 
consolidation, the amount didnt correspond to what Ms J owed. Its therefore unclear to me 
how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve 
Ms Js financial position  especially bearing in mind this loan had a much higher interest 
rate than some of Ms Js existing debts. 
Im also mindful that Everyday Lending relied on the use of average data to calculate Ms Js 
living expenses. This is despite the fact that her credit file showed she didnt fit the profile of 
the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms J has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Ms Js financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Lending, 
Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Js version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Js existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Lending that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms J. 
As Everyday Lending provided Ms J with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms J ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms J lost out because of what Everyday Lending did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Ms J
Having thought about everything, Everyday Lending should put things right for Ms J by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms J paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms J to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Js credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman