DRN-1991719
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited misrepresented a finance 
agreement.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr F acquired a car at a cost of £21,897, funded by part exchange, a 
deposit and the balance of £20,207.80 by a conditional sale agreement. The agreement 
included the following term:
Guaranteed Minimum Future Value
This is the minimum value the vehicle will be worth on the date of your final repayment. You 
can use this value if you want to part- exchange the vehicle or make the final repayment and 
keep the vehicle. When working out the GMFV we assume the vehicle will be in a good stale 
of repair (allowing for fair wear and tear). We will also assume that the vehicle's mileage will 
not he beyond the mileage set out in your agreement.
The GMFV in the contract for Mr Fs car was £11,050.
Mr Fs agreement was coming to an end and in June 2019 Clydesdale wrote to him to say 
he had three options. One was to keep the car and pay the final balloon payment of £11,050, 
the second was to part exchange it and the third was return the car.
Mr F visited the dealer and was offered £9.500 as a trade in value. He said he believed he 
was entitled to the GMFV.  He complained to Clydesdale and it offered cover any shortfall in 
the part exchange value. Mr F said he wanted the final balloon payment to be reduced to 
£9,500. Clydesdale didnt agree and said that he would suffer no financial detriment by 
paying the agreed balloon payment.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted Mr F believed the GMFV to be a 
false statement of fact. Our investigator carried out a CAP historic valuation check on the car 
for October 2019 with the assumption it had covered 37,000 miles and this showed a Retail 
Transacted valuation of £11,451.00 at the end of contract. He noted this was greater than 
the GMFV figure.
He couldnt say why the dealer had offered a lower value, but it was open to Mr F to get 
quotations from other dealerships. He had noted Mr F had said he had complained about the 
poor service from the dealer and this may have been the cause. In the end Mr F opted to 
pay the final repayment and keep the car. Our investigator said that Mr Fs understanding 
that had he returned the car he would be liable for any shortfall when the car was auctioned 
was incorrect.
Mr F didnt agree and said he was offered a GMFV, but as the dealer hadnt accepted this 
and so he was left with no alternative than to buy the car. He said the offer to make up the 
difference was withdrawn by Clydesdale. He reached out to Clydesdale and suggested they 
split the difference. He said it appeared that as Clydesdale had ceased its commercial 
relationship with the manufacturer then this may have affected its decision making.
Our investigator noted the comments, but said he didnt believe Mr F had been financially 
disadvantaged when he bought the car. He added that Clydesdale was not responsible for 
the offer made by the dealer. Mr F asked that his complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr F was disappointed by the offer made by the dealer, but I dont consider I 
can uphold his subsequent complaint against Clydesdale. I will explain why.
Firstly, I would point out that this service has no remit over the actions of the dealer and the 
level of service it provided so I wont be addressing those aspects of Mr Fs complaint. What 
I can consider are the actions of Clydesdale. 
As set out above Mr F had three options when it came to the end of his finance agreement. 
He was notified of these in good time. After being given a low offer by the dealer Mr F 
contacted Clydesdale and complained. It explained that it had no control over what was 
offered by the dealer. I gather the return of the car was discussed and Mr F was considering 
this but was concerned about the possible charges. 
I have reviewed Clydesdales internal records and see these show it contacted Mr F on 8 
October and offered to make up the difference. Mr F says his offer to meet halfway was 
declined. However, I see that Clydesdale issued a letter on 9 October offering to make good 
the shortfall. Mr F says that letter wasnt received until 21 October. It seems as if there might 
have been some misunderstanding during the call since Clydesdale issued a letter the day 
after the call offering to cover the full amount of the shortfall.
The letter provided the necessary clarification and it is regrettable that it wasnt received by 
Mr F until 29 October, but I cannot hold Clydesdale responsible for that delay. I am satisfied 
from reviewing its internal records that the letter was sent the day after the call. 
However, it seems Mr F had decided to take the purchase option. In doing so he had to pay 
£11,050 which is less than the car was worth according to the independent guide, assuming 
it was in reasonable order. I cannot say why the dealer offered less, there could be many 
different reasons, but I cannot see that Mr F has been disadvantaged by the outcome.
I appreciate he expressed an interest in part exchanging the car and he spoke with another 
dealer, but having agreed a deal he was told that it would be financed by another lender 
rather than Clydesdale which caused him to end that opportunity. I am not clear why he took 
that action.
It also seems that Mr F was under the misapprehension that he would have to make up the 
shortfall if he returned the car. The reality is that he would have been liable for any damage 
which went beyond fair wear and tear, or any excess mileage. There was also a collection 
fee, but it was open for him to deliver the car. That said I note that he lives a considerable 
distance from the collection point. 
Overall, I cannot say that Mr F was disadvantaged and there is no basis to say that he 
should only have had to pay £9,500 to purchase the car.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman