DRN-3104038
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for three tickets 
to an event.
What happened
In December 2017 three tickets were purchased through the Website to attend an event in 
2018 using Mr Ks NBS credit card. The total cost charged to his card was just over £312.
Mr K says he thought he was looking at the events website. He says he did enter his card 
details, but he didnt go ahead with the transaction but rather decided against it and closed 
the web browser. He then received confirmation of the purchase of the tickets and 
complained to the website. Mr K received the tickets in time and used them to attend the 
event. He wasnt successful with his complaint to the Website.
So Mr K complained to NBS who looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This 
was because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success in its view because the tickets were provided. It also thought a Section 
75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it 
could do any more for Mr K.
Mr K didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ks 
request for a refund. Mr K didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the Website 
(which Mr K then bought).
authorisation
Mr K accepts he selected these tickets for the event in question and entered his card details 
on the day that NBS say the transaction took place. He says:
 
The website instruction came up with an accept or decline request at the same time which 
was the first time I became aware of the full breakdown of the charges. I accept that I should 
have declined but exiting the website should be sufficient. I suspect that my use may be 
unusual as I was using an (smartphone) and slid the screen upwards to close it down.
In essence Mr K is saying that he went through the process up to the point where he was 
given the option of authorising the transaction but chose at that stage not to proceed. So in 
short hes saying he didnt authorise the transaction and consequently shouldnt have had it 
applied to his credit card account with NBS.
This service has seen a number of complaints about this Website and has built up through 
these cases (and its enquiries) a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went 
through when purchasing tickets at different times. This understanding includes 
understanding changes to the selling process over several years and what purchasers would 
have seen at each stage of the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Mr K would have gone through at 
the time he bought the tickets and what he would have seen on the Website at each stage. 
Having considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I appreciate 
that the full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. However Im 
satisfied on balance that when Mr K went through the several stages/pages of the sales 
process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter his card details, the 
total cost to be charged to him was shown at that point which is importantly before he 
completed the transaction. 
It is important to remember here the test is whether NBS did anything wrong in applying the 
transaction cost to Mr Ks account after the website informed NBS that this transaction had 
been made. NBS position is that NBS couldnt have been notified of the transaction if it 
hadnt been authorised by Mr K. It points to it being an automated system with no human 
involvement. And Ive not seen any evidence of their being a technical issue here on the part 
of the website. It is possible that there was an issue with Mr Ks phone. But that wouldnt be 
NBS fault. Considering what happened here and what this service knows about such 
transactions Im satisfied on balance of probabilities that NBS hasnt done anything wrong in 
applying the cost of the transaction to Mr Ks credit card account.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr K does 
here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. And it is 
clear that Mr K complained promptly about this matter in this case.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other reasons along with that of the outcome of the chargeback being successful 
through the actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt 
necessarily mean that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one. I dont 
think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr K didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then NBS should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
NBS) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So NBS isnt solely 
responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback 
process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.NBS has said it couldnt raise a chargeback because when it considered whether to do so or 
not, it concluded that there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the tickets wouldnt be 
supplied or that anything had gone wrong with the transaction. And having considered the 
chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im not persuaded Mr K has 
lost out because NBS didnt raise a chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a 
reasonable prospect of success considering the situation and the chargeback rules. I also 
think had it raised a chargeback the Website would have defended it on the basis it provided 
what it said it would and hadnt done anything wrong (as it had in response to his complaint 
to it). So I dont think Mr K lost out due to NBS not raising a chargeback.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ks NBS credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against NBS as he does against the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by it. I should 
make very clear here that this test is a very different test to whether Mr K thinks the Website 
could have done things better overall. Ultimately NBS is only responsible in this case due to 
this legislation and is only responsible for those issues which are ascribed to it under this 
legislation (which has significant limits within it). This distinction between NBS and the 
Website is crucial in properly appreciating this complaint. They are far from one and the 
same.
S56 of this Act is also important here. In summary section 56 has the effect of making NBS 
responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr K entering into the 
agreement. In essence this means NBS can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process before agreement was reached.
As Ive described the liability here under the Act has significant limitations. For instance the 
Act includes certain financial limits under S75 with regard to the amount of the transaction in 
question. Ive considered these limits and Im satisfied that Mr Ks transaction can be 
considered under this section. 
Another limitation is around the nature of the relationship between parties. For a valid claim 
under there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms 
and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. This is a key distinction here 
and an important one in the consideration of the case more broadly. However the Website 
does provide a service and for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr K, NBS and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how the ticket information that was provided by the seller (the original ticket purchaser-not the Website) is displayed to buyers. Under the 
guarantee its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller (the 
original purchaser of the tickets who is now selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil 
their obligations around supplying the tickets.
For a successful claim Mr K would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website, not as Ive said before that the Website could have done better or more. As 
Ive mentioned this service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes 
and what consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. 
Clearly in any sales process things can be done better. But NBS can only be responsible 
here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted Mr 
Ks decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Mr K feels 
the websites sales process was fair or whether he was told every possible piece of 
information he might want. Clearly there was no breach in delivering the tickets because the 
tickets that Mr K bought were supplied to him and he used them. 
Im not persuaded he was told anything that was untrue which led his to buy tickets he would 
not have bought otherwise. Lastly it doesnt make a difference whether I consider this under 
S75 or indeed S56 because a claim under the Act can only be successful if there is shown to 
be a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation. And Im not satisfied there is either 
here at any stage of the interaction between Mr K and the Website. So I dont think NBS 
should have to refund Mr K for the tickets he bought and used.
Mr K disagrees with this. And I can see he points to a number of reasons for why he 
disagrees. Ill deal with these in turn.
Official Seller
Mr K has argued that he thought when he searched for tickets online that he was looking at 
the website of the official seller of the tickets. Ive considered the Website in question from 
the time and Im satisfied it makes clear it is a secondary ticket selling website. Im not 
persuaded it holds itself out as the primary ticket seller or its agent or the official site for 
purchasing these specific tickets.
Testimony
Mr K says I should accept what he has said about what happened as fact. He says he 
didnt take the step to purchase these tickets so he should be refunded. But to my mind this 
is an oversimplification of what happened here. There are many things to consider here what 
Mr K did or didnt do, whether his phone worked properly, whether the Website worked 
properly and what NBS did do. Mr K also says that by complaining promptly afterwards this 
is consistent with him not authorising the transaction. This is true. But it is also consistent 
with him changing his mind about the transaction. Or realising after the purchase he could 
have got the tickets elsewhere cheaper. Or realising hed made a fat-finger error when 
navigating away from the website on his phone.
NBS is only responsible for what it did do. It received an instruction from the website 
showing that Mr K had entered his card details and authorised the transaction and requested 
payment. It made that payment as the request it received was in order. It has since 
considered what Mr K has said and considered the options of Chargeback and a S75 claim. 
And Mr K accepts he used the tickets. And he accepts he knew the price of the tickets when 
he put his card details in. So Im not persuaded NBS has done anything wrong by applying 
this payment to Mr Ks account.Website error
Mr K says he should not be held liable for the websites error in processing the transaction. 
But it is clear that when he complained to the website it found no failing in what it had done. 
And neither did NBS when it considered the matter. So Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence here to decide on balance that NBS incorrectly applied the cost of the tickets to his 
account.
I can see NBS paid £75 to Mr K in relation to the service it provided him. I think this is fair.
All in all I think that Mr K hasnt lost out here as I think NBS made a fair decision in not 
pursuing the chargeback. Im not persuaded that there has been a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website which NBS should be responsible for. And I think 
NBS correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mr Ks credit card account. So I dont think I 
can fairly require NBS to refund Mr K for the tickets. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
This decision does not prevent Mr K continuing his dispute with the Website directly if he 
chooses to do so. However this decision does bring to an end his dispute with NBS at this 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman