DRN-3290283
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) wrongly refused his
porting application. He also complains about the general service provided for various
reasons.
What happened
In early March 2019, Mr B signed up to a two-year fixed rate deal with Platform on his
residential mortgage. Soon after, Mr B decided he wanted to sell this property. He discussed
his options with Platform in early April 2019. In line with his mortgage terms, if Mr B was to
redeem his mortgage before the end of the fixed term, hed incur an early repayment charge
(ERC).
Mr B owned two other properties - one was unencumbered and the other was mortgaged. To
avoid paying an ERC Mr B decided to port his Platform mortgage to his other mortgaged 
property which he says was to become his main residence.
Platform said Mr Bs mortgage needed to be open for at least six months before he could
start a porting application. Mr B was fine with that as this met the timescales for the sale. 
Mr B got back in touch with Platform in October 2019 about porting his mortgage.
Timeline of key events during the porting application
7 October 2019, Mr B called Platform to start the porting process.
10 October 2019, initial fact-find took place and affordability confirmed. Advice
appointment booked for the next suitable date.
22 October 2019, Mr B couldnt take the advice call on this date, so the appointment 
was rescheduled.
5 November 2019, the rescheduled advice call took place. Mr B was sent an 
application form to complete and return.
4 November 2019, Mr Bs completed application was received by Platform.
3 December 2019, Mr Bs application was declined by the underwriters.
Unhappy with the service received, Mr B raised several complaints with Platform during the
course of his application. Ultimately, hes unhappy that his porting application was
declined. He also complains that Platform didnt take his disability into account and failed to
put reasonable adjustments in place to support him with his application. He also raised
concerns about Platforms timescales, lack of transparency during the process and other
general administration issues.
Platform responded to each of Mr Bs complaints. The only point upheld by Platform was in
relation to documents being sent to Mr Bs previous address in error. Platform paid Mr B
£50 compensation for the delay caused in him receiving the documents. Following our
involvement, Platform later increased the amount of compensation by a further £100. Mr Bs
other complaints werent upheld.
Unhappy with Platforms responses, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Platform had
fairly settled Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. More information
was sought form Platform. By this time, the original investigator had left our service. A
second investigator considered the new evidence available and explained why his opinion
was along the same lines. Mr B still didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an
ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision in January 2022. In summary I said:
Lending decision 
Platform has a broad discretion whether to lend or not in the circumstances of each 
application and I was satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably when exercising its commercial 
judgement when deciding whether to lend to Mr B in line with the rules. 
It had concerns about Mr Bs intentions for the security property and whether hed be using it 
as his main residence on a full-time basis. These concerns arose from what Mr B said about 
his living and work arrangements and the inconsistent and conflicting information presented 
during the mortgage application process. The lodger information provided by B during his 
application did not match the information on the electoral register. Mr B declared one lodger 
living at the security property, the search results showed two other names.
Given that there was enough to suggest up to three lodgers could be living at the security
property and none noted at Mr Bs unencumbered property around 100 miles closer to his 
place of work, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Platform to have concerns that the 
security property was less likely to be his main residence.
Platform gave its reason for the refusal. Mr B was given an opportunity to challenge. He 
gave his explanation for the discrepancy, including the fact that he thought Platform used an 
out of date electoral register record. Platform wasnt persuaded by Mr Bs explanation and it 
wasnt prepared to lend in the circumstances which is a decision its entitled to make if its a 
reasonable one.
Platform wasnt persuaded and, in the circumstances, I didnt think it was unreasonable to 
place more weight on the results of the searches as there were inconsistencies between 
what Mr B had said at various times and evidence Platform had found from other sources. 
When taking everything into account I didnt think it was unreasonable for lending to be 
declined at underwriting stage. 
Timescales
The delay in arranging the advice call wasnt on Platforms part. It had earlier availability but 
that didnt suit Mr B. Mr B also rearranged the first appointment which further delayed things. 
So, I couldnt hold Platform responsible in the circumstances. 
Platforms timescales for a porting application were 6-8 weeks at that time. This is in line with 
standard industry practice. After listening to the calls that took place between Platform and 
Mr B, I was satisfied that Platform made those timescales clear, and that the 6-8 weeks 
would start on return of the completed application from Mr B.  
Platform considered Mr Bs application and provided its lending decision within less than two 
weeks after receiving his completed application which was well within the set timescales.
So, when considering everything I didnt think Platforms timescales were unreasonable or 
Mr B was misled into thinking his application would be assessed sooner.
Reasonable adjustmentsMr B has Dyslexia. He says Platform failed to take his disability into account and make 
reasonable adjustments to accommodate him during his application.
From the evidence available, the first time Mr B mentioned his disability to Platform was 
during the advice call on 5 November 2019. By this point it was too late to make any 
reasonable adjustments prior to the meeting, such as sending mandatory disclaimer 
statements to Mr B ahead of the meeting as hes suggested. 
I didnt think it was wrong for Platform to proceed with this meeting in the usual way, I did 
think that once Platform became aware of Mr Bs disability on 5 November 2019, it could 
have done more to understand if he needed any further support with his application from that 
point on, such as asking if he needed the form completed on his behalf.
Platform said it would consider further support for customers by offering to complete forms 
on their behalf and allowing email contact as an alternative means of communication.
I also thought Platform should personally compensate Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not offering reasonable adjustments to meet his needs.
I thought a compensation award of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst there was an element of inconvenience caused to Mr B, he confirmed the pack was 
completed accurately, and I can see it was returned in a timely manner. So, in the absence 
of evidence to suggest otherwise, it appears Mr B was still able to submit his application in 
the usual way and within reasonable timeframes. Therefore, I was satisfied the award 
adequately reflected the inconvenience caused and any impact on Mr B.
Costs incurred
The first redemption statement request (for the 10% overpayment purpose) was delayed 
because the solicitors letterheaded was illegible. The request had to be resubmitted which 
was reasonable in the circumstances as Platform needed to be sure it was issuing personal 
information about Mr Bs account to an authorised party.
Mr B requested further redemption statements for completion purposes. As per Platforms 
tariff of charges, additional redemption statement requests are charged at £25 each. 
Platform was entitled to apply this charge in line with the mortgage terms, but I didnt think it 
was fair to charge twice in the first instance when the solicitors request had to be 
resubmitted.  
Because Mr B wasnt willing to pay the additional charges, he was advised by his solicitor to 
overpay and wait for a refund post completion. Mr B complains about how the refund was 
processed. As Mr B chose to proceed in the way advised by his solicitor, I couldnt hold 
Platform responsible for any consequences as a result.
The associated porting fees were set out during the initial calls that took place. Mr B was told
how much the porting and valuation fees were and that once payable on application the fees
would be non-refundable. Mr B called Platform in Mid-November 2019 asking to pay the
valuation fee early to expedite the process. Platform explained that paying the fee would be
at Mr Bs own risk, as his application form had only just been received and not yet vetted. Mr
B still chose to proceed.
Whilst valuation was delayed for reasons outside Mr Bs control, this didnt cause any 
detriment to the application. Mr B received his declined lending decision around two weeks 
before he completed on the sale of his property. The application was never going to be accepted in the circumstances so porting and completing at the same time was never going 
to be possible. As such, any delays caused by Platform had no impact in the circumstances.
Ancillary points raised
Platform said that it was unable to comment on the email sent to Mr B by its solicitor which 
was meant for internal purposes. I explained why I didnt think was unreasonable in the 
circumstances as the error hadnt been made by Platform. In addition, the content of the 
email was not inappropriate as Mr B has described  so not something that would cause 
Platform any concern about the conduct of its appointed representative. This was a mere 
general conversation between colleagues including nothing of an inflammatory nature or a 
breach of data.
Platform accepted that it incorrectly returned Mr Bs porting documents to the wrong
correspondence address. It offered to pay Mr B £150 compensation for the mistake. The 
documents couldnt be returned until the after the porting application had been fully 
considered. The application was declined in early December 2019. Mr B updated his 
address details in Mid-December following the sale of his property. Whilst there was some 
delay caused, the documents did eventually reach Mr B around a month later. Mr B hasnt 
said he was significantly impacted as a result of the delay, so I thought £150 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and adequality reflects the delay caused.
My provisional decision was that Platform should:
- Pay Mr B a further £200 in addition to the £150 already offered; and
- Refund Mr B £25 (if this was charged) at the time of asking his solicitor to re-submit its first 
redemption statement request.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Platform accepted my provisional 
findings, Mr B didnt. 
In summary Mr B said that whilst he accepts its ultimately Platforms decision whether to 
lend or not, he didnt think it was fair to wait until the associated fees had been paid to 
decline his application. Especially as the underwriters were consulted on various occasions 
during the application process, so there was plenty of opportunity to have queried these 
matters sooner. 
Mr B elaborated on his living and lodger arrangements further and has explained why he 
feels the outcome of his application was impacted by the lack of reasonable adjustments 
made to support him during the process. Mr B also disagrees that the porting timescales and 
associated costs (including the redemption fee charge) were made clear to him in advance 
of them being paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
Mr B has raised various points in response to my provisional decision  some of which is 
repeating what he said before which Ive already been considered. Mr B has provided 
many reasons why hes dissatisfied with Platforms service. But ultimately, hes unhappy 
that his porting application was declined, and he wasnt given a lending decision sooner. Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made to date, but I wont address 
each and every point that has been raised.  Ill focus on the matters that I consider most 
relevant to how Ive reached my decision  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
I appreciate Mr B says that his circumstances had not changed since the time of his initial 
application with Platform. Whilst that may be the case, each application is considered on a 
case by case basis. For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
Platform fairly exercised its discretion whether to lend to Mr B on this occasion.
The application was declined because the underwriters had concerns Mr B would not be 
using the security property as his main residence  a key requirement for a residential 
mortgage. The underwriters assess each application from a risk perspective. When 
considering various factors, including the information given by Mr B during his application 
and the search results obtained, Platform decided not to lend as the risk was one it wasnt 
willing to take on this occasion. As mentioned, lenders have a broad discretion when 
making lending decisions and for reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont 
think Platform made an unreasonable decision in the circumstances when taking into 
account everything it knew at the time. 
In my provisional decision I considered Mr Bs concerns about not being able to discuss his 
situation with the underwriters directly  but Ill expand on this further for his benefit. I agree 
that during the application process the staff Mr B spoke to, checked with the underwriters 
whether Mr Bs certain circumstances were acceptable for the application to proceed. A 
final lending decision will only be made once the full application has been submitted after 
considering all the supporting documents provided, including things like, but not limited to  
the application itself, the valuation report, searches, payslips and bank statements etc. So, 
Im satisfied Platform followed the usual lending process by assessing the full application at 
underwriting stage. 
When Mr B was told his application had been declined, he was given the chance to explain 
his circumstances and the situation with the lodgers further. The underwriter revisited the 
application, but their decision remained unchanged. Mr B is unhappy that he couldnt speak 
to the underwriters directly himself. Underwriting teams are not customer facing staff and will 
not make direct contact with customers as this amounts to a conflict of interest. In this case, 
all questions and discussions were handled by the relevant team and Mr Bs comments were 
passed to the underwriter as Id expect. So, I cant say Platform did anything wrong in the 
circumstances. 
The final lending decision was made taking into account all the information available at the 
time. Mr B has continued to provide further information about his and his lodgers 
circumstances during the course of his complaint. Its not my role to consider any new 
information to decide whether the application should have been accepted or not. I must only 
consider whether Platform made a reasonable lending decision at the time based on what it 
knew at the time. For the reason Ive explained, I think it did.  
Mr B still contests that the porting timescales werent made clear to him. As per my 
provisional findings, Ive explained why Im satisfied clear information was given about 
Platforms timescales  which were in line with standard industry practice. I provided a 
timeline of events and explained why I didnt think Platform was responsible for the delays 
in arranging the advice appointment. Ive also explained why it would not be logical to start 
the process any sooner than on receipt of application - once Mr Bs application had been 
returned Platform provided its lending decision within a reasonable timescale. So, Im 
satisfied this matter has been adequately addressed.Mr B asks why he wasnt given the opportunity to complete the application form himself prior 
to the advice meeting to reduce the delay. This is not a lenders process. An advice meeting 
is just that  a meeting to receive advice about suitable mortgage products. Its after that 
point a customer is sent an application form to complete based on what was discussed. I 
wouldnt expect Platform to alter its process. In any event I dont think the timescales were 
impacted by this as the advice meeting would still need to take place which was delayed by 
Mr B and once that meeting took place, Platform issued its lending decision within 
reasonable timescales. 
Mr B says his application was refused because Platform didnt provide the right support 
during the process. I had provisionally decided that Platform could have done more in the 
circumstances to accommodate Mr Bs needs. But I dont think Mr Bs application was 
refused as a result. Ive referred to the medical assessment evidence provided by Mr B and 
relied on the information he gave about his ability to complete his application form. Mr B has 
said that he was able to complete his application form accurately, Ive also seen that hes 
been able to articulate himself well during this complaint. 
These factors influenced my decision when deciding a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation when considering the impact on Mr B. But I dont think these circumstances 
impacted Platforms lending decision. Ive set out the reasons behind Platforms concerns 
about Mr Bs intentions for the security property, this was based on a combination of what he 
said during his application and the evidence revealed from the searches. Im not persuaded 
any additional support would have changed things in the circumstances. 
As explained a lending decision is only made at underwriting stage of the process, not 
before. Mr B met the criteria to proceed with an application but at underwriting stage, when 
considering everything, the underwriter declined the application. To get to this stage all the 
associated fees needed to be paid upfront and as explained to Mr B these were non-
refundable.  So, I didnt think Platform wrongly charged the valuation or porting fee or that 
they should be refunded. 
I did decide that, if charged, Mr B should be refunded the fee for the duplicate redemption 
statement when the solicitor needed to resubmit its request. But Platform was acting in 
accordance with its terms when requesting a fee for any further requests. Mr B was sent a 
letter about the important changes to his tariff of charges in May 2019 which included the 
introduction of an additional redemption statement fee of £25. Platform has sent a system 
screen shot showing the letter was sent. Having read this letter, I can see it was addressed 
correctly so I think it was most likely correctly delivered. So, Im satisfied Mr B was made 
aware of the important changes to his account.
I appreciate there were some delays caused on Platforms part when arranging the valuation 
and processing some administration, but for reasons Ive explained this did not impact Mr 
Bs application in any way. Whilst I appreciate there was an element of inconvenience 
caused to Mr B by having to call Platform to rectify matters, the issues were resolved within 
reasonable timescales and I think the amount of compensation awarded acknowledges the 
overall inconvenience caused. 
On a final point Im unable to comment on the action of HMRC and how it classified Mr Bs 
property for stamp duty land tax purposes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint direct The Co-
operative Bank Plc trading as Platform to:- Pay Mr B a further £200 in addition to the £150 already offered; and
- Refund Mr B £25 (if this was charged) at the time of asking his solicitor to re-submit
its first redemption statement request.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman