DRN-3726518
The complaint
Miss N complains through her representative that Studio Retail Limited trading as Studio 
irresponsibly provided her with, and increased the credit limit on, a mail order account so she 
couldnt afford the repayments. She also complains that it raised the interest rate to an 
unacceptable level without giving her notice.
What happened
Studio provided Miss N with a credit account in November 2018 (Miss N disputes this and 
says it was earlier). The initial credit limit was £150. This was raised up to the following 
levels on the following dates :
5/1/19  £200
5/5/19  £250
5/7/19  £300
5/11/19 £450
5/12/19 £750
5/4/20  £875
5/11/20 £1,600
5/12/21 £1,675
Miss N paid the full account up before January 2019 on a monthly basis. After that she 
started being charged interest. The account balance never exceeded the £750 credit limit in 
December 2019, and following her complaint to Studio in February 2022, it suspended all 
orders on the account. Miss N says that because she was on benefits for the whole time 
Studio should never have increased the credit limit without carrying out proper checks, and 
now she has trouble keeping up with the payments. She believes the interest rate (currently 
49.9% APR) is extortionate and has increased by over 20% since she took out the account.
Our investigator said that Studio carried out proportionate checks to set the first credit limit. 
But from October to December 2019 when the limit was raised to £750 it should have carried 
out further checks on Miss Ns income and expenditure to assess the affordability of those 
increases. However Miss N had maintained her account in good order and didnt miss any 
payments. She wasnt able to produce any bank statements from the time of the increases 
or a credit report to show that the limits were unaffordable. 
For the credit limit increases from after December 2019, our investigator said she hadnt 
looked at these because Miss N hadnt exceeded the £750 limit, so hadnt incurred any 
interest charges above that limit.
 
Miss N disagreed, pointing out that the interest rate on Studios website was 10% less than 
what she was being charged and that as it was at fault for not doing the checks it should 
compensate her. Our investigator pointed out that the website showed a representative, not 
a guaranteed rate.
Miss N disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Studio complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss N 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss N would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Studio ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Ns indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
As regards the date of the start of the account, Miss N says she had a credit account in 2017 
with a credit limit. Studios records start in November 2018, when there was a £0 balance. 
Though Ive noted that its spreadsheet is headed statements post 8/10/2017. So it seems 
likely that Miss N had a Studio account from at least October 2017 and either didnt have a 
credit account until November 2018 or she didnt use any credit until after that date. Either 
way the initial limit was £150. From the way these sorts of accounts are usually run it seems 
unlikely that that limit would have stayed the same for over a year. However it doesnt really 
have any bearing on Miss Ns complaint when that initial limit was set.  
We dont have much information from the setting of the initial limit. The initial check 
appeared to show that Miss N didnt have any defaults or missed payments on her record, 
nor any CCJs (County Court Judgments) and a low level of credit. Based on that initial limit I 
think the checks done were proportionate and that it was reasonable to assess that Miss N 
could afford the payments associated with that limit.
The limit was increased by stages of £50 until November 2019 and December 2019 when it 
was increased respectively to £450 and £750. I do think that by this time Studio couldnt rely 
on just an external check to assess Miss Ns credit score and its internal checks of her 
account status. It should have carried out further checks including an income and 
expenditure check and verification of Miss Ns income. 
But I cant assume that Studio was at fault without further information about Miss Ns 
assertion that she couldnt afford the credit. Ive noted that she was on benefits though this 
wouldnt be a reason on its own to decline credit. Her account was kept in good order. For 
example she wasnt charged any interest from August 2019 until June 2020 and from 
November 2020 until November 2021. This showed that she was managing to pay for any 
items bought without having to rely on the credit.
Further we have asked Miss N to provide bank statements and a credit report. Either of these might have shown that she was in financial difficulties. But she hasnt been able to 
provide these. She has shown us some screenshots of her current credit record but these 
just show that she does have some accounts e.g. utility accounts, another online shopping 
account and a telecommunications account. They dont show that Miss N was in any 
difficulties at the time of the credit limit increases.
From the information Ive seen even if Studio had carried out further checks I cant say that 
those checks would have shown that the credit was unaffordable, especially in light of the 
way Miss N had maintained her account. To be clear we can ask businesses to pay 
compensation or take other action if we find them to be at fault and it can be shown that the 
consumer has lost out, but we dont have the power to fine or impose penalties on them.
As for the credit limit increases after December 2019 these are largely academic as Miss Ns 
account has never had balances in excess of the December 2019 limit. However the same 
provisos apply to those increases that is whilst Studio should have carried out more checks I 
havent seen evidence that those limit increases were unaffordable.
As regards the interest rate, Studio has shown us that this was 49.9% APR and was shown 
on statements from at least February 2019, and the January 2019 interest charge based on 
the previous balance appears to bear this out. So, this doesnt bear out Miss Ns contention 
that she was charged a 19% rate initially. Whilst Studios website shows a representative 
rate of 39.9% this doesnt mean its charged in all cases. Im satisfied that Miss N was 
advised of the interest rate charged and of the increases in the credit limit.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman