DRN-3756905
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly recorded adverse 
information against her account in relation to an overdraft.
 
What happened
Miss B held a bank account with Halifax. Her wages were paid into this account, and she 
used it to manage her general outgoings. In 2015 she applied to Halifax for a loan of £2,000. 
Its unclear exactly why Miss B needed the loan, as I can see she initially said it was to 
support her with travelling to the USA due to a relative having fallen seriously ill; but shes 
also said she took out the loan as she was splitting with her partner at the time, and needed  
funds urgently for a deposit. 
But reasons for the loan aside, it seems there were some technical issues with it being put 
into place, and Halifax were unable to arrange it in time for her potential trip. So Halifax 
agreed instead, to extend Miss Bs overdraft by around the same amount, to give her access 
to the funds needed. And they said she could sign the required loan paperwork when she 
returned, and use the loan monies to repay the overdraft. They also said theyd look to cover 
fees that may be charged in relation to the overdraft, and would compensate Miss B £50 for 
the inconvenience of the matter. 
Following the overdraft being arranged, the loan was then never organised, and its unclear 
why this was. But it seems both Halifax and Miss B agree that no loan paperwork was 
signed for. So, as a result, the overdraft remained in place. 
Miss B says she attempted to make arrangements to repay the overdraft with Halifax. She 
didnt want her available funds being taken each month when money was paid into her 
account, because she needed this to live off of. But she said Halifax wouldnt agree to a 
plan, so she told them theyd need to ring her when they wanted to set one up. Shes also 
explained that she moved address on multiple occasions around this time, and felt it wasnt 
her responsibility to make Halifax aware when her address changed. 
Halifax say they did arrange a repayment plan for Miss B to repay the overdraft, but the 
repayment plan failed, and they couldnt arrange a further plan as Miss B had already 
reached the maximum amount allowed on the account. They did however, pay Miss B £20 
for any inconvenience caused. Unhappy with this, Miss B referred her case to our service.
An investigator considered Miss Bs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she was satisfied that Miss B was required to make payments towards the overdraft, and 
that previous payment plans arranged with Halifax had failed. So, she didnt think Halifax 
were wrong to close the account and forward the debt to a third party. But she said she 
couldnt comment on the county court judgment (CCJ) that was issued, as this was 
registered by a third party. 
Miss B remained unhappy with the outcome, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are differing opinions over the versions of events that took place, and I appreciate that 
this matter has spanned a long period of time, so I understand how recollections of events 
may vary. My findings, however, will focus on whether it was reasonable for Halifax to close 
Miss Bs account, and ultimately sell her debt to a third-party as a result of non-payment of 
the account. I wont be making a finding on whether it was fair for a CCJ to be registered, as 
this was carried out by a third-party, and I cant make a finding on the actions of another 
company when considering Miss Bs complaint against Halifax.
When Miss B took out the overdraft, I appreciate this was never her initial intention. It seems 
that both parties agree this was a temporary arrangement, due to the fact that the loan 
applied for, could not be fully processed due to a technical issue. But both parties agreed to 
this overdraft, and Halifax also agreed to pay a small amount of compensation to Miss B to 
address any inconvenience this may have caused. 
While the intention was for Miss B to repay this overdraft with the new loan shed applied for, 
it seems clear that this never transpired, so the overdraft remained payable. I appreciate this 
must have been frustrating for Miss B given what shes told us, and I accept that she agreed 
to this as an alternate solution, which she intended to be temporary. But just because the 
loan ultimately did not come about, this doesnt mean that Miss B was not required to repay 
the overdraft.
Miss B argues that she did try to make arrangements to pay the overdraft facility but said 
that Halifax wouldnt agree to this.
Having looked at the history of Miss Bs account, I can see that Halifax had previously 
applied breathing space to Miss Bs account back in February 2015 when Miss B was off 
work due to a back injury. They then made a further payment arrangement in 2016, shortly 
after the loan in question did not go ahead, where they agreed Miss B would repay around 
£100 a month. But this arrangement failed after just one payment. 
As Miss B had now had two separate arrangements on the account, and the second had 
failed after just one payment, Halifax have said at this stage, they werent in a position to 
arrange any further plans. On balance, I think that decision was reasonable. 
Miss B explained that following the failed payment plans, shed moved home on several 
occasions following the overdraft being taken out, so says she would not have received 
some of the letters that Halifax would have sent chasing payments. She also says that it 
wasnt her responsibility to update her address with Halifax, if they wouldnt agree to a plan. 
But the terms of Miss Bs account clearly state that  We will contact you using the contact 
details you give us. You must tell us if your name or contact details change. If you do not tell 
us, we will go on using the details you last gave us, and we will not be responsible if we fail 
to contact you or if we send confidential information to the wrong address using out of date 
details. We may charge you our reasonable costs of finding you (or trying to find you) if your 
contact details are not up to date. So, if Miss B failed to receive correspondence from 
Halifax as a result of a change of address that she didnt inform Halifax of, then I would not 
hold Halifax responsible for this. Ultimately, Im satisfied that Halifax met its obligations here 
by contacting Miss B at the last address it held for her. I accept there has been some confusion with the original arranging of the loan; and the 
reasons for needing the loan initially still remain unclear. But I can see that at the time 
Halifax passed the overdraft debt onto a third party in 2021, Miss B had made only one 
payment towards the overdraft since 2016, with all other credits to the account, Miss B 
having requested be reimbursed. 
So, in summary, Miss B failed to repay a debt she owed; didnt stick to the agreed 
repayment plans and didnt contact Halifax to let it know shed changed address. And given 
those circumstances, I dont find that Halifax has made an error in the way its dealt with 
Miss Bs overdraft debt. I think Halifax was right to record adverse information against 
Miss B, close her account and pass her debt to a third party. 
So, for these reasons, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman