DRN-1584079
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked access to his online banking, delayed 
two international payments, and failed to process a third payment. He accuses the bank of 
targeting him because of his race.
What happened
Mr L, who was a sole trader at the time of the events this complaint is about, had a business 
account with Barclays. The account was in his trading name, which I will call P. He is now 
the director of a new limited company of the same name, but as the company was not 
incorporated until after the events I am going to describe, this is Mr Ls complaint and not his 
companys. (However, until now  our final stage  this has been described as Ps complaint, 
and so for the sake of consistency I have not changed the name under which this complaint 
has been logged in our records.)
In April and May 2019, Mr L tried to make three international payments from his Barclays 
account, all in Euros and all to the same customer. The first two payments were for a five-
figure sum, and the third was for a four-figure sum. He expected the payments to be made 
quickly, but the first two were delayed by a day, and the third was not made at all. He ended 
up having to make the third payment from his own personal account, three days late. He 
says this seriously damaged his reputation among his customers, and caused him significant 
loss of business, for which he wishes to be compensated.
In May, Mr L complained to Barclays about the payments. He also complained that he had 
not had access to online banking for the last three weeks. He said that he has been the 
victim of racism by the bank. Barclays did not provide him with a response to his complaint 
within eight weeks, and so he brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not think that anything that had happened was due to racism. He 
accepted the banks explanation that the two payments had been delayed by normal anti-
fraud measures. But he said there was no explanation for the total failure of the third 
payment, and that this was a failing by the bank. He thought that the bank had been entitled 
to block Mr Ls access to online banking while it was waiting for him to provide his identity 
documents in a branch, in connection with the first payment in April. But after he had done 
that, and Barclays had accepted that the first payment was genuine, the block should have 
been lifted, bit it had not been. He thought that fair compensation for these errors would be 
£400.
Mr L did not think that £400 was enough to reflect the impact this matter has had on his 
mental health; he asked for more. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned 
to an ombudsman for a decision. I began working on this case immediately.
Having considered all of the evidence, I dont think that what happened was the result of 
racism, although I recognise that Mr L may still feel that this is the most obvious explanation. 
However, given the large sums of money involved in the first two payments, it is quite 
normal, in my experience, for such payments to be temporarily blocked until extra steps 
have been taken to verify that they are genuine. This is to protect customers from fraud, and 
it happens to everybody. I think the same thing about the decision to block the online 
banking facility.
Once the bank had verified that the first payment was genuine, the online banking should 
have been restored the same day. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, but I expect this was 
just an oversight and not deliberate. I agree with our investigator that this merits 
compensation.
I dont know why the third payment didnt go through. This was certainly an error, but I dont 
think it would be fair for me to infer that it must have been because of racism just because 
no other reason has been put forward. Sometimes things just go wrong, and it isnt always 
because someone acted in bad faith. 
For both of these mistakes, I think that £400 is in line with what this Service would typically 
award. I recognise that the failure of the third payment, which resulted in a delay of three 
days, caused Mr L financial loss. But I dont think it would be fair to order Barclays to refund 
him for that. I think that partly because Mr L says that the loss of business was the result of 
all three payments being made late, but I dont think the bank was wrong to delay the first 
two payments  I am only upholding this complaint in relation to the third one. But the main 
reason is because the terms and conditions of a Barclays business account say, at clause 
8.20, that Barclays will not be liable for loss of business, loss of goodwill, loss of opportunity 
or loss of profit if it fails to process a payment.1
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr L £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.barclays.co.uk/business-banking/manage/terms-and-conditions/ 