DRN-3406863
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his home insurer, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited as it 
refused his claim for damage to his garage and most of its contents caused by a fire (the 
bicycles in the garage were covered).
What happened
Mr B arranged a policy with Lloyds on-line. He says he felt this covered his garage as part of 
his home. But when there was a fire in the garage and Mr B made a claim to Lloyds it said 
that as the garage is detached from the house Mr B needed outbuildings cover for it and its 
contents (with the exception of the bikes which had separate cover). Which he did not have. 
So the claim was declined. 
When Mr B complained to us our investigator looked at the on-line journey Mr B had taken 
and felt it had been clear that detached garages were considered to be outbuildings, 
requiring separate cover. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B felt he must have seen 
something different as covering his garage had always been important to him. He thought 
there had been a description of private residence which said that was anything within the 
propertys boundaries. And he said it was telling that Lloyds did not provide a definition of 
what attached and detached meant. He said his garage was attached because it had things 
like electricity running to it from the house. His complaint was passed to me for 
consideration.
I felt it should be upheld due to a lack of clarity in the policy wording that applied at the time 
of the fire. My provisional findings were:
Definitions
An insurer, whether as part of an on-line application or as part of the policy, cant reasonably 
give a definition for every word used. Rather an insurer will provide a definition for any words 
with specific meanings for the insurance cover, and any other words used in the application 
or policy will have their ordinary everyday meaning. So in terms of buildings; attached would 
mean where the two buildings are built together, and detached would mean the buildings are 
separated. The fact that pipes or cables run between buildings which sit separately from one 
another doesnt mean they are attached or not detached. 
Mis-sale
I know Mr B feels he was mis-sold this policy. But Im not persuaded that is the case. Ive no 
reason to doubt that the on-line journey details Lloyds sent us are correct. The fact that Mr B 
recalls them differently, doesnt mean they most likely were different. The journey does 
include pop-up boxes which contain extra explanatory detail. But whether or not Mr B 
accessed these, the detail presented on the screen, without the need to select any help 
icons, explained about garages. That only those attached were included within private 
residence cover. I think that is clear. But the problem for Lloyds comes with its wording in its 
policy booklet.
Policy wording
There is a basic rule in insurance, the legal name for which is contra proferentem. This 
means that in essence a policy provided by an insurer must be clear. But if it is not clear 
then it must be interpreted in favour of the policyholder.  
Lloyds sent us a policy booklet which it said applied at the time of the fire. The booklet is 
dated March 2019 and the fire occurred in September 2020. So Ive no reason to think it 
wasnt the wording which applied at the time of the fire. 
The policy booklet contains various definitions. Including buildings, outbuildings, private 
residence and home. I have no issue with what they say or their clarity. In short they show 
that detached garages are considered to be outbuildings, the buildings are any structures, 
including things like paths, of the private residence which is the house, along with any 
attached or integrated structures. And the home is everything together. There is a lot of 
wording behind this simple summary. But I do think the definitions are clear.
The lack of clarity comes when the wording turns to the cover for buildings and contents. 
Each of these sections of the policy are split into further subsections. The first subsection in 
each is titled Private residence cover. Each of these subsections starts with a similar piece 
of wording that sets the reader up for what the further detail in that subsection  about what 
we do/what we dont cover  is referencing. Ive copied these starting paragraphs below, 
applying the same emphasis as in the policy. 
In the buildings section it says:
Private residence cover
This section applies if you have Buildings  Private residence cover  this is shown in your 
policy schedule. The following covers are provided under your Buildings  Private 
residence cover and apply to both your private residence and your outbuildings.
It covers the buildings of your private residence and also provides some cover for your 
home (which is both your private residence and your outbuildings).
In the contents section it says:
Private residence cover
This section applies if you have Contents  Private residence cover  this is shown in your 
policy schedule. It covers the contents in your private residence and also provides some 
cover for the contents in your home (which is both your private residence and your 
outbuildings).
Each subsection goes on to detail the cover provided. Such as for fire. There is no further 
indication in these subsections  either that which applies to buildings or contents cover  
that outbuildings, or contents in outbuildings, are not being covered within or as part of the 
private residence cover subsections. 
Lloyds may well be able to provide an explanation of why the reference to outbuildings is 
included as part of this explanatory paragraph. And I think it is likely that Lloyds did not mean 
to cause any lack of clarity by wording the policy in this way. But a reasonable reading of the 
subsections suggests that cover for outbuildings can be found and/or is provided within/as 
part of the cover for private residence. So that interpretation must be applied when thinking 
about Mr Bs claim. And Mr B did have private residence cover showing on his policy 
schedule, for both buildings and contents. So I think Lloyds must cover his claim for fire to 
his detached garage and its contents as though this outbuilding was covered under the 
private residence subsections of the policy, both for buildings and contents. 
Financial and non-financial lossI know Mr B has attempted to clear the garage and contents himself. Lloyds will have to 
compensate him for any financial loss he suffered doing this  such as for skips and the like. 
Mr B should present any invoices to Lloyds for reimbursement. Reimbursement will have to 
be made plus interest* from the date Mr B paid the invoice until settlement is made.    
But doing this was distressing and difficult for Mr B. I can also see he has been frustrated 
over the decline of his claim. Im satisfied that £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is fairly and reasonably due.
Mr B said he accepted the decision. Lloyds said it disagreed with it.
In summary Lloyds said:
A previous policy which Mr B held jointly with another policyholder did include the 
additional cover for outbuildings  so Mr B must have known additional cover was 
needed, which would generate a higher premium, but chose not to select it.
The clarity of the individual terms is not as important as the bigger picture provided by all 
the information within all the policy documents as a whole.
The customer is responsible for reviewing all the documents to make sure the policy, as 
a whole, suits their needs.
An assessment of the documents as a whole shows that Mr Bs garage wasnt covered, 
and he should have known that.
The wording of the buildings cover clearly explains that outbuildings are only covered as 
standard against certain perils.
The contents section of the policy does specifically exclude contents in outbuildings, 
although cover for damage to the home, referenced in subsection 19 of the cover, does 
include damage to outbuildings as they are part of the home.
The policy, overall, is clear enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the detail Lloyds has provided about the previous policy held jointly by Mr B and 
another. But I note it was arranged in August 2018, and whilst it renewed automatically in 
August 2019, it was cancelled in October 2019. Mr B then arranged this policy with Lloyds in 
September 2020. So that was more than two years from when the other policy was 
arranged, and one year (on average) from its renewal and cancellation. Both are quite a long 
time. I dont think I can fairly assume that Mr B knew or reasonably should have been able to 
recall the finer points of the previous cover when the new policy was arranged. And 
I certainly dont think Mr B knowingly risked taking a lower level of cover in the hope that, 
should it be necessary, he could find a way to obtain the further cover he needed.
But, in any event, Im not persuaded that, in the circumstances here, what he knew when 
arranging cover, is really that relevant. 
For an experienced person, I think the cover provided by Lloyds, when all the detail within all 
the policy document are taken into consideration, is clear. But a policyholder, taken to be an 
average consumer, is seen to be generally inexperienced. As such each term of a policy has 
to be clear, in and of itself. 
The full wording of the buildings cover does include a list of perils. But listing those perils 
doesnt diminish the lack of clarity caused by the further reference to outbuildings that appears at the end of that section of wording. I remain of the view that, that section of 
wording is unclear.
I note there is an exclusion in the contents section for contents in outbuildings. And that 
subsection 19 does refer to cover for the home. So, if the reader looks at the whole 
contents section, then they may well understand that, apart from in respect to the cover 
provided by subsection 19, there is no cover under this section for contents in outbuildings. 
But as I noted above, an assessment of everything together shouldnt be necessary to 
provide clarity for an individual term.
In summary, whilst Ive considered Lloyds explanation in reply  both in respect of how the 
policy works as a whole and the specific terms detailing the buildings and contents cover, 
I remain of the view there is a lack of clarity. That lack of clarity  in the specific terms 
I quoted provisionally  means that, in my view, Lloyds must handle Mr Bs claim for fire 
damage to his detached garage and contents, as though cover for that was available as part 
of the private residence cover he held.  
Putting things right
I require Lloyds to:
Consider Mr Bs claim for his fire damaged garage and its contents under the private 
residence cover (for buildings and contents), as though outbuildings fall under that 
cover. The consideration should be done sympathetically given Mr B has had to clear 
away much of the damage and damaged items, and this may affect the level of proof he 
is able to present in validation of his loss. He should not be penalised for that. Settlement 
for Mr Bs claim should otherwise be made in line with the policys remaining terms and 
conditions.
If Mr B has incurred any costs in clearing the garage debris and contents, reimburse his 
outlay, subject to him providing invoices, and with interest* applied from the date the 
invoice was paid until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman