DRN-3296887
The complaint
Ill refer to the policyholder business in this case as T. T is unhappy with CNA Insurance 
Company Limited as it declined to pay costs following a sewage leak under a commercial 
construction policy.
All representatives involved in the claim from the insurers point of view will be referred to as 
CNA.
What happened
A sewage leak occurred, and T acted quickly to investigate and deal with the leak due to the 
potential danger it might cause to the property insured and to the neighbours. Afterwards T 
made a claim to CNA and produced invoices for these costs totalling £1,140.
CNA declined to pay. It said T was purely rectifying its own original work when it dealt with 
the leak. CNA said it had no request to agree the investigation costs of putting right the leak 
in advance. CNA noted that although the neighbours had made initial contact with T no 
formal claim or details of any negligence on Ts part had been produced. CNA also pointed 
out the policy has a £2,500 excess which would mean the amount would have been 
absorbed by T as it was under the excess. Unhappy with this T brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the excess exceeded the investigation 
costs. Our investigator said CNA would only cover such costs for claims that had already 
been formally logged. She concluded CNA wouldnt be liable to cover Ts investigation costs. 
T remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a
decision.
In my recent provisional decision I said
I can understand why T acted quickly to investigate and deal with the sewage leak. This 
would have been a concern for T in relation to its own property and in relation to the 
neighbours.
Im not sure that CNA has clearly and fully explained why Ts costs arent being reimbursed. 
I understand the point CNA makes about it cant deal with any claim from any third party 
neighbours because one hasnt been forthcoming yet. But this part of the claim is from T for 
expense it has paid out and the amount is not disputed. CNA said it cant pay out for Ts own 
work that needed to be rectified but I note there is no detail about what work T had got 
wrong that caused the leak. Also, Ts broker pointed out that if CNA had been contacted first 
and carried out the claim investigation it wouldnt then expect T to pay those costs. So, it 
appears that T is potentially losing out as it did everything it could to act as if it wasnt 
insured and put right a problem before it got any worse. I dont think thats a fair outcome.
The costs involved are lower than the excess, but I agree with the broker that CNA wouldnt 
be able to request a refund of these from T if T had just made a claim and left the sewage 
leak to CNA to resolve.
Its clear from the amount of correspondence on the file that the decision not to refund the 
costs to T was a tricky one due to the ambiguity around what the policy says and the 
different interpretations being applied by the different parties. From my point of view, I think 
that suggests quite strongly that in such situations T shouldnt be left out of pocket when 
there is such ambiguity in the policy terms and conditions. Any ambiguity in such situations 
should work out in favour of the policyholder, in this case  T.
CNA said it had not granted consent for T to get on with the investigation and create any 
costs. But T has to act in a way to mitigate any losses. In this case its clear that costs could 
have grown and the potential for a negligence claim would be greatly enhanced the longer 
the leak went on for. I dont think theres any dispute that the leak occurred. But this means 
the current outcome is T gets penalised when it could have asked CNA to investigate the 
claim and pick up the costs of investigation. I dont think thats fair.
I think normally CNA would have incurred costs to investigate such a claim and wouldnt 
have expected T to reimburse it. CNA would log the costs against Ts claim record as it 
would have had expenses (such as the costs T has paid for here) even if it didnt have to pay 
a specific claim. I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for CNA to pay Ts costs of 
£1,140 in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Only one response was received to say there was no further information to submit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the response theres no reason for me to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Refund T the costs it incurred of £1,140.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require CNA Insurance Company Limited to:
Refund T the costs it incurred of £1,140.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman