DRN-3410831
The complaint
Miss T complained because TSB Bank plc recorded a marker against her name on the anti-
fraud database CIFAS.
What happened
Miss T opened an account with TSB on 16 December 2020. On 13 January 2021, a 
£6543.79 credit was paid into the account, and immediately transferred out by faster 
payment to an account elsewhere which was in the joint names of Miss T and another 
person. TSB then received information that the money paid into Miss Ts account had been 
the proceeds of a scam. It blocked the account. 
Miss T rang TSB about the block on her account. She said she had a joint account 
elsewhere with someone, and she thought that person might have logged into her TSB 
account. The adviser asked if shed given her bank details to someone else to transfer 
money through her account. Miss T sad she had an account elsewhere with that person, so 
she thought she might as well share her TSB account with him too. The adviser said she 
couldnt do that under the terms and conditions. 
The adviser asked a number of questions. These included asking whether Miss T had been 
expecting the £6543.79 credit. She replied that she didnt know much about it and didnt care 
if TSB took it away. The adviser asked whether Miss T had transferred the money out, or her 
friend, and she said her friend. 
The adviser told Miss T that based on her replies the account would immediately be closed. 
Miss T said oh, ok. TSBs adviser asked Miss T whether she had any questions. In reply, 
Miss T asked whether there was any money left in the account. The adviser said there was 
£43.54 which TSB would take out, but which it wouldnt be providing to Miss T. Miss T said 
oh thats fine, thats all right and the call ended. 
TSB sent the remaining £43.54 balance to the bank of the person whod been scammed, 
and closed Miss Ts account. It recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against Miss Ts name, 
which would stay on her name for six years.
Miss T complained. In TSBs final response letter, it said that it wasnt required to give Miss 
T notice to close her account in these circumstances. It said Miss T had told them shed 
given her bank details to someone else, which wasnt allowed under the terms and 
conditions. TSB also said that, in line with its duties as a regulated financial service, it 
confirmed that it had applied a CIFAS marker against Miss T, and on review it was satisfied 
that it had applied the marker correctly.
Miss T complained to this service. She said that when shed phoned TSB, she hadnt been 
able fully to tell it the way she wanted to. She said the way she explained it made it look as if 
she gave her bank details to her friend but she hadnt. She said she wouldnt do anything to 
jeopardise her banking and it was now causing issues with other banks too. She said she 
was innocent and wanted it resolved because it had caused her stress because TSB 
wouldnt hear her out. She said she had every right for the CIFAS marker to be taken off 
because TSB was unfair and she hated having to prove her innocence. She said she didnt 
get to say this in the phone call because she hadnt wanted TSB to record the phone call.
Our investigator asked Miss T for more information. Miss T had told our investigator that 
shed fallen out with her friend after what happened, as hed used her phone for the 
transactions, so the investigator asked for any messages or other evidence of that. The 
investigator also asked how the friend had got access to Miss Ts phone. Miss T replied that 
shed left her phone with the friend for a while, because she needed him to do something for 
her. She said she didnt have any messages or evidence about having fallen out with him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. She noted that Miss T had given this 
service a different account of events from the version Miss T had told TSB in her phone call. 
She said she didnt think there was enough evidence to confirm Miss Ts second account of 
what happened. And she thought TSB had grounds tor recording the CIFAS marker, so she 
wouldnt be asking TSB to remove it.
Miss T didnt accept this. She said she was innocent, and would have just left it by now if she 
hadnt been innocent. She said she hadnt done anything wrong but it was her friend. She 
said she was the victim and she wouldnt rest until it was fixed. 
The complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to the call recording from when Miss T rang TSB.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It maintains a large database, in order to protect 
financial organisations and their customers against fraud. The criteria for member 
organisations to record information with CIFAS is that it must be supported by evidence, and 
meet four requirements:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial Crime has been 
committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct to the police;
The conduct must meet the criteria of one of the CIFAS case types. In Miss Ts case, 
this was that there had been a misuse of a facility;
The organisation recording the marker must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated a 
product on the basis of fraud.
This means that a bank cant apply a CIFAS marker if it just suspects fraud. It needs to have 
evidence to back that up, with a criminal offence identifiable, so it could confidently report the 
customer to the police. So there is a high standard of proof required.
Ive considered whether TSB acted fairly, and in line with the strict requirements of CIFAS, 
when it applied a CIFAS marker against Miss Ts name. I find that it did. The evidence it had 
showed that a criminal offence had been committed, with proceeds of a scam being credited 
to Miss Ts account. The money was then immediately moved to an account elsewhere, of 
which Miss T was a joint account holder. I recognise that Miss T says shes innocent, and 
that her friend was responsible. But Ive listened very carefully to the phone call recording, and in that, Miss T said shed given her TSB details to her friend. She said they had a joint 
account elsewhere so she thought she might as well share her TSB account with him too.
This is different from what Miss T later told our investigator  when she said she gave her 
phone to the friend to do something, and hed received the fraudulent money and transferred 
it. She said shed then fallen out with the friend - but said shed deleted the messages which 
proved that.
I also note that in the call with TSB, Miss T made no objection when she was told the 
account would be closed immediately. Shes since said that on that call, TSB wouldnt hear 
her out but listening to the recording, thats clearly not correct. TSBs advisor was polite and 
specifically asked Miss T whether she had any questions. In response, Miss T just asked if 
there was any money left  and when TSB said it wouldnt be returning the £43.54 to her, 
Miss T just accepted it. 
Miss T has also said she didnt get to say what she wanted in the TSB phone call, because 
she hadnt wanted TSB to record the phone call. Im not persuaded that a call being 
recorded by a bank would be a valid reason for an innocent person not to say what they 
wanted to.
In view of the evidence which TSB had about what had happened, I consider it acted fairly, 
and in line with the strict requirements of CIFAS, when it recorded the marker against her.
Finally, for completeness, TSB also had the power to close Miss Ts account immediately. 
Section 16 of the terms and conditions of Miss Ts account sets out the circumstances under 
which TSB was entitled to close the account immediately. One of these is if the customer 
acted fraudulently. So I find that TSB did nothing wrong when it closed Miss Ts account 
without notice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman