DRN-1084790
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Capital One sold Mrs H the PPI when she called in to activate her credit card. The PPI was 
designed to help protect her monthly payments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As Mrs H didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
On available evidence, and from experience of how Capital One sold PPI over the phone at 
the time, I believe it would have made it clear to Mrs H that she didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that shed have chosen to take it before it was added. I can understand if she 
doesnt remember this now after all this time.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she 
needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I think it likely she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover  so, it would have been useful for her if something went wrong, especially 
as she wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay or redundancy pay and didnt have any 
other means of meeting her repayments if she wasnt working. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs H has lost out because of how Capital 
One sold her the PPI.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman