DRN-3628132
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that BUPA Insurance Limited decided not to offer them a particular 
dental insurance policy at renewal in 2022.
As Mr S brought the complaint to us, for simplicity, Ive referred mainly to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr S had been a member of his employers group dental insurance policy  BUPA Dental 
Plan. Mr S took out continuation cover, following his retirement. Mr and Mrs S policy 
renewed on 1 April of each year and was due to renew on 1 April 2022.
However, in February 2022, BUPA wrote to Mr S to let him know that it was no longer able to 
offer him BUPA Dental Plan cover from 1 April 2022. It told him that cover under the policy 
would end on 31 March 2022. It said that if Mr S wanted cover to continue without 
interruption after that date, he could consider taking out a consumer policy  BUPA Dental 
Cover 20.
Mr S looked into the BUPA Dental Cover 20 plan and learned that it was significantly more 
expensive than he policy hed held. He made a complaint about BUPAs decision.
BUPA said that the BUPA Dental Plan was usually set up for employers providing cover for 
its employees under a group scheme. It told Mr S that he shouldnt have been put on the 
continuation policy. But it said between 2009 and the 2022 renewal, it had continued offering 
the policy and at a lower price than Mr S ought to have been charged. However, it told Mr S 
that due to regulatory and administrative requirements, it was now unable to keep offering 
the BUPA Dental Plan.
Mr S remained unhappy with BUPAs position and the way it had handled his complaint.  He 
asked us to look into his concerns.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had acted unfairly. She explained that the policy terms 
stated that the insurance contract was an annual one. And that the terms made it clear 
BUPA would write to a policyholder at least 28 days ahead of the annual renewal date to let 
them know if it had decided to end a scheme. In this case, she was satisfied that BUPA had 
written to Mr S more than 28 days ahead of renewal to let him know that it was no longer 
prepared to offer cover. She also explained that complaint handling wasnt something we 
had the power to look into.
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he queried the investigators reasoning as to why his contract 
had been an annual one. And he didnt think there was any evidence that BUPA had decided 
to end his particular scheme. He didnt think the policy terms and conditions gave BUPA the 
right to arbitrarily decide to end a policyholders cover. And he thought therefore, that BUPA 
was in breach of its own terms.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I dont think BUPA has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, were not the industry regulator. We have no power to tell a 
financial business how to operate or to change its processes or procedures. We cant tell an 
insurer what risks it ought to cover or what price it should charge to offer a policy. An insurer 
is entitled to exercise its commercial discretion, so long as it does so reasonably and so long 
as it hasnt singled a consumer out in any way.
It's also important that I make it clear how annual insurance policies work. Generally, dental 
plan policies are not long-term contracts of insurance. Insurers are not bound to offer 
continuing cover on the same terms. Instead, ahead of each renewal, an insurer will decide 
whether or not to continue to offer cover and if so, on what terms. A consumer is then free to 
decide whether to take up the insurers renewal offer. If they choose to do so, a new annual 
contract of insurance is formed for that policy year.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions set out in BUPAs membership guide, as 
these formed the basis of Mr S contract with BUPA during the 2021-22 policy year. Page 
five includes a section called Renewals. Immediately underneath, BUPA has set out the 
following term:
Bupa Dental Plan is an annual contract between you and Bupa. Your cover will renew 
automatically each year as long as you continue to pay your subscriptions and any other 
charges, unless we decide to end the scheme. If this applies, we will write to tell you at least 
28 days before your annual renewal date.
BUPA has defined what it means by scheme on page 26. This says:
The cover we provide as shown on your membership certificate together with this 
membership guide subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement.
In my view, BUPA has made it sufficiently clear that Mr S scheme is the cover specific to 
him set out on his personal membership certificate and within the membership guide. That 
cover is further subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Im satisfied that the terms of Mr S contract make it clear too that annual automatic renewal 
wont continue if BUPA decides to end the cover  in other words, if it decides to no longer 
offer Mr S the same (or potentially any) cover at renewal. The contract says that BUPA will 
write to let policyholders know of such a decision at least 28 days before their annual 
renewal date.
As Ive set out above, BUPA wrote to Mr S on 24 February 2022 to let him know that it 
wasnt able to offer him Dental Plan Cover after his policy year ended on 31 March 2022. 
This letter was clearly sent more than 28 days before Mr S 2021-22 policy was due to end. 
BUPA offered Mr S the option of looking into a specific consumer dental policy, which I think 
was an appropriate thing for it to do. I think this letter was sent in time to give Mr S 
reasonable notice that BUPA wasnt able to offer him the same policy and the opportunity to 
look for alternative cover. 
While I understand that Mr S was unhappy with the price he was offered for the Dental Cover 20 plan, it was open to him to decline this option and to look elsewhere for dental 
insurance if he wished to do so. I appreciate Mr S wanted BUPA to extend the timeline for 
acceptance of its quote. And I can see it let Mr S know in its final response to his complaint 
that if he took up the new policy within three months of his old policy ending (which would 
take him up to 31 June 2022), it would waive any of the usual policy waiting periods for 
treatment.
This means then that I think BUPAs decision not to offer Mr S continued Dental Plan Cover - 
and its subsequent notification of that decision - was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Id add too that whilst it seems Mr S feels BUPA hasnt properly explained its decision not to 
offer him Dental Plan Cover following 31 March 2022, I disagree. I think BUPA clearly set out 
that the Dental Plan Cover was intended for companies rather than individuals. Mr S and 
other members of the policy had continued to be covered by it and had therefore paid less 
than they shouldve done for consumer policies. But BUPA explained that it was now unable 
to continue to offer the policy due to regulatory and administrative requirements. So Im 
satisfied that BUPA provided Mr S with a fair explanation as to why his cover couldnt be 
continued.
Overall, I dont find that BUPA has treated Mr S unfairly and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest its singled him out in any way. So Im not telling BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman