DRN-1515287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined their 
claim for stolen property under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr L parked his car in a supermarket car park. In the boot he left various 
items of property, including a laptop and some clothing. When Mr L returned to his vehicle 
after shopping, he discovered that the vehicle had been broken into and his belongings 
stolen. He says the police told him that the thieves gained access to the boot by some sort of 
key cloning device. Mr and Mrs L submitted a claim to RSA for the stolen items.
RSA declined to cover the claim. It said the policy didnt cover thefts from unattended 
vehicles unless there is evidence that forcible and violent entry took place. It said that the 
opening of the boot could be considered as forcible entry but there was no evidence of 
violence being used. 
Unhappy with this outcome Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
matter and found that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the act of gaining entry 
with improper means or for an improper purpose was forcible and violent in nature, 
irrespective of whether there was physical damage. She was therefore satisfied that a car 
broken into using a specialist device would constitute force and violence. She recommended 
RSA reconsider the claim.
RSA didnt agree with the investigators findings. It referred to several items of case law 
where the courts had reached a decision in relation to what constituted force and violence. It 
went on to explain that, whilst it accepted it was likely that force was used to open the boot, 
the use of specialist devices to clone the key or jam the signal was not a physical, and 
therefore not a violent, act.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to decide is whether RSA is entitled to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim under 
the policy and that its decision to do so is fair and reasonable.
Mr L has said he was told by the police that it was likely a key cloning device was used to 
gain entry to his vehicle. And I can see that RSA has also accepted that either a device to 
clone the key or jam the signal must have been used. So, both parties agree on the method 
by which entry was gained to Mr and Mrs Ls vehicle. 
RSA has referred to case law surrounding the subject of violent entry. The legal cases 
mentioned dont relate specifically to this scenario, but RSA says they determine that such 
entry requires a physical act that is violent in nature or character which overcomes the lock. 
RSA says a physical device hasnt been used to gain entry to the car so it cant be a violent 
act. And as the policy requires violence to be evident, RSA has said it is right to decline the 
claim. Whilst Im mindful of the policy requirements, I do need to consider whether the ever-
changing nature of technology that now allows thefts like this to occur means that it is fair to 
apply the exclusion. And Im not persuaded that it is fair.
Mr L explained he was going into a supermarket and so I can appreciate why he didnt take 
these items with him. And he took what seems to me to be sufficient precautions to prevent 
the theft of the goods by making sure they were placed in the locked boot, out of sight. RSA 
hasnt disputed this in any way. By doing this, Mr L has met all the requirements under the 
policy that are there to try to prevent a theft from occurring. The fact that the theft occurred 
was outside of his control, as was the method used by the thieves to gain entry.
 
Everyone agrees that the lock was opened electronically. And whilst I accept this may not 
amount to a physical act of violence, in the same way as perhaps picking or breaking the 
lock, it does involve the use of an unnatural method to overcome the lock  as something 
other than the key was used.
When taking all of this into account, I dont think it is reasonable for me to allow RSA to 
decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc now needs to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls claim for the 
theft in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman