DRN-2882644
complaint
Ms D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Ms D bought the policy in 2000 sometime after taking out a store card. She applied for the 
store card in-store, and PPI policy over the phone. 
At the time, Ms D was employed as an assistant content producer. She has told us she was 
entitled to some sick pay through her employer, but she didnt have any other means of 
repaying her store card should she be unable to work. Ms D has said she suffered an injury 
and was also diagnosed with a medical condition a significant number of years before the 
sale. We have asked for more details about her health issues, but Ms D has not responded 
to our request.  
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Ms Ds store card balance in the event 
of Ms D being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy also provided Account cover. Ms D hasnt complained about this element of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision. 
At the time, the policy cost £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
According to AXAs records Ms D paid a total of £64.75 for PPI during the policys lifetime.
Ms Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ds representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means AXA should have told 
Ms D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms D and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Ms D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
This sale took place in January 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable.There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
Among other things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI), members undertake to enforce this Code and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance & Leasing Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code was introduced in 1992 and set out standards of good practice for the finance and 
leasing industry. Section 4 of the code covered Credit Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA) should have complied with its code when selling PPI, and this extends 
to when it was acting as an agent of the insurer. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Ms Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If AXA gave advice, whether it advised Ms D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether AXA gave Ms D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms D suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms D and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms D know she had a choice?
AXA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ms D says she mightve purchased this policy during a face to face meeting. But AXAs 
records show that the policy sale method in Ms Ds case was over the phone.
I can see Ms D did apply for her store card in July 1998 by completing a paper application 
(likely in a store meeting like Ms D says). But while she was offered PPI on this occasion, 
she didnt take PPI as the PPI section was left blank. 
AXA says that it sold Ms D the PPI over the phone in January 2000, over a year after she 
took out her store card in July 1998. As the PPI wasnt sold in a meeting with the store card, 
I think AXA is likely to be right and this PPI was sold over the phone. 
AXA no longer has a record of the phone call which isnt surprising given how long ago this 
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to 
decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence thats available and the wider 
circumstances. 
As mentioned above, Ms D declined PPI cover when she took the store card and didnt buy 
the PPI until shed had the store card for over a year. So, I think Ms D wouldve known that 
she could have the card without PPI and therefore it was a separate and optional product. 
AXA says that the PPI wouldnt have been added to Ms Ds store card without her explicit 
consent. And based on everything Ive seen, I think thats likely to be right. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms D knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Ms D hasnt said if she agrees. Looking at 
what happened when AXA sold Ms D the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because I havent seen any evidence that AXA sought details of Ms Ds wider 
circumstances to assess the suitability of the policy or that it gave her any form of tailored 
recommendation to take the PPI. I also have no reason to doubt what AXA says. 
This means AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms D. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms D to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has told us that PPI had been selected during a telephone call. It has also referred us 
to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, including the policy terms and 
conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Ms Ds. 
Looking at the information provided to Ms D at the time, I dont think AXA gave Ms D the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place in a store. I dont know what AXA told Ms D about the PPI but I think its 
unlikely she would have agreed to take it out without at least having a broad understanding 
of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its 
unlikely Ms D would have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility to draw to Ms Ds attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations 
which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely AXA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Ms D, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately 
drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont think AXA gave Ms D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ds. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ds representative considers to be poor 
value. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in 
the way Ms D has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Ms D? To what extent did Ms D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms D suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms D would have 
still taken out the policy, had AXA done things properly. 
Ms D says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms D had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Ms D thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms D has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms D ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding balance I 
think at the very least this would have been discussed in the phone call. But, I accept that 
AXA didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Ms D didnt know some 
things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she 
would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to take out the 
policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Ms D knew about or 
ought to have known about or had consulted a doctor about during the 12 months 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms D 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms D be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might well 
have caused Ms D pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms D from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence about Ms Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have become a reality. Although Ms D says she had two medical problems 
diagnosed some time before the policy was taken out, and the policy might not have 
provided cover had she needed time off work because of these issues, I dont think better 
information about this exclusion would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because 
shed been diagnosed with these issues a number of years before the sale and she hasnt 
said these caused her any significant ongoing issues around the time of sale. So, I dont 
think she would have envisaged that these would be the main reasons shed need to make a 
claim. 
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Ms D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms D 
from taking out the policy, Ms D, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Ms D had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. 
And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Ms Ds 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would have been interested in taking out the 
cover. 
 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms D would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ms Ds representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms D would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ds 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms D 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms D believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay Ms D compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms D thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information AXA gave Ms D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ds representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms D and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms D in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman