DRN-3084458
The complaint
Mr K has complained about EQUIFAX LIMITED displaying a hard search on his credit file 
which he says was incorrect.
What happened
In March 2020, an energy company recorded a hard search on Mr Ks Equifax credit file. He 
was granted an account with that provider. This search then disappeared around November 
2020, and reappeared in February 2021.
In February 2021, Mr K complained to Equifax. He said he wasnt sure if hed consented to 
the search. He said that the energy company had told him they hadnt readded it, and had 
directed him to Equifax. He expressed worry about what effect the search could have had on 
his credit file, and whether it would affect him going forward.
Equifax disputed the search entry several times with the energy company. But each time, the 
energy company did not agree to change or remove the entry, and instead asked for Mr K to 
contact them directly.
In March 2021, the search dropped off Mr Ks file as it was too old.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt think Equifax had got things 
substantially wrong. They explained that the energy company owned the data and Equifax 
couldnt change it without their permission. They found that Equifax had raised disputes for 
Mr K as they were supposed to. They didnt have any evidence that the energy company 
agreed the entry was incorrect, and asked Mr K if he could forward us evidence of what they 
said. They also couldnt see that the search would have had a substantial impact on Mr Ks 
credit file.
Mr K didnt agree. He suggested that he owned the data, rather than Equifax or the energy 
company. He was particularly unhappy that Equifax and the energy company kept referring 
him back and forth between each other.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a few things I should clarify. The first is that, while Ive read and understood Mr Ks 
arguments about who owns the data, Im afraid it doesnt work the way hes suggested. The 
energy company own the data they report on his credit file, and they are broadly the ones 
responsible for it. Neither Mr K nor Equifax own it. Equifax collate and display the data that 
lenders and utility companies (and so on) report to them. But its those companies who 
actually own the data they report to Equifax.
So Equifax were not able to change or remove the hard search entry without the energy 
companys permission. What they could do was raise a dispute for Mr K when he told them 
things were wrong. And thats what they did  repeatedly, and within reasonable time. But 
each time, the energy company did not consent to adjusting or removing the search entry, 
and instead said that Mr K needed to contact them directly. So there wasnt really much 
more Equifax could do in this situation.
I will also clarify that, as far as I can see, it was indeed the energy company who provided 
the search data. Ive looked at a copy of the raw data given to Equifax, and it looks like 
Equifax reported what they were given here. Ive not seen anything which substantiates that 
Equifax deleted, adjusted, or readded the entry without the energy companys say so.
The next thing I should clarify is that I dont actually have any evidence which shows that the 
search entry was incorrect. Its really quite normal for utility companies to carry out a search 
when deciding whether to take on a customer, and this can sometimes be a hard search. 
And I can see here that Mr K did indeed open an account with that same energy provider 
following that search. Further, despite disputing the entry repeatedly, the energy company 
never told Equifax it was incorrect in any way and did not agree to change or remove it. And 
Mr K has not sent us any correspondence from the energy company where they agreed it 
was a mistake, even after our investigator asked for it.
So Ive not got any good reason to conclude that the entry was incorrect. With that said, 
even if I accept it was incorrect, the fact remains that that was not Equifaxs fault in this case, 
as they were accurately reporting the information they were given. And Equifax broadly did 
what they were supposed to by disputing it repeatedly on Mr Ks behalf.
I really do appreciate that it would have been frustrating if Mr K was getting sent from pillar to 
post  from what hes told us, it sounds like the energy company was telling him one thing 
and Equifax another. Our investigator suggested he could contact the Energy Ombudsman. 
But I cant see that Equifax advised him incorrectly or delayed things, so I dont think they 
were responsible for the frustration Mr K suffered here.
Further, even if I accept that the entry was incorrect, and even if I thought Equifax should 
have done more once they were told about it: Mr K first raised this with Equifax in February 
2021, and the search fell off his file just a few weeks later. Thats not a very significant 
period. Moreover, searches are a normal part of ones credit file, and theres no guarantee 
theyll cause any problems getting credit. Hard searches can potentially be looked at 
negatively  for example, if a person applied for credit but was turned down. But here, Mr K 
was granted the account with the energy company. And Ive also not seen anything to show 
that Mr K was turned down for credit due to this search in the short time between him 
reporting it to Equifax and it falling off his file. So again, I cant see that Equifax would be 
responsible for any significant negative impact there.
The entry has now fallen off of Mr Ks credit file as its over a year old, so I hope I can 
reassure him that it wont affect him going forward.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman