DRN-2852449
The complaint
Miss W complains about the poor service she received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) following her claim under her home emergency policy. 
 
What happened
Miss W found that her toilet was leaking and contacted IPA. It sent an engineer who IPA said 
replaced bolts and washers and left the toilet in good working order. 
A few days later Miss W noticed that the toilet was still leaking, and water was now under the 
flooring.  Miss W contacted IPA who sent another engineer. Miss W said that that engineer 
told her that the first engineer hadnt changed the bolts or washers and she took photos of 
this. The second engineer then changed the bolts and washers, which stopped the leak. 
Miss W complained to IPA as she felt that the first engineer didnt properly fix the leak. In its 
final response, IPA said that it couldnt say how the second leak happened. But it 
acknowledged, that further investigations shouldve taken place by the first engineer and for 
this it offered £813 as an apology. 
Miss W wasnt happy with this outcome as the amount offered covered only half of the 
amount that it would cost her to replace her flooring which is £1,526. She also felt that had 
the first engineer carried out the repair properly, her flooring wouldnt have become 
damaged as it did. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and upheld it. She said that she wasnt 
persuaded that the toilet was not leaking when the first engineer left the property or that both 
leaks were not linked. So, she recommended that IPA cover the full cost of the replacement 
flooring. 
Miss W accepted the outcome. IPA didnt accept the outcome. It acknowledged that it might 
be responsible for the second leak, but the first leak, wouldve caused some damage, which 
is why the 50% contribution it offered was fair. It asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will be upholding Miss Ws complaint and I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issue here is whether IPA was fair in its offer to cover half the costs of the 
replacement flooring. 
IPA has accepted that it might be responsible for the second leak, but as it was likely that 
damage was caused to the property after the first leak, then it should only contribute 50% 
towards the replacement flooring. 
I have reviewed the first engineers notes. It said: 09.08.20  Engineers notes: -
Arrived on site, sourced problem to water dripping from bolt and nuts connecting cistern to 
the pan. Replaced bolts and washers. Reconnected pan to cistern and pipework. Tested and 
complete. 
Miss W said that the first engineer who attended her home didnt disconnect the water, was 
there for about three minutes and then left. Miss W said that when the second engineer 
attended, he told her that the first engineer hadnt replaced the bolts or washers, he replaced 
those parts and the leak was fixed. Miss W has provided photos of the bolts and washers 
that were removed by the second engineer. On reviewing the photos, the parts dont appear 
to be new, which I wouldve expected to see had the first engineer changed them a few days 
earlier.
IPA were asked to provide the second engineers notes, to see what he diagnosed as the 
cause of the second leak. Those notes werent provided. So, there is no evidence to 
disprove what Miss W said, that is that the second engineer told her that the first engineer 
failed to replace the washer and bolts. 
Moreover, I havent seen any evidence to show that the first engineer carried out a thorough 
enough investigation that ensured that the toilet wasnt leaking before he left. 
IPA said that it is likely that there would be damage caused due to the first leak. In certain 
circumstances, I accept that this could be the case. But Miss W is clear that following the 
initial leak, there was no damage to her flooring. In addition, the notes from the first engineer 
do not indicate that there was any damage to the flooring.
However, by the second leak, which occurred over a longer period, Miss W said that 
damage was caused to her flooring.  As IPA has accepted that it is responsible for the 
second leak, I think it is fair and reasonable for IPA to cover the full cost of the replacement 
flooring. 
 
Putting things right
  To put matters right, IPA should cover the full cost of the replacement flooring of £1,526. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA should cover the cost of the replacement flooring of £1,526. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman