DRN-4291050
The complaint
Miss As complaint is about the maturity of a mortgage endowment policy she had with Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited. She is unhappy about the amount of time it took for the policy 
proceeds to be paid to her, so that she could pay her mortgage off. 
What happened
In December 2022 Aviva wrote to Miss A to remind her that her endowment policy would be 
maturing at the end of January 2023. It explained that Miss A needed to return a maturity 
form (which was enclosed) and asked her questions to determine if she needed to send 
identification (ID) documents. The basic questions indicated that Miss A didnt need to send 
ID if she wanted the maturity proceeds paid into the bank account that had paid the 
premiums. However, it was noted that for some European countries ID would be required 
and Aviva would be in touch if that was the case. A reminder letter was sent to Miss A in the 
middle of January 2023.
Miss A contacted Aviva in March 2023 to question why she hadnt received the maturity 
proceeds. It explained to her that it had sent her information about what it needed to pay out 
the maturity value, but it had not received a response. Miss A told Aviva that she hadnt 
received either of its letters about the maturity. After Aviva provided her with a copy of the 
maturity pack, she returned the maturity form by courier on 28 March 2023. In addition, she 
sent a copy of the maturity form and photocopies of ID documents by email the following 
day. She informed Aviva her mortgage was due to be repaid on 10 April 2023 and asked that 
payment be made before that date. Although Aviva hadnt told her that it needed ID because 
of the country she lived in at this point, it appears Miss A knew it did as shed had to provide 
it in relation to another policy.
On 4 April 2023 Miss A emailed additional ID documents to Aviva. The following day Aviva 
wrote to Miss A and asked her to provide her ID again. It explained that it was not able to 
accept photocopies unless they had been certified and explained how certification should be 
done.
On 10 April 2023 certified copies of Miss As passport, driving licence and bank statement 
were sent to Aviva by courier and email. Miss A also complained that previous 
documentation she had emailed had not been accepted and was unhappy that she had been 
required to provide this information at all, given the funds were being paid into the premium 
paying account. 
Aviva responded to the complaint in a letter of 11 April 2023. It explained in order to protect 
policyholders it had procedures in place to ensure that funds were only paid out when they 
should be. This meant that it required appropriate ID documentation before it could make a 
payment. As Aviva hadnt received what it needed, it didnt consider that it had acted 
unreasonably.
On 13 April 2023 Aviva discussed with Miss A the ID documents she had provided it with. It 
raised concerns that the secondary form of ID didnt contain the information it needed it to  
her full name and address. It was also confirmed that it was checking the validity of the 
certifier. Subsequently, on 20 April 2023 Aviva wrote to Miss A and told her that it could not 
accept any of her ID documents unless it could validate the certifier and asked for further ID 
documents to be provided; implying that it had been unable to validate the certifier Miss A 
had used. In response, Miss A provided Aviva with an electronic document headed by a 
professional body detailing the certifiers membership. Miss A complained again and asked 
us to look into her complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and recommended it be partially upheld. 
She was satisfied that Aviva was right to ensure the person claiming the funds from the 
policy was entitled to them. However, Aviva had not provided an explanation of why it would 
not accept the certified documentation pay out the maturity value, when it had accepted it as 
valid in relation to a different policy. As such, the Investigator concluded the maturity 
proceeds should be paid out to Miss A along with simple interest at 8% p.a. from the date 
the certified ID documentation was received. In addition, she considered Aviva should pay 
Miss A £250 for the trouble and upset the delays had caused her.
Aviva didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. It explained that the only policy it could 
locate as having been paid out to Miss A had been a couple of years ago, not recently. In 
addition, Aviva confirmed that the address Miss A had the policy registered under was in a 
country that it needed additional ID verification for. It also raised concerns that Miss A did not 
appear to be residing at the registered address and was corresponding from a different 
country. Aviva highlighted that it needed to ensure it was paying the maturity proceeds out 
correctly.
Our Investigator provided Aviva with details of the second policy the ID documents sent on 
10 April 2023 had been used for. On 16 August 2023 Aviva wrote to Miss A and informed 
her that it had paid the maturity proceeds into her bank account, along with interest 
calculated at Bank of England Base Rate plus 1% from the maturity date to the date of 
payment.
Aviva acknowledged the different ID requirements between different parts of its business 
must have been frustrating for Miss A and confirmed it was happy to pay the £250 
compensation recommended by the Investigator in this regard. In addition, it said it would 
also consider paying interest on the maturity value at the 8% simple the Investigator had 
recommended, less the interest already paid.
Miss A didnt consider the £250 compensation was sufficient, given the trouble, health issues 
and upset she had been caused. She also highlighted that she had incurred additional 
expenses in the form of couriers, petrol and international calls to Aviva and her mortgage 
lender.
Aviva subsequently confirmed that it would increase the interest payment to reflect it being 
calculated at 8% simple, which involved an additional payment of £547. It also offered to 
increase the compensation payment to £500. Miss A didnt accept the revised offer as she 
didnt consider it covered her costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has acknowledged that it made mistakes in this case, and so I only need to determine 
what needs to happen to put the situation right.
Miss A was aware from interactions with it on another policy that Aviva would likely want ID documentation due to the country her permanent residence was in, and as such she 
pre-empted the request that would have been made when the maturity form was received at 
Avivas offices. However, the initial ID documentation provided was not certified, and it was 
only provided as emailed scanned documents, which were not acceptable. As has been 
confirmed a life assurance company has an obligation to its policyholders to ensure it is 
paying proceeds to the correct parties. It is standard procedure in financial services that ID 
documentation needs to be either an original or a certified copy. As such, I cant find that it 
was inappropriate for Aviva not to accept the initial emailed ID documentation. 
Aviva has acknowledged that it should have accepted the ID documentation that Miss A sent 
to it on 10 April 2023 and it has now paid out the maturity value based on that 
documentation. As such, it is reasonable that had this mistake not occurred, the maturity 
proceeds would have been paid out around 11 April 2023.
When determining what redress should be paid, we establish what position a consumer 
would have been in, but for the mistake made by the financial business. In this case, I am 
satisfied that Miss A would have paid the maturity funds off her mortgage and would, 
therefore, have stopped paying interest on that amount. As such, she was deprived of the 
use of the amount of the payments she made after the mortgage would have been paid off. 
In addition, she would not have had to make any further daytime international telephone 
calls, and so would have saved that money too. 
Aviva has agreed to pay Miss A interest calculated at 8% simple on the maturity value, which 
will amount to around £1,500. We have asked Miss A to provide evidence of the amount of 
interest she was charged on her mortgage, but she has not provided this. Nor has she 
evidenced the cost of the calls she made. However, from what she has told us, it would 
appear the amount of interest Aviva has now agreed to pay is sufficient to cover her financial 
losses. 
I note that Miss A spoke to Aviva on numerous occasions before providing the certified ID 
documentation needed for the maturity. However, I dont consider that it would be 
reasonable to ask Aviva to refund these costs as when they were made, Miss A knew what 
she needed to provide Aviva, but had not done so. As such, it was not an error on Avivas 
part that caused these costs to arise.
Miss A raised additional costs she had to pay out during the process of obtaining the 
maturity value  petrol and courier costs. The costs involved in providing a life assurance 
company with the documentation needed to allow a maturity is something that a policyholder 
will always have to incur, be that the cost associated with having documents certified or 
those associated with arranging their delivery. As such, these are costs that Miss A would 
always have had to pay and it would not be appropriate for Aviva to be required to reimburse 
them.
Aviva has offered Miss A £500 compensation for the upset and inconvenience she suffered 
because of the errors it made. Considering the timescales involved and the nature of the 
situation, especially given Miss A was due to pay the funds to her mortgage lender in 
April 2023, I consider £500 is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Miss A £547 additional interest and compensation 
of £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman