DRN-3842746
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutual dealt with and settled her claim on her property insurance policy 
following a fire. 
What happened
Mrs C had a property insurance policy with NFU for a building she owns. In January 2018 
there was a fire at the property which caused extensive damage.
She made a claim on her insurance which NFU accepted. However the claim progressed 
slowly, due to delays caused by both Mrs C and NFU and it wasnt until November 2020 that 
a final settlement was agreed. 
However, there was a dispute about whether some scaffolding should be included in the 
settlement as part of the sum insured. NFU said it would only pay up to the policy limit of 
around £104,000, including the scaffolding costs. Mrs C made a complaint which she 
brought to this service. 
In February 2022 I issued a final decision upholding the complaint and directed NFU to pay 
for the scaffolding costs outside of the policy limit and recalculate the claim settlement up to 
the limit without this included. 
Following this, Mrs C remained unhappy with how the claim continued to progress. She said 
NFU hadnt carried out the instructions from the final decision promptly and had delayed 
further progress on the claim. She also thought the claim settlement it was offering wasnt 
enough to make up for increased building costs. And she thought it should cover lost 
earnings, as she said if the claim had been progressed at a reasonable pace then she would 
have been able to rent out the property. She also thought it should cover the cost of 
reconnecting the electricity at the property as she wouldnt have had to do this if it hadnt 
been for the slow claim progress. 
She made a complaint but NFU didnt uphold it, so she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Mrs C hadnt provided 
enough evidence to show that the claim related work had increased in cost. And she said as 
there was no tenancy agreement in place prior to the fire, then it wouldnt be fair to ask NFU 
to pay loss of rent. She also didnt think NFU had caused unnecessary delays since the last 
final decision was issued. 
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She said shed provided evidence that 
building costs had increased and shes shown how much similar properties had been rented 
out for, so thought this was enough evidence to prove her additional claim costs.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive previously issued a final decision in response to a complaint about this claim. As that 
represents our final position on that complaint, and is legally binding, I am unable to 
comment on anything that was considered as part of that complaint. Nor am I able to 
comment on whether NFU has fulfilled the directions contained in the decision or if it has 
done so in a reasonable time frame. Therefore in this review Ive focussed only on new 
matters that have been raised since the decision was issued. Any reference to issues 
covered in the final decision are for context only. 
Repair costs
Mrs C has said that she doesnt think the proposed settlement amount provided by NFU is 
enough to cover the true cost of the work required. Shes provided examples of cost 
increases from a building supplier and a letter from a builder stating that the work will cost 
around £130,000 to complete. 
NFU has confirmed that the total cost of the insured work, including scaffolding is 
£123,484.77 (including VAT if applicable). Its based its settlement on an itemised scope of 
work put together by its loss adjuster. And its said it will pay up to this amount on receipt of 
invoices as the work is completed. This is a usual, and reasonable, way to settle a claim. 
If Mrs C doesnt think the amount NFU has proposed for the claim related costs is sufficient, 
its for her to evidence that the work has or will cost more than this amount. And from what 
Ive seen, she hasnt done enough to show this. The evidence she has provided is general 
information about how much building materials have increased in cost and a one page letter 
that just contains a figure of how much her builder thinks the work will cost, without any 
breakdown or indication of what this covers. 
NFU has said that if she provides invoices detailing the work carried out that demonstrates 
the cost is higher than its original settlement then it would consider these. And I think this is 
fair. However based on the information provided so far, I think NFU has acted fairly by not 
increasing the settlement offer. 
Loss of rent
Mrs C has also said that had it not been for the ongoing claim and the delays, she would 
have been able to rent out the property. She therefore thinks NFU should reimburse her for 
the rental income she has missed out on during this time. 
Mrs Cs policy does include cover for business interruption, which covers loss of rental 
income. The policy states:
WE will pay for the loss of INCOME occurring during the INDEMNITY PERIOD arising from 
DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising from an INSURED PERIL 
during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
And income is defined as:
The rental income received by YOU in the course of YOUR BUSINESS from the letting of 
the PREMISESWhile Mrs C has provided evidence of how much she might expect to receive in rent if she 
did rent the property out, and that she is an experienced landlord, shes not shown that she 
had been receiving rental income from the property while it was insured, before the fire took 
place. And the policy only provides cover where rental income would have been received 
had it not been for the claim. As Mrs C has provided nothing to show that she had a tenant 
secured or even that she marketed the property, I think NFU has acted fairly by declining to 
pay for loss of rent. 
Cost of reconnecting the electricity
Mrs C has said that due to the delays caused by NFU, she had to have her electricity 
disconnected and she paid a large amount to have it reconnected. She thinks NFU should 
cover this amount. 
While a claim is ongoing, it is usual that the policyholder is still required to pay general 
maintenance costs for the property. Such as council tax, and utility bills. As these would 
always need to be paid, regardless of a claim.  
While Mrs C has provided an invoice for the cost of the electricity being connected at the 
property, shes provided nothing to show that this was only required either because of the 
fire or due to the actions of NFU. In the absence of this evidence, I dont agree its fair to ask 
NFU to cover this cost. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman