DRN-3938492
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took too long to properly deal with 
her request to close her account. She says that her repeated requests caused her a great 
deal of stress.
What happened
Miss A wished to close her savings account with Barclays. On 4 April 2022, she contacted 
the bank through its online chat service. The initial chat lasted for 23 minutes, but for the first 
14 minutes, she was chatting with a bot. A live advisor arrived in the chat, and Miss A told 
them she wanted to close her account. The advisor asked for some additional information, 
but Miss A says that she had to leave the chat as she needed to return to work.
On 6 April 2022, Miss A began a new chat and provided some of the information Barclays 
had asked for, but not her telephone number. On 7 April 2022, Miss A again began a chat, 
and was told that her account closure would be logged. The account was still open on 12 
April 2022, and Miss A logged another request via the chat. This was processed, and her 
account was closed, on 12 April 2022.
Barclays agreed that it had taken too long to process Miss As clear request. It paid her £100 
to reflect the fact that it had taken repeated requests to get the account closed.
Our investigator thought that, while the bank had got things wrong, the £100 already paid 
was enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss A did not agree and said that the amount of compensation here didnt reflect the impact 
this had on her so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the additional information which was requested on the initial chat. The 
bank says that it could not process the request without this information, which was standard 
personal information usually requested to confirm identity. I think that seeking such 
information before actioning an account closure request is reasonable as it is important to 
verify the customers identity before closing an account.
Miss A provided most, but not all of the information. And I do not think that Barclays was as 
clear with her as it should have been about what information was missing. If it had asked 
again just for her telephone number, I am sure she would have provided it. The closure 
could then have been done in line with her request and the last two chats would not have 
been necessary.
The closure was, therefore, delayed by the banks mistake in not being clear in the 
information that it needed. I am sure that Miss A found this very frustrating, as it was a 
simple and clear request. But the delay caused by the banks mistake was six days, and I 
have been provided with no evidence to suggest it had any financial impact upon Miss A. 
While I have considered carefully Miss As account of the distress the delay caused, and her 
description of her particular circumstances- including what she told our investigator in 
response to their view- I think that £100 fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by a delay of less than a week in closing an unused account. I am not 
going to ask the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman