DRN-2589080
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have taken £250 out of his 
account without his consent. He wants Nationwide to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr F holds a current account with Nationwide. In October 2020, he noticed from his July 
bank statement that £250 had been credited to his account in June and then debited two 
days later. Mr F contacted Nationwide to complain. Nationwide responded and said the £250 
had been paid into Mr Fs account in error. They said the error was recognised by the branch 
that paid the money in. They then debited £250 from Mr Fs account and a note was added 
to his account to confirm the action taken. Nationwide referred to the terms and conditions of 
the account and explained, where an error occurs in such cases, they can debit the account 
with the money paid in error and dont need to let a customer know first.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr F will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I can see from Mr Fs July 2020 statement that £250 was paid into his account in June and 
then debited two days later. The description of the payment in says its a cash credit and for 
the debit it says its a correction of cash credit. Theres no dispute between the parties that 
£250 was paid into Mr Fs account in error and then the same amount debited. Theres also 
no dispute that the £250 paid in wasnt Mr Fs money. So, what Im looking at here is 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to debit the £250 from Mr Fs account 
without getting his consent. 
Ive looked at Mr Fs accounts terms and conditions and this says, under the heading Do I 
keep any money thats paid into my account by mistake?: 
If another bank tells us that money has been paid into your account by mistake, we 
can take an amount up to the amount of the mistaken payment from your account. 
We generally do not have to tell you first but if we do try to check with you, we can 
stop you from withdrawing those funds while we try to contact you. We will deduct the 
funds when we are reasonably satisfied that there was a mistake.
Taking this into account, I dont think Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
The money was paid into Mr Fs account in error and theyve then identified this and acted in 
a timely manner to correct this error. The terms and conditions allow Nationwide to take such 
steps. 
I note Mr F feels Nationwide shouldnt have debited his account without his permission but 
the terms and conditions say Nationwide dont need to tell him first. When banking errors like 
this occur, its important for a firm to deal with the matter swiftly and with little to no 
inconvenience to consumers. Its only right and fair for the money to reach the correct 
account swiftly so I can understand why a firm might have terms and conditions to allow 
them to take any corrective steps without having to wait for permission from an account 
holder. So, while there has been an error here by Nationwide by incorrectly crediting Mr Fs 
account, I cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably with the steps theyve taken to 
correct the error.   
I do understand why Mr F is concerned when he discovers whats happened, but its 
important to take into consideration here that Mr F only finds out about the problem four 
months after his account is debited. During this time, theres no impact on him or even at the 
time his account is debited. Nationwide say, where this situation occurs, they will evaluate 
the time period between them crediting the money and debiting them and will also check to 
ensure this will not leave the consumer without funds. Nationwide say, due to the low impact 
that removing the money wouldve had on Mr Fs account, no contact was made with him. I 
can see Mr F wants compensation for Nationwide debiting the money from his account but I 
havent seen any evidence of an impact on Mr F. And, given that I dont uphold the 
complaint, I wont be asking Nationwide to pay any compensation.   
Mr F has referred to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and guidelines which he says 
have been breached by Nationwide. He says Nationwide have breached the rules by 
debiting money from his account without his consent. While I do understand Mr Fs points in 
this respect, I can see our investigator has signposted Mr F to the FCA, as the regulator, if 
he feels there are any issues of conduct. My role is to look at the service provided by 
Nationwide and, for the reasons I have given, I think theyve acted reasonably.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman