DRN-2945403
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint is about Allianz Global Corporate & Speciality SEs handling of, 
and subsequent offer to settle, a subsidence claim made under a housing warranty 
insurance policy.
All references to Allianz include its appointed agents.
What happened
I will set out the key events below which are relevant to my decision. However, I want to 
reassure both parties that I have read, and carefully considered, everything thats been 
provided.
Around January 2011, Mr S1 and Mr S2 bought a property which was covered by a ten-year 
housing warranty insurance policy. The warranty had been arranged by the developer of the 
property and assigned to Mr S1 and Mr S2 when they bought it. The start and end dates of 
the warranty fell between 2010 and 2020. 
In essence, the warranty covered Mr S1 and Mr S2 for defects in the property that led to 
physical damage, subject to the policy terms. And the policy defined a defect as:
Any defect in the structural works notified to the insurers during the Period of Insurance 
which is attributable to a defect in design or workmanship or materials which was not 
manifest at the Date of Inception.
In September 2014, Mr S1 and Mr S2 contacted Allianz to report some cracking to the 
property and told it of their intention to make a claim. In December 2014, they provided 
Allianz with a latent defect claim form and a report from a surveyor (T). 
Ts report was based on a visual inspection, and stated the issues were as a result of 
serious structural movement. It further stated that Further investigation of this must be 
made and structural calculations considered as to whether whatever structural support is 
provided at this point is indeed adequate.
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property and carried out a further visual 
inspection. The loss adjuster then obtained information as to the specification of the 
propertys foundations. They concluded that the foundations had been built in line with the 
relevant building regulations and werent defective. So they recommended Allianz turn down 
the claim, which it did in February 2015. Allianz relied on a policy exclusion which stated:
this Policy does not cover any destruction, physical damage or threat of imminent 
destruction or physical damage caused by, arising from, or consequent upon:

(ix) subsidence, heave or landslip unless due to a Defect.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 didnt agree with Allianzs decision. In July 2016, they complained to 
Allianz and said that the additional surveys and site investigations theyd arranged 
suggested that the foundations were defective, so the policy should cover the claim. 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 provided further expert reports to support their claim  including one from 
R dated May 2016. Rs report concluded that the damage was being caused by nearby 
tree-related ground movement. But it also stated that the foundation design had not properly 
accounted for the nearby trees, and had it done so, the resulting foundations would have 
been piled. So it concluded the damage was due to defective foundation design. 
In August 2016, Allianz responded to Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint. It said that whilst there 
was evidence of subsidence causing damage to the property, the policy only covered 
subsidence if linked to a latent defect. In other words, in order for the claim to be accepted, it 
needed to be shown that the foundations were defective either by design or construction. 
And that the subsidence wasnt solely due to an intervening cause, such as the presence of 
tree roots in the soil.
Allianz said that Ms report stated the recommended foundation depth had been complied 
with, and having reviewed everything, it wasnt satisfied that it had been shown a defect was 
present in line with the policy wording. So it maintained its decision to turn down the claim. 
But Allianz did say that it would look to appoint an independent expert to review the claim 
should Mr S1 and Mr S2 wish. This was subsequently agreed by all parties.
In January 2017, Allianz instructed G as an independent expert. Gs report concluded that 
the cause of damage was (my emphasis in bold) tree related movement combined with 
inadequate foundation design. And in September 2017, Gs final report concluded the 
design process of the foundation was defective, as tree roots were evident at greater soil 
depths than had been accounted for. 
In October 2017, Allianz told Mr S1 and Mr S2 that it was now considering covering the claim 
for subsidence due to the defective foundations. Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to assess 
the claim, and they further engaged a chartered quantity surveyor (C) to assess the cost of 
repairing the defect.
Cs report considered three remedies of repair; to mitigate the vegetation followed by level 
monitoring, with repairs to proceed once the site had stabilised (which could take up to 8-10 
years); mitigate the vegetation and underpin the foundations; or the demolish and rebuild of 
the property using suitable foundations. C concluded that underpinning the foundations 
would be the most reasonable option in the circumstances.
In April 2018, C calculated the cost of underpinning the property to be around £625,000, 
including the alternative accommodation (AA) costs for Mr S1 and Mr S2. But around 
May 2018, Allianz found that the property had been significantly underinsured by the 
developer upon inception of the policy. So in light of this, C was required to undertake further 
investigations and reconsider the repair costs. 
During this period Mr S1 and Mr S2 raised two complaints to Allianz about the time taken to 
deal with the claim. Allianz responded and said it was finalising its position on the claim. In February 2019, Allianz provided its final response to Mr S1 and Mr S2. Allianz explained 
that it had applied a remedy of Average to the claim and made an offer of around £435,000 
to settle the claim. Allianz said that it had chosen this option because the issue of 
underinsurance stemmed from the developers misrepresentation, and not that of 
Mr S1 and Mr S2. So in the interest of fairness, instead of avoiding the policy, it was settling 
the claim using the provision of Average, which took into account the proportion of 
underinsurance.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 were unhappy with Allianzs offer of settlement and in March 2019 they 
raised further complaint points. In summary they said:
This was the first theyd been made aware there was a valid claim.
That because the claim was initially turned down theyd had to spend time, money, 
and engage professional help to show the foundations were defective. So they 
wanted Allianz to refund these costs.
They felt the claim couldve been settled sooner and were unhappy with how long it 
had taken Allianz to reach an offer of settlement.
They werent happy with Allianzs overall handling of the claim or its lack of 
communication.
That the delays have led to a worsening of the damage and therefore increased the 
repair costs.
They didnt understand why the settlement had been Averaged. And they asked why 
the underwriter of the policy hadnt visited the site to see the value of what it was 
providing cover for.
That they wanted copies of all the reports which had influenced the cost and scope of 
the repairs.
In May 2019, Allianz responded to Mr S1 and Mr S2s concerns. In summary it said:
That it had notified Mr S1 and Mr S2 there was a valid claim in October 2017.
That the policy didnt provide cover for legal, professional, or consulting fees incurred 
for the purpose of preparing a claim. But it did offer a goodwill gesture to reimburse 
any surveyors fees incurred by Mr S1 and Mr S2 prior to them appointing solicitors, 
using the Average provision.
The claim had been complex and required a number of investigations and expert 
reports to get to this stage, so it didnt agree that the delays were unnecessary.
That the settlement included a built-in buffer of around £121,000 for preliminary fees 
and contingency costs which may not become payable as part of the cost of the 
works. It said it hadnt removed these costs which in turn led to an increased 
Average offer.
It had added a further payment for storage costs which wasnt included in its original 
offer. This meant the settlement offer was now adjusted to around £440,000.
It said it wasnt required to undertake analysis of the sum insured, as this had been 
provided by the developer in good faith. And the actions of the developer meant the 
premium paid was based on a wrong and lower value. So it wasnt fair for it to settle 
the claim in full, when only part of the premium that should have been paid was due.
That it had enclosed copies of the reports it had relied on to evidence the cost and 
scope of repairs.Mr S1 and Mr S2 didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. In addition to the 
points set out above they added:
That Allianzs proposed remedy of underpinning will devalue the property and make it 
difficult to sell on.
That the premiums paid provide a policy cover of £500,000, so any settlement should 
be limited to this amount.
They were concerned that the actual works will cost more than Allianzs estimate, 
and so they want this revisited should the actual costs exceed the estimate.
That the side effects of the damage have led to insect infestations, a reduction in 
social gatherings due to the embarrassment caused by the damage. And that the 
overall experience has caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that Allianzs decision to apply the Average condition to the settlement was fair 
and reasonable. And they concluded that Allianzs decision to provide a settlement to 
underpin the property was reasonable and in line with the expert reports provided. 
Our investigator said that due to the complexity of the claim and investigation required, they 
werent satisfied that there were any instances of avoidable delays. Nor did they conclude 
that Allianz was responsible for the prolonged overall duration of the claim. And they 
concluded that Allianzs offer to reimburse a portion of Mr S1 and Mr S2s surveyor costs 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstance.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr S1 and Mr S2 feel that their side of the complaint hasnt been properly heard. 
And Im also aware that they asked for an extension to provide further information for me to 
consider. But since the extension has now passed and no further information has been 
provided, Ive reviewed everything, and Im satisfied that their arguments are clear. Id like to 
once again reassure Mr S1 and Mr S2 that Ive carefully considered their comments and the 
evidence theyve provided.
It is clear that this has been a complex claim for all parties involved. Unfortunately, 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 are in a position where it appears that the actions of the developer have 
contributed to their current circumstances. And I can understand the frustration that this must 
have caused them.
I dont have jurisdiction to consider the actions of the developer here. This is because those 
actions happened between it and Allianz, and Mr S1 and Mr S2 werent involved. But I will 
consider Mr S1 and Mr S2s unhappiness with the proposed method of repair, amount of the 
settlement, and their concerns about the impact of any delays in the claim. Ill also consider if 
Allianzs actions were fair and reasonable once the matter of underinsurance became 
apparent. Finally, Ill consider if any compensation is due to Mr S1 and Mr S2 for the 
distress, inconvenience, and costs they say the matter has caused.Proposed method of repair
Ive considered all of the expert reports provided to decide whether Allianzs proposed 
method of repair is fair and reasonable. Mr S1 and Mr S2 say that theyre unhappy with the 
proposed repair of underpinning, as they feel this will devalue the property and make it 
difficult to sell on.
But Allianzs responsibility under the policy isnt linked to the potential future value of the 
property. Its required to indemnify Mr S1 and Mr S2 against the cost of repairing, 
replacing and/or strengthening the Premises following and consequent upon a Defect which 
becomes manifest And in line with our services general approach this means that Allianz 
is required to provide a remedy which leads to an effective and lasting repair of the damage.
Allianzs position is that Cs report shows the property can be repaired, so it isnt necessary 
to consider more expensive options such as demolishing and rebuilding the property. It did 
consider cheaper options of repair such as an extended period of monitoring, but considered 
underpinning as the most reasonable option which would minimise the disruption to 
Mr S1 and Mr S2.
Allianz has also said that a more expensive repair would potentially lead to an even larger 
claims shortfall for Mr S1 and Mr S2, given the proportion of underinsurance and would have 
likely exceeded the sum insured in any event. So it considers a demolish and rebuild of the 
property disproportionate to the damage caused. And Allianz has pointed out that 
underpinning was recommended as a remedy by Mr S1 and Mr S2s own experts, T and R.
Im persuaded by the reports given that C, T, and R have all recommended underpinning of 
the foundations as an effective and lasting repair. Im therefore satisfied Allianz has chosen 
a suitable remedy for which to calculate the claim settlement  taking the other options into 
account. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me that a different form of repair, such as a 
demolish and rebuild, would be any more effective in the circumstances. So Ill next consider 
the terms of the settlement and Allianzs application of the Average provision. 
Allianzs settlement
Ive already set out what Mr S1 and Mr S2s policy covers so I wont repeat that here. So the 
next question I need to consider is whether Allianz has applied the provision of Average 
fairly and reasonably. And to do so I need to consider if it was responsible for the under-
insurance of the policy.
When considering the provision of policy cover, Allianzs underwriters (B) consider the risk 
they are insuring in line with the policy they are providing. As part of this they need to know 
the value of the property, but this is the responsibility of the developer to provide. The 
underwriters carry out site surveys, but this is to ensure the property meets the design and 
specification the policy covers and not to value the property.
Ive not seen anything to indicate B had any responsibility for matters concerning valuation, 
instead the evidence persuades me that the site visits it did carry out were for the purpose of 
arranging contracts of insurance. So I am satisfied that there wasnt anything which would 
have fairly put Allianz on notice that the developer had misrepresented the property value 
and underinsured it. Ive next considered the definition of Average in the policy terms to see if it was applied 
fairly. The policy defines Average as:
The Sum Insured stated in the Schedule of the Policy is hereby declared to be subject to 
Average.
If at the date of manifestation of a Defect the sum representing 85% of full rebuilding costs of 
the Premises exceeds the Sum Insured adjusted in accordance with General Provision (c) 
below, the Insured will only be entitled to recover such proportion of indemnifiable costs as 
the adjusted Sum Insured herein bears to the full rebuilding costs.
And General Provision (c) goes on to state:
The Insured may, from time to time request an increase in the Sum Insured stated in the 
Schedule by written application to the Insurers. If the increase is accepted, cover will 
comment upon payment to Insurers of such additional premium as they may require.
I think these two terms together are important in the circumstances of this case. And I think 
they are clear. What they show is that the policy has a remedy available to the insurer if 85% 
of the total rebuild costs of the property exceed the stated sum insured. And it also shows 
there is a remedy available to the insured should they deem the sum insured isnt adequate.
Ive already determined that Allianz wasnt responsible for verifying the value provided by the 
developer for the sum insured. And the policy terms show that Mr S1 and Mr S2 couldve 
applied to increase the sum insured. And there was a policy term which required them to 
check it was suitable for their needs. Allianz has confirmed a mid-term adjustment was 
possible on the policy, subject to an additional premium being calculated, agreed and paid. 
So I cant fairly hold it responsible for the omissions or actions of other parties here. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Allianz to 
apply the provision of Average to this claim. The only other alternative available appears to 
have been for it to avoid the policy, which would have left Mr S1 and Mr S2 facing a shortfall 
of hundreds of thousands of pounds. 
Im not going to go into the full details of how Allianz calculated and applied Average, but I 
find its explanation of the settlement figure to Mr S1 and Mr S2 thorough and persuasive. 
I can see it has clearly shown that the rebuild costs of the property exceeded the sum 
insured, and it applied the remaining policy terms proactively, and in Mr S1 and Mr S2s 
favour. This included the provision of AA costs, storage costs, and contingency costs which 
all increased the total claim value. And it applied the policy indexing of the sum insured 
amount which increased the proportion of the settlement due. So Im satisfied that Allianz 
has treated Mr S1 and Mr S2 fairly and reasonably in calculating the claim settlement.
Ive considered Mr S1 and Mr S2s comments about the policy covering a limit of £500,000, 
and their concerns that the total cost of repairs will exceed Allianzs settlement. But the 
£500,000 limit they refer to is the sum insured value if the actual sum insured figure 
[£300,000] is lower. So Allianz has used the higher, indexed £500,000 amount as the sum 
insured and based its Average calculations on that, which I find reasonable.
Im satisfied that the remaining policy terms allow Allianz to settle the claim in the way it has 
set out. There isnt any provision for additional works which arent linked to the defect, and 
by settling the amount up front, Allianz has mitigated the possibility of Mr S1 and Mr S2 
having to front the full cost of the works before it pays out. Ive considered Cs report which 
sets out the costs of repairs and the criteria it used, and Ive not seen anything which refutes 
these costs, so Im satisfied they are reasonable for the repair work required.In summary, I find that Allianzs offer is fair and reasonable, in line with the policy terms, and 
I find it has clearly and transparently explained how it has arrived at this figure. So Im not 
going to require it to do anything further here.
Delays in the investigations
Ill now consider whether any underlying defects within the property can be shown to have 
been substantially made worse by Allianzs conduct since Mr S1 and Mr S2 made their 
claim.
Ive considered the events which led to Allianz re-engaging with the claim and what it knew 
about the cause of damage at the time. 
The claim was referred back to Allianz in July 2016 because Mr S1 and Mr S2s 
investigations via their surveyors suggested that the issue of subsidence was most likely due 
to defective foundations. This was in contrast to Allianzs initial findings which linked the 
subsidence to the proximity of tree roots in the soil.
However, at this stage I can see that it wasnt conclusive that the foundations were 
defective. Or that this was the predominant reason for the damage. I think the fact that both 
parties agreed that an independent expert needed to be engaged shows the complexity of 
the problem here. In addition, I can see that the independent expert also asked for further 
investigations and evidence to support their conclusions, which delayed matters by a 
number of months. As both parties had agreed to this expert, I cant fairly hold Allianz 
responsible for these delays.
From reviewing the subsequent timeline of events I can see that Allianz followed the experts 
advice and recommendations and accepted the claim once it was apparent the foundations 
were defective. Whilst I appreciate this part of the claim took some ten months to conclude, I 
dont think Allianz was in a position to conclude this claim any sooner or offer 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 a settlement figure any earlier than it did. I say this because the complexity 
of the claim meant there were a number of insured and non-insured considerations, and 
therefore I think it was reasonable for Allianz to explore any possible overlaps of liability with 
other parties as part of its overall investigation.
I acknowledge that Mr S1 and Mr S2 have said the problem was likely structural from the
outset and Allianz shouldve carried out more thorough investigations to identify the cause of
the damage. But the evidence shows that the conclusions Allianz reached in initially 
declining the claim werent unreasonable  they were based on the surveyors reports 
following their investigations. And once it became apparent that there was a likely different 
cause for the damage Allianz re-engaged with the claim. So I cant fairly say that this period 
of time caused damage which Allianz should be liable for outside of its settlement terms.
In order to uphold this point in Mr S1 and Mr S2s favour, Id need to see some evidence of 
the specific damage they feel the delays have caused. And I would need to see how this was 
clearly different from any damage linked to the underlying defect in the property.
Based on the information available to me, I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude Allianz is responsible for any additional damage, or anything to verify any 
additional damage costs. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.Compensation
In determining whether any compensation for distress and inconvenience is due, Ive 
considered a number of factors. Ive looked to see if there were any delays in the duration of 
the claim which I would deem as avoidable. Ive also considered Allianzs overall service to 
Mr S1 and Mr S2  which includes the actions of its appointed agents and contractors. 
Finally, Ive also considered the amount of time Mr S1 and Mr S2 spent dealing with the 
various issues in proportion to the overall complexity of the claim.
In conclusion, I can see that the investigations required by Allianz to identify the main cause 
of subsidence damage were extensive. The expert reports show that it wasnt immediately 
apparent that the foundations were defective when the matter was initially referred to Allianz 
in December 2014. Or when it was referred back a second time in July 2016. 
The reports provided by Mr S1 and Mr S2 in July 2016 were new evidence, and as such 
Allianz was required to undertake a series of investigations in order to establish if the claim 
could be covered. This included a referral to an independent expert and further site 
investigations in order to obtain soil samples at the bottom of the foundation depths. 
Ultimately, a number of experts were required to determine that the subsidence was due to 
both defective foundations and the impact of tree roots. 
I can see that once it was accepted that this was a valid claim, Allianz referred the matter to 
another expert in order to obtain costings and a scope of repairs. And the issue of 
underinsurance effectively meant this process needed to be restarted in order for Allianz to 
arrive at a fair and reasonable settlement. 
Having reviewed everything, Ive not seen any evidence which suggests that this process 
took substantially longer than it should. And in any event, Ive not seen anything which 
shouldve put Allianz on earlier notice as to the full extent of its liability under the policy.
In order to recommend compensation here, Id need to be satisfied that any delays by Allianz 
significantly worsened the issues being caused by the underlying defect for which it has 
already offered terms of settlement. And given the extensive scope of the investigations and 
actions required, Im not persuaded that it did so. So I wont be requiring Allianz to pay any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
With regard to the costs incurred by Mr S1 and Mr S2 for legal and professional fees, I can 
see that the policy terms dont provide a benefit for this. The legal and professional fees 
referenced in the policy apply to fees incurred in the repairing, replacing and/or 
strengthening of the property. The policy specifically excludes fees incurred for the 
purpose of preparing a claim under this Policy. So I cant require Allianz to fairly reimburse 
these costs. But I do find its gesture of goodwill to proportionately reimburse the fees 
incurred by Mr S1 and Mr S2 prior to them instructing a solicitor fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I have little doubt that Mr S1 and Mr S2 will be extremely disappointed with my decision. The 
developers actions in underinsuring the property will potentially cause them to incur 
considerable financial loss and upset. But as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the 
developers actions werent the responsibility of Allianz. And I find that it has provided a fair 
and reasonable settlement offer in the circumstances. So I wont be requiring it to do 
anything further, which I appreciate wont be the outcome theyre hoping for.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman