DRN-3679973
The complaint
Mr H complains about the interest rate Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has 
applied to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H and his wife hold separate credit card accounts with Barclaycard. Mr H is unhappy that 
the interest rate applied on his credit card account is different to that of his wifes. 
Mr H complained to Barclaycard. But his complaint wasnt upheld. Barclaycard said it 
couldnt discuss Mrs Hs credit card account with Mr H. But it explained that interest rates 
are set based on each applicants individual circumstances and arent the same for every 
customer. Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but, ultimately, he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He explained interest rates are set considering risk factors determined by the 
individual circumstances of each applicant. And that this service doesnt interfere with a 
lenders commercial judgement unless we find the lender had made a mistake. 
He added that hed looked at Mr Hs account and he hadnt seen anything to suggest 
Barclaycard had made a mistake in applying the interest rate. He also said that he couldnt 
consider Mrs Hs circumstances as she wasnt an eligible complainant in respect of this 
complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he said the complaint was in joint names as he and his wife 
shared a joint bank account and, as such, shared the same financial situation. He also 
mentioned a similar complaint he raised about loan accounts that he and wife held and 
which he felt was linked to this complaint. 
The investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but he didnt think this changed the outcome 
he had reached. He said he couldnt comment on the other complaint Mr H had referred to 
as that was being considered separately by another investigator. He also explained that 
credit card accounts arent held in joint names  hence, why this complaint was in Mr Hs 
sole name.   
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to reach a final decision. 
For clarity, this decision solely relates to Mr Hs credit card account.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. If I dont comment on every point, Id like to reassure Mr H (and 
Barclaycard) that I havent ignored them. But, in line with this services role as an informal 
body, Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint to decide if Barclaycard has done anything 
wrong.
Having done so, while I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter, Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand Mr Hs comments about him and his wife holding a joint account and 
that they treat their finances as being shared. But I think its important to explain that a credit 
card account is independent of a joint account and is held in a persons sole name. And only 
the account holder is liable for any outstanding balance on the account. As such, when a 
credit card account complaint is referred to us, it can only be referred by the sole account 
holder as they are the only eligible complainant under our rules. 
Mr H hasnt said that Barclaycard has made a mistake in applying the interest rate on his 
account. Rather, the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that the interest rate charged on his 
Barclaycard account is different to that of his wifes Barclaycard account. Mr H thinks this is 
unfair as he says their finances are shared jointly and all their account holdings are 
impeccably managed. 
But when agreeing credit, it is for the lender  in this case Barclaycard, to decide at what 
rate of interest it is willing to lend. Such decisions are made by assessing a range of 
information and factors. For example (but not limited to): information provided within the 
application (i.e. employment status, income, and details of other financial commitments), 
how existing accounts held with it are maintained and information obtained from the credit 
reference agencies. And it assesses this this information alongside its own lending criteria. 
Once the lender has done this and, if it agrees to lend, it issues a credit agreement. And 
ultimately it is for the applicant to decide if they want to accept the terms  including the 
interest rate, offered. 
In this case, Mr H agreed to the interest rate when he signed to agree to the terms in the 
credit agreement issued to him. Since then, the monthly account statements issued to Mr H 
clearly set out the applicable interest rate being applied. And Ive not seen anything that 
would persuade me the interest rate had been applied incorrectly. 
In addition to reviewing Mr H statements, I note Mr H has told us the interest rate that his 
wife is being charged. So, I think it might be helpful to add that both interest rates appear to 
be below the average representative annual percentage rate for the type of credit card held. 
Overall, and in conclusion, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard has done anything wrong or 
treated Mr H unfairly here. So, I wont be telling Barclaycard to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman