DRN-2197085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G, and their children including Miss G and Miss G, are unhappy with the way 
that Union Reiseversicherung AG has handled a claim they made on their travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were on holiday with their three children. Ill mainly refer to Mr and Mrs G as 
they have made this complaint on behalf of the family. 
On the last night of their holiday their villa was broken into and the safe was ripped out. They 
had a number of valuables stolen including their passports, gadgets and jewellery. They 
explained they felt very unsupported by the British High Commission and were desperately 
trying to get their new travel documents so they could make their return flights home. 
Unfortunately, it wasnt possible to do so and they missed their return flights. They had to 
rebook new flights at considerable expense. 
URV settled the claim for the lost possessions and have since referred the claim for gadgets 
to the underwriter who offers cover for that section of the policy. However, they declined to 
cover the cost of the new flights as they said the policy didnt cover this either under the 
missed departure section or the stolen passport section. Mr and Mrs G complained to URV. 
They agreed to pay Mr and Mrs G £150 per person in addition to paying the benefit under 
the policy for arranging emergency travel documents. URV said that this was a gesture of 
goodwill. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that URV had gone beyond what was required by the policy terms and explained 
that the limitations in the policy werent uncommon in the travel insurance industry.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They explained what a stressful and worrying time it was  
especially with three children. They were extremely disappointed with the lack of support 
provided by the British High Commission and said that a common-sense approach was 
called for. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions set out what is, and isnt covered, under the contract of 
insurance. They say:
If your cash or passport is lost or stolen on your trip we will pay: 
Up to £100 for a contribution towards the cost of an emergency travel document
Up to £150 for necessary costs incurred in collecting your replacement emergency 
travel document
Provided . 
You are not claiming for your missed return journey back to the United 
Kingdom, Channel Islands or BFPO
You are not claiming for any missed travel or accommodation arrangements 
as a result of your passport being lost or stolen 
The travel disruption section of the policy only applies to outbound flights. It says URV will 
offer cover provided: 
You are not claiming for your missed return journey back to the United Kingdom, 
Channel Islands or BFPO. 
 Is it unreasonable for URV to decline to cover the cost of the additional return flights? 
I have a great deal of empathy for Mr and Mrs Gs position. They clearly had a very stressful 
and upsetting experience as they had to stay abroad following the theft of their safe from 
their villa. Im really sorry to hear that they had such a difficult time and I can entirely 
appreciate how difficult it must have been, especially with three children to look after. 
However, my role is to decide whether URV have acted fairly including whether theyve 
acted in line with the regulatory requirements, good industry practice and the policy terms 
and conditions. Im satisfied that it has in the circumstances of this case: 
The policy doesnt offer cover for travel disruption or missed departure on the return 
journey. Again thats specifically set out in the terms and conditions. So, there is no 
obligation for URV to cover the additional flight costs 
URV has paid the maximum benefit to Mr and Mrs G that is available under the 
section of the policy which covers lost or stolen passports. Theyve settled the claim 
for each emergency travel document needed by the family and I think URVs offer to 
pay an additional £750 is fair. Theyve gone beyond what is set out within the policy 
terms and paid £150 per person despite the fact the policy excludes claims for 
missed travel or accommodation arrangements as a result of a stolen passport. I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances
Ive also taken into account that neither of the exclusions URV has relied on are 
particularly unusual in the travel insurance industry. Lots of policies limit the level of 
cover for the loss of travel documentation so thats not an unusual feature of this 
policy. Its also not unusual for missed departure and travel disruption cover to be 
limited to the outbound journey  lots of insurers require their policyholders to buy an enhanced level of cover to insure the risk of missing their journey home. 
Im really sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, and their family. But I think URV have gone 
beyond what the terms of the policy require them to do. So I dont think its unreasonable for 
them to decline to cover the shortfall in the cost of the flights.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, Mrs G, 
Miss G and Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman