DRN-3026119
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money she lost when she says 
she fell victim to a binary options investment scam.
 
What happened
Around October 2018, Ms C received a cold call from a representative of Market Trading. 
The representative explained how she could make some money by investing with them and 
she could withdraw her funds at any time. She was persuaded to open an account with them 
and was advised to first make smaller payments via a credit card  which she did. The 
representative then advised Ms C that she needed to make payments using her own money 
which would enable her to make more money  which she did.
 
The representative became aggressive with Ms C, pressuring her to add further funds to her 
Market Trading account and she would get upwards of 15 calls a day. Ms C did deposit 
further funds and noticed that Market Trading took payments without her permission. She 
queried this with them but they didnt want to acknowledge it. Between 23 October 2018 to 
28 November 2018 payments totalling £29,234.17 and transaction fees totalling £813.44 
were made from her HSBC credit card and HSBC debit card (linked to her current account).
On 27 November 2018, Ms C had a number of conversations with Market Trading and 
insisted she wanted to withdraw her funds (as she understood she could). Market Tradings 
representative told Ms C that the money in her account was expected to double by 30 
November 2018. Ms C was concerned that things werent adding up so she contacted HSBC 
for assistance.
HSBC reviewed Ms Cs claim and wrote to her on 24 January 2019. It concluded it couldnt 
assist with chargeback claims for her. It issued its final response shortly after giving Ms C 
referral rights to this office. 
One of our investigators initially looked into things and thought HSBC ought to have 
processed chargeback claims given the nature of the scam. He recommended that HSBC 
refund the payments in dispute. Ms C queried with our investigator whether her credit file 
would be rectified.
 
Another one of our investigators looked into things afresh. She didnt agree that HSBC 
should have processed chargeback claims. But she felt that Ms C had valid section 75 rights 
against Market Trading in relation to her credit card payments. She also felt that HSBC could 
have prevented the debit card losses. She suggested that HSBC should refund the debit and 
credit card losses. 
HSBC didnt agree. In summary it said:
Section 75 couldnt apply because Ms C did not pay Market Trading directly and 
instead paid a different company, as such, there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship;
The analysis of section 75 is wrong;
There is no justification for the conclusion that it ought to be responsible for all of the 
payments when the investigator found that it should have been concerned by the 
fourth payment not the first. The reasoning given for there being fraud triggers is 
wrong in principle; 
The investigator has applied a punitive level of interest of 8% to the refund, which 
should only be applied in exceptional circumstances. Save for the credit card 
payments, it is unclear how this level has been determined to be appropriate; and
The investigators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable. Ms Cs losses were directly referable to her failure to carry out 
appropriate research and her actions were objectively careless. The general principle 
that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions should be applied in the 
present case.
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
On 18 February 2022, I wrote to HSBC with some comments and queries. To summarise:
A warning had been published by the FCA about Markets Trading on 4 July 2017 and 
a further warning about them was published on the International Organization of 
Securities Commission (IOSCO) Investor Alerts Portal on 19 January 2018. I noted 
the discrepancy in the trading name of the company a warning was published about 
and the name of the merchant in dispute as there was a missing s in the name of 
the merchant Ms C was dealing with. But noted the same warning appeared under a 
search of either name. 
I noted that Market Trading didnt take the payments directly, rather, INTLSECLTD 
and INSIGHTSTRADER did. I queried whether the merchant category code used 
was the code commonly used for binary options dealers. 
The evidence supplied by HSBC indicated that it flagged Ms Cs credit card payment 
on 1 November 2018 but it didnt block payments or have any meaningful 
conversation with Ms C about them. I thought this would have prevented further 
payments, especially given that the sale of binary options to retail consumers (like Ms 
C) was illegal in the UK at the time. 
I queried where the current account payments originated from. I proposed a different 
rate of interest on the debit card payments if HSBC could confirm these originated 
from Ms Cs savings account. 
I considered that section 75 could be applied to the initial credit card payment and 
explained that INTLSECLTD were likely acting as a payment processor which 
wouldnt break the debtor-creditor-supplier chain but invited HSBC to provide further 
evidence as to why it felt the chain was broken. 
I explained that Ms C had complained about the impact the payments to Market 
Trading had on her credit file. I noted she did not formally complain about this prior to 
referring the matter to this office. But I explained if I thought the payments should be 
refunded, it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to remove the adverse 
information recorded in relation to them. I asked for HSBCs permission to consider 
the matter of Ms Cs credit file as part of this case or asked whether it would prefer to 
consider the matter as a new complaint issue.
HSBC replied and said in summary:
The merchant category code used in respect of the credit card payments was 6211, 
which is consistent with the code used by some binary options dealers. The debit card payments were made as a result of funds transferred to Ms Cs 
current account from her Savings account, which accrued interest at 0.25%. 
The bank does not intend to challenge the DCS aspect on this case. 
Ms Cs current account was closed in May 2019. The account has been with HSBCs 
Repayment Services team since June 2019. The outstanding balance on the 
account is £2,091.58. The bank would be agreeable to remove all associated 
adverse data should this office uphold the complaint on the premise that any refund 
would be used to repay the outstanding balance. 
I wrote to Ms C and explained what HSBC had said. I explained what HSBC had said and 
explained intended to propose a different rate of interest in relation to the debit card 
payments. I asked if Ms C had any further comments she would like to add. 
Ms C replied and in summary said:
The issue of her credit file was highlighted to both investigators early on after 
referring her complaint to this office;
Shes a single mother and is trying to buy a house and has not been able to do so 
since her credit file was impacted as a result of the fraudulent actions (HSBC);
She was asked to repay the outstanding balance on her credit card when all of her 
accounts had been frozen, she paid this on 5 September 2019. She doesnt think she 
should have been asked to repay the balance as the account was frozen and the 
matter had been referred to this office;
She should not be liable to repay the current account debt as it was the result of 
HSBCs fraudulent activity;
She said its difficult for her to reconcile the amounts on her credit card and debit card 
as shes had no sight of these since her accounts were frozen. She said it would be 
useful for a breakdown of her HSBC credit and debit accounts for her reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why. 
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms C for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Ms C using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by HSBC. I do recognise that Ms C says some payments were made without her permission, 
but I think its more likely that she did authorise the payments and grew concerned when she 
was unable to withdraw her available balances. So, although she did not intend the money to 
go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her bank 
account, Ms C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Ms Cs account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning her in order to ask discreet questions about 
the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Ms Cs case, the payments didnt go directly to Market Trading, they went via 
INTLSECLTD and INSIGHTSTRADER, so I dont think the payments, on their own, ought to 
have automatically triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems. However, I have noted that 
HSBCs fraud detection systems were triggered by Ms Cs payment to INTLSECLTD on 1 
November 2018. They tried and failed to contact Ms C but dont appear to have blocked the 
use of her credit card. HSBCs fraud department had a conversation with Ms C on 3 
November 2018 and confirmed the transaction to INTLSECLTD as genuine but didnt ask 
any questions other than seeking to confirm the payment was genuine. I think it would have 
been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Ms C before processing the payments to 
satisfy itself that all was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Ms C would have explained what she was doing. In such circumstances, whilst 
the bank had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could 
have pointed her to the FCAs website to check whether the merchant was regulated as they 
were carrying out regulated activities without permission. It could have also explained its 
own customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in 
that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at 
that time, the sale of binary options was banned by the European Securities and Markets 
Authority (ESMA) in the EU (including the UK). So the merchant was carrying out illegal 
activities. 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Ms C with any meaningful warnings or gave her 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments she was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.causation
If HSBC had asked Ms C what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with a representative of Market Trading. HSBC did not need to 
know for certain whether Ms C was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion 
are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of 
good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options 
dealers. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Ms C would have paused and looked more 
closely into Market Trading before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was willing to 
take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more 
probable that she would have made further enquiries into whether or not Market Trading 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered they were not and the 
various regulatory warnings about them specifically and about the risk of unregulated 
investment scams. In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank would 
probably have exposed Market Tradings smoke and mirrors, causing her not to invest and 
preventing any further losses.
Even if she had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind her supposed 
representatives (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK 
investments but highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the representative must lose 
if she is to win. So before Ms Cs payments were actually processed, she would probably 
have stopped in her tracks. But for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud 
or financial harm, Ms C would probably have no more than her initial credit card payment 
(which didnt trigger HSBCs fraud detection systems). 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Ms C was to blame for what 
happened. 
Ms C began with smaller investments (on her credit card account), so she was cautious. She 
was provided a legitimate looking trading account and a representative who would trade on 
her behalf. She was unaware of the common deceptive tactics of scammers, as 
communicated by Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 2017. When she couldnt withdraw her 
funds, she contacted HSBC immediately to ask for its help with recovering them. I do not 
think she could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with was a 
scam and the trading account she was viewing was likely to be a simulation. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Ms C should share blame for what happened.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974As Ms Cs initial credit card payment on 23 October 2018 didnt trigger HSBCs fraud 
detection systems, Ive considered whether s.75 could be applied to it. For s.75 to apply 
there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
HSBC now doesnt dispute that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here, so I 
dont need to consider this point further. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Ms C has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for the deposit-transaction as defined by the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Ms C had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit transaction and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transaction 
was financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Ms Cs claim is 
here. Its evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she 
was tricked into depositing the payment with Market Trading for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Ms C to deposit larger amounts. 
Ms C does not believe that Market Trading was operating legitimately and believes she was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Ms C was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Ms C was told by Market Trading matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick her into entering into the deposit-transaction, her claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if Market Trading made binding promises to her as part of those transactions and went 
on to breach these that would make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. HSBC has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that Ms C was paying into a binary 
options account and these are classed as a form of gambling by the UKs Gambling 
Commission. It said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, they were a 
credit to her trading account. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing more than 
transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the 
money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
Market Trading has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transaction. 
HSBC in its refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important 
to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything 
within the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transaction. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Ms C has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Ms C has made a claim of misrepresentation by Market Trading  that claim being 
that they represented to her that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Ms C into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Ms C could have ever received back more money than she deposited, then it 
follows that any statements made by Market Trading to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Ms C could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Ms Cs account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Ms Cs communication with Market Tradings representative; they did claim that Ms C 
could have made money from the trading platform. 
That induced her into entering the agreement
Again, had Ms C known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of her 
not investing with Market Trading. Consequently, should I be satisfied that Market Trading 
isnt operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Ms Cs account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated by the testimony of other complainants about the same merchant. Because of this Im minded to find her 
account to be truthful.
So, turning to her account, I note that she mentioned coming into contact with Market 
Trading via a cold call. Ms C says Market Trading promised her larger returns with a 
dedicated representative who started off slowly then increasingly became more aggressive 
in his demands for further payment. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by Market Trading. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual 
trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the 
merchant is offering little more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted FCA and IOSCO warnings published about Market Trading above and that they 
were not regulated or licensed in another jurisdiction as far as Im reasonably aware. Ive 
also noted that the sale of binary options was banned by ESMA at the time of Ms C entering 
into a contract with Market Trading.
Market Trading is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also 
several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Ms Cs.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
using credit - as Market Trading did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms.
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Market Trading was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Ms C  specifically 
that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have got back 
more than her deposit from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Ms C had known this, she 
wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transaction not have occurred the transaction fee couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of the deposit-transaction. As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Ms C to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Ms Cs 
payment of the transaction fee was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
I dont need to consider whether Ms C also has a valid breach of contract claim because Im 
satisfied she can claim the full amount of the loss of her deposit-transaction under a claim of 
misrepresentation along with the transaction fee as a claim for consequential loss. 
Credit file
HSBC has said it would remove any adverse information reported on Ms Cs credit file as a 
result of the disputed transactions, should I uphold this complaint. As I think HSBC should 
return all of Ms Cs disputed payments, it follows that it should also remove the adverse 
information recorded against Ms Cs credit file as a result of the disputed payments. 
I acknowledge this has been an extremely stressful time for Ms C given the impact this 
matter has had on her credit file and her financial situation. But the culprits responsible for 
most of this were the scammers (Market Trading). HSBC wasnt required to not request 
repayments, despite her referring the matter to this office as she is ultimately responsible for 
repaying her outstanding debts. However, the settlement will reflect an appropriate level of 
interest to compensate Ms C for HSBCs failings. 
In relation to HSBC using part of the settlement to repay Ms Cs current account debt, I dont 
think this is unreasonable and Ill explain why. Im instructing HSBC to refund all the 
payments Ms C is disputing and some of those payments took Ms C into an unarranged 
overdraft causing the debt on her current account. Therefore, HSBC would be entitled to use 
part of the settlement to repay this particular debt as it forms part of the refund.  
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund Ms C the payments in dispute, 
transaction fees, plus interest. HSBC should also remove all adverse information recorded 
on Ms Cs credit file in relation to this matter. 
HSBC should in relation to Ms Cs debit card (linked to her HSBC current account):
1. Refund all the payments made to INTLSECLTD and INSIGHTSTRADER, less any 
refunds made by them or Market Trading;
2. Refund the associated transaction fees;
3. Pay 0.25% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement; and
4. Refund any overdraft fees, interest or charges caused applied as a result of the 
payments referenced at point 1. 
In relation to Ms Cs credit card, HSBC should:
5. Refund all the payments to INTLSECLTD;
6. Refund the transaction fees; 
7. Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Ms C 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
HSBC will be entitled to use part of the above settlement to repay Ms Cs current account 
debt linked to the above disputed payments.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman