DRN-2739928
The complaint
Ms A complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
UK Credit lent Ms A £3000 in March 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded UK Credit did not make a fair lending decision. I agree with the 
investigators findings for these reasons:
oUK Credit says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Ms A. It 
says it asked her about her income and expenditure as well as go through a credit 
search with her on the phone. It used the information it gathered to assess the 
affordability of the loan for Ms A.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of around £185 and UK 
Credit says Ms A asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at UK Credit 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Ms A would 
have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But like the 
investigator, on balance I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision with what 
it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the credit search results, I can see that Ms A 
had 8 defaults recorded against her name and all of these had outstanding balances 
that had to be repaid. One default had only been incurred by Ms A a month before 
she requested a loan from UK Credit. Ms A had County Court Judgements with 
outstanding balances also.
oUK Credit say it asked Ms A about these defaults and CCJs and recorded down 
what she said. It says Ms A told it she was in dispute with one of the companies that 
had registered a default and the others she could repay with the proceeds from the 
loan. It says it also added the repayments for one of the CCJs to its assessment and 
calculated how much Ms A would repay on the other. But I dont think UK Credit 
acted on the information that it had in front of it. Instead it assessed what Ms A was 
telling it and whether she could afford the loan strictly on a pounds and pence basis. 
oI can see from the information UK Credit gathered, that Ms A was having problems 
managing her finances. She was unable, up to the point she asked for this loan, to 
repay the credit commitments that she had already taken out. She had consistently 
defaulted on accounts and had CCJs recorded against her name and I cant see how 
UK Credit would have taken any assurance from this or what Ms A had told it when it 
was assessing whether she would be able to repay the monthly instalments on this 
loan, over the 2 year term, in a sustainable way. And, in these circumstances, UK 
Credit should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Ms A.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Ms As complaint. UK Credit now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
While I think UK Credit shouldnt have lent to Ms A, I think it will be fair for her to repay the 
capital of £3000 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, UK Credit should:
add up all the payments made by Ms A, if it exceeds the capital amount of £3000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Ms A, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, UK Credit should treat Ms A fairly and look to 
arrange a payment plan that is affordable for her. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. UK Credit must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct UK Credit Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman