DRN-1808358
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Skipton Building Society unfairly prevented her porting her mortgage. 
As a result, Mrs V and he husband had to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) and 
would like this refunded together with her solicitors costs.
What happened
Mrs V and her husband sold a property and she wanted to port the mortgage to a new 
property which was an apartment in an apartment block. The mortgage application required 
a valuation. The valuer appointed by Skipton provided a Report dated 17 September 2019 
raising concerns about the balconies in the development which he said may contain 
combustible materials. The valuer wanted the building owner or his agent to provide a 
written statement addressing this issue. 
This issue wasnt resolved to the valuers satisfaction and Mrs V cancelled her application at 
the end of October 2019. Mrs V went to another lender who approved a mortgage without 
raising this issue. Mrs V had to pay an ERC to Skipton when she redeemed her mortgage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Skipton could rely on the advice of a qualified valuer. Mrs V disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read a considerable amount of documentation in respect of this complaint. Skiptons 
notes say that Mr and Mrs V were separating, and Mrs V wanted to port their mortgage and 
to do that she needed Skipton to approve a mortgage on her new apartment. Skipton 
appointed a valuer who was unhappy with a potential fire safety issue in the construction of 
the balconies in the development. The relevant part of the Report says:
The building incorporates balconies which may contain combustible material. The Building 
Owner and/or its agent, as the responsible person under the Regulatory Reform (Fire 
Safety) Order 2005, must produce a written statement, prepared by a suitably qualified 
independent professional adviser who is a member of one of the professional body (sic) 
approved by the Ministry of Housing, Communities.
At that stage and without this further documentation the valuer refused to value the property 
so Skipton couldnt make a formal mortgage offer. There was a lot of correspondence 
following this. The valuers position was that the balcony of the property was decked with 
timber/composite deck boards that might well comprise a combustible material. In his follow-
up emails to Skipton he referred to a number of relevant provisions dealing with preventing 
the spread of fire in apartment blocks He also quoted from MHCLG Guidance Note 21 
issued in June 2019 that said  The departments view endorsed by the Expert Panel is that  
these provisions apply to buildings  regardless of height and that building owners should 
need to ensure that any balconies do not compromise resident safety by providing a means 
of external fire spread. 
As I understand it, the valuer was echoing the Expert Panels concern that potentially 
combustible material in a balcony may lead to fire spread. The Expert Panel was set up to 
make recommendations following the Grenfell Fire disaster and issued a number of 
Guidances including the above. I note that these were later consolidated in January 2020 
and whilst clearly, they are concerned with high rise developments - those over 18 metres in 
height - they are also concerned with the potential for fire spread in developments of a lesser 
height. Although Mrs V has sent me documentation that suggests this Guidance applies to 
only high-rise or developments over 18 metres thats not how I read it.
In order to proceed to a valuation, the valuer wanted a written statement by a suitably 
qualified professional advisor confirming that the subject property met the then current 
guidance. In response the developer included a statement from the architect saying that as 
the building was less than 18 metres in height it didnt have to be constructed of non-
combustible materials but that the balcony materials have been specified of limited 
combustibility. Ive also seen a Report for a firm of consultants which refers to the external 
wall construction, external surfaces, insulation materials and cavity barriers but doesnt 
appear to refer to the balconies. Neither of these reports satisfied the valuer. 
. 
My role here is to see if Skipton has done something wrong and not to adjudicate between 
the developer and the valuer. Nor am I making any comments about fire-safety in the 
development. Skipton engaged a suitably qualified valuer to assess if this property was good 
security for the loan it was going to make. That valuer raised concerns about potentially 
combustible material on the balcony of the apartment and referred to recent Government 
Guidance which also expressed concerns about the potential for fire-spread on balconies. 
These concerns werent limited to high rise apartments but were relevant to the type of 
property Mrs V was buying. The developer disagreed and its concerns were passed to the 
valuer who looked to his technical director for advice and this re-affirmed that the valuer was 
correct to look for the statement he had requested.
My view is that Skipton did nothing wrong in relying on its valuers opinion. The valuer raised 
a reasonable query in relation to a fire safety issue and he wasnt satisfied with the 
responses. I note that the developers points were fairly put to the valuer and the valuer 
obtained further advice from within its firm but didnt alter his opinion. I cant see how in 
those circumstances that Skipton could have acted against its experts advice. I appreciate 
that this was unfortunate for Mrs V as it meant that she wouldnt have the advantage of 
porting if she moved to that property although, subject to approval, she may have been able 
to port had she bought a different property at that time. So, for the above reasons I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman