DRN-3472285
The complaint
Mr A complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) unfairly put missed payment markers on 
his credit file. He would like these removed, an apology and £200 compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Klarna accepts that although its the customer responsibility to keep  accounts up to 
date that Mr A might have been confused by how its automatic payments are set up. 
Although Mr A set up a direct debit mandate he didnt set up an autopay function to 
allow payments to be taken. So, it agreed to remove late payment markers for April 
and June 2021 but not the maker for July 2021. It also agreed to pay compensation 
for the inconvenience but only £50 not the £100 our investigator recommended.
I agree with Klarna that Mr A had some responsibly to keep across his own account. 
From Klarnas records its clear Mr A didnt open some documents such as his April 
statement and a friendly reminder about payment until some months later. I dont 
know why that was.
 However, given Klarna accepts its auto payments system might be confusing it 
doesnt seem logical to remove late payment markers for April and June 2021 but not 
July 2021. It seems that it was only made clear to Mr A what the problem was in a  
conversation transcript  on 30 August 2021, later confirmed by the final response 
letter in September 2021. I think its fair to remove the late payment marker in July 
2021 as I dont believe Mr A knew what the problem was at that point..
I  think the £100 payment for distress and inconvenience our investigator 
recommended was reasonable. As Mr A set up the direct debit mandate I think he 
intended to make the payments. So, I think the effect of not having the payments 
taken on his credit file would have been stressful and inconvenient... 
Mr A has told us that because of the negative credit information he has had to sell his 
house to arrange money for due payments. He hasnt evidenced why he needed or 
that he did take such drastic action. But he is liable for the payments on his account , 
so I dont feel I can reasonably  take this into account in looking at the level of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  that Klarna Bank AB (publ) should :-
Remove the late payment markers on Mr As credit file for April, June, and July 2021
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman