DRN-4138327
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided unclear information 
in a pension projection. And then took too long to provide him with a clear explanation for the 
figures itd provided.
What happened
Mr G has a pension policy with Aviva. He received a projection of his benefits at the end of 
September 2021. Mr G said this was not long after hed transferred his pension to Aviva from 
another provider.  
On page 12 of the document, in a section headed: How the charges reduce the value of 
your pension fund, Aviva provided an illustration of the effect of the charges on Mr Gs 
pension over time. The illustration stated that at the end of year 1, the total funds moved into 
income drawdown would be £52,900. But then said that after a total income of £0 was taken, 
the total Before charges fund would be £52,700. And that the total after taking all charges 
would be £52,400.
Mr G didnt understand why his fund was shown as reducing by £200 if no charges had been 
applied to the Before charges figure. So he asked Aviva for clarification.
Aviva replied to Mr G on 3 October 2021. But it answered the wrong question. Its response 
focussed on the actual charges that it had deducted, rather than the figures in the projection 
Mr G had queried. 
Mr G asked a further question to clarify. And Aviva responded to the correct question on 8 
October 2021. It said that the Before charges projected figures were based on the medium 
assumed growth rate of 1.5% each year. But that the projections had been adjusted for 
annual inflation of 2%, as required by regulation. It said that this was to take into account the 
fact that the relative value would decrease over time because the assumed annual rate of 
inflation was greater than the assumed investment return. 
Mr G then asked Aviva a new question after receiving the reply to his first question  
Can you show me Avivas calculations to display the exact £200 difference using your 
answer method below?
Aviva responded in full to this additional question on 20 October 2021. It showed how the 
figures in the illustration had been calculated. And said that they had been calculated in line 
with regulatory requirements.
Aviva raised a complaint later that day because Mr G had asked it why it hadnt provided 
clearer information in the first place. 
Aviva wrote to Mr G on 21 October 2021 to say that it had sent his query to its technical 
team to answer. Mr G said he wanted to discuss the resolution of his complaint with Aviva. It 
arranged for its complaint team to call Mr G. 
Aviva issued its first final response letter to the complaint on 3 November 2021. It upheld the 
complaint, as it felt that it shouldve provided the explanation Mr G asked for sooner. It also 
acknowledged that Mr G had found the illustration stressful given it showed reduced figures. 
Aviva apologised for the stress the illustration had caused Mr G. And said that it tried to 
make its correspondence as clear as possible. It also said it would ask its change team to 
consider adding additional information to the illustrations to help its customers understand 
the figures fully. 
Mr G asked to speak with Aviva as he didnt consider that his complaint had been resolved 
to his satisfaction. He also said hed experienced some additional problems when speaking 
to Aviva the previous week
Aviva told Mr G it would listen to the call Mr G had complained about. It also said it would 
consider further information Mr G had sent it about his complaint. 
Aviva issued its second final response letter on 5 November 2021. It said that having 
listened to the call between Mr G and Aviva on 27 October 2021, it felt its representative had 
handled the call well and in a helpful manner. 
Aviva acknowledged that the conversation hadnt progressed the resolution of the complaint. 
But felt that its representative had clearly explained that its normal process was to ask its 
customers what they deemed to be an acceptable resolution so it could try to meet their 
expectations. But that Mr G hadnt wanted to say what he felt was appropriate. And had 
instead repeatedly insisted that Aviva should compensate him what it would usually pay 
someone in this situation. And that hed asked its representative to barter with him. 
On 6 November 2021, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. He said hed repeatedly 
asked for an explanation of the £200 difference. But that it took him many emails to get an 
answer. He also felt that Aviva should put an asterisk explaining the difference or make the 
column heading completely clear so that other people understood where the reduction had 
come from. 
Mr G also said the issue had caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. He also felt that Aviva 
had wanted to close the complaint without it becoming a formal complaint. But that he wasnt 
happy with Avivas response as it hadnt resolved it to his satisfaction. Mr G said he wanted 
assurances that there would be no more errors in his pension and that Aviva would fully 
answer emails in a reasonable timeframe. He also said he wanted compensation for the 
distress the matter had caused him. 
Between 8 November 2021, and 13 January 2022, when Aviva issued a third final response 
letter to Mr G, Aviva and Mr G corresponded about the resolution of the complaint. And 
about Avivas complaint handling. Mr G didnt think it was reasonable for Aviva to have 
stopped trying to speak to him about his complaint just because an attempt to speak to him 
about it on 8 November 2021 hadnt been successful. He told this service on 14 December 
2021 that he wanted us to investigate the complaint handling. 
Aviva issued its third final response letter to Mr G on 13 January 2022. It didnt agree with Mr 
G that hed had no information about his complaint for a month after a call on 4 November 
2021 had ended mid-conversation. It said it had emailed Mr G shortly after this to tell him 
that it would look into the further points Mr G had raised during the call. And then issued its 
final response on 5 November 2021 to advise Mr G of his findings.
Aviva acknowledged that while it had tried to speak to Mr G on 8 November 2021 to discuss its response, it hadnt made any further contact about the complaints. It apologised for this. 
Aviva said it couldnt offer Mr G compensation as a goodwill gesture as it felt an apology was 
enough. It said it had decided this after it had fairly assessed the impact its error had had on 
Mr G. And that it had carried out this assessment in line with guidelines set by this service. 
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint in April 2022. He didnt think it should be 
upheld. While he acknowledged that Mr G had been required to ask on a number of 
occasions for clarity about his pension, and that the service couldve been better, he said 
that his pension hadnt been reduced because of a mistake. So he felt that Avivas apology 
was enough to settle the complaint. 
Our investigator said that the reduction was a result of charges being deducted from Mr Gs 
pension. And that as Aviva was entitled to those charges, it hadnt done anything wrong by 
taking them.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- He felt a reduction/charge of exactly £200 was unlikely, because it wasnt a set fee, 
but was a percentage charge based on his fund size. He said it was because exactly 
£200 had been deducted from his pension without his knowledge he had panicked. 
- He said it had taken lots of emails and conversations with several people to explain. 
And that while this was happening he was stressed and anxious. 
- He didnt think that Aviva shouldve rounded the reduction up to £200 as he didnt 
think this was very good for clarity and for understanding what had been deducted 
and why. 
Our investigator considered Mr Gs points. He said Aviva had explained what the reduction 
was for and that Mr G hadnt suffered financially. He also said that we dont expect a 
business to pay compensation in all instances. And that if Aviva had explained the situation 
to Mr G sooner his pension wouldve been in the same position. As Mr G hadnt suffered a 
loss, he still didnt think compensation was warranted.
Mr G said that the information Aviva provided wasnt clear and seemed misleading to him. 
And that he needed to know at a glance what exactly was happening with his pensions fees 
and charges. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 May 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. But I dont agree with our investigator that the 
reduction was a result of charges being deducted from Mr Gs pension. The reason for the 
£200 difference Mr G questioned was because the assumed annual investment return used 
in the projection (1.5%) was lower than the assumed annual inflation rate (2%), as Aviva has 
already explained. Therefore any projection into the future would show a reducing fund value 
over time. The reduction Mr G queried had nothing to do with actual charges. The figures 
provided simply showed a projection of what Mr Gs pension might be worth over time based 
on certain assumptions.While I agree with Mr G that the projections were difficult to understand, I dont agree that 
Aviva should pay him any compensation. I say this because from what Ive seen, the only 
mistake it made was to answer the wrong question in its 3 October 2021 email to Mr G, 
which it corrected on 8 October 2021. So, while I acknowledge that Mr G feels that it took a 
lot of time and effort to get an appropriate answer from Aviva about the reduction, I consider 
that Aviva responded in a timely manner. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr G. 
Ill explain my reasons for it.
Did Aviva respond to Mr Gs query in a timely manner?
From what Ive seen, Mr G received a pension projection from Aviva on 30 September 2021. 
He was unclear about what some of the figures meant. And, in particular, concerned by what 
appeared to be a genuine reduction to his pension that he didnt understand. So he 
reasonably asked Aviva for an explanation.
Aviva failed to answer Mr Gs specific question in its 3 October 2021 email. And instead 
answered a question about actual charges that itd taken from his pension. But this wasnt 
what Mr G needed. So he asked for clarification. Im satisfied that Aviva provided a 
reasonable response to Mr Gs original question in its 8 October 2021 email. 
Mr G then asked Aviva to provide calculations which showed how the £200 reduction had 
come about. 
Aviva provided a full response on 20 October 2021. This showed how the numbers Mr G had 
queried had been calculated.
Aviva said Mr Gs new query had been relatively complex. So it wouldn't expect its frontline 
staff to know the answer to this question instantly. It said this was why the response took a 
little longer than usual. 
While I can understand why Mr G considers he had to write a lot of emails and speak to 
many people to clarify the answer to his question, I cant fairly agree that this was the case. 
The evidence shows that although Aviva did initially answer the wrong question, it answered 
Mr Gs actual question six working days after he first asked it.
And while Mr G then required further information which took an additional eight working days 
to provide, I cant fairly say this was an unreasonable timescale. I say this because I agree 
with Aviva that the information requested was fairly technical.
Should Aviva pay Mr G compensation?
Aviva has acknowledged that it shouldve provided Mr G with an explanation sooner than it 
did. And apologised for the time taken and for the stress it had caused Mr G. But it didnt 
consider that any monetary compensation should be paid to Mr G as it didnt think the impact 
of the delay had been significant. And he hadnt lost out financially. 
Aviva also said that it would ask its change team to consider adding additional information to 
the illustrations to help its customers understand the figures fully.  
I consider that this was a fair and reasonable response under the circumstances of the 
complaint. I say this because, although I acknowledge that the projections have caused Mr 
G some distress, I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for that. The projections met regulatory 
requirements and Ive found no errors in them. 
I also considered Mr Gs final complaint about the 27 October 2021 phone call with Aviva in which a satisfactory resolution to the complaint was discussed. Having listened to that call, I 
cant fairly say that Avivas representative did anything wrong. I consider that she followed 
Avivas usual complaints process and tried to find out what Mr G wanted in order to resolve 
his complaint.
I note that Mr G has also complained about how his complaint has been handled. 
Consumers do sometimes tell this service that theyre upset about how a business has 
looked into their complaint. When this happens, we have to carefully identify precisely what 
the complaint thats been referred to us is about, and whether its within our jurisdiction.
If the complaint to us is solely about the complaints process, without any connection to the 
underlying financial service that the firm provided, then we may not have jurisdiction to look 
at it.
In this case, the complaint about Avivas handling of Mr Gs complaint wasnt about the 
provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service. And because of this, it is outside the 
scope of our jurisdiction.
I acknowledge that Mr G became concerned about the figure he queried with Aviva because 
it was exactly £200. But the reason it was an exact figure was because it was in a projection. 
It doesnt make sense to use more exact figures than this in a projection as that can make 
the figures shown look more like real figures, as opposed to estimates of what the future 
fund might be worth based on lots of assumptions. 
I also appreciate that Mr G felt stressed and anxious over the whole period he was waiting 
for full clarification of the figures shown in the illustration. Im very sorry he felt this way. But I 
cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for this. I say this because I think it was clearly 
stated that the figures Mr G queried were projections, not actual fund values. 
Overall, I dont intend to uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive given above.
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva had nothing to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr G didnt agree with my decision. He made the following points:
- He didnt think it was helpful to give rounded pension projections in a generic letter. 
And said that a £200 deduction without any explanation was going to cause concern. 
He felt the documentation shouldve been clearer, so it wasnt misleading.
- He didnt think hed received a good service from Aviva when hed asked it for 
clarification. And he felt that its response had taken too long. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I acknowledge that Mr G feels very strongly about his complaint, Im satisfied that Ive 
already addressed the points he made after I issued my provisional decision in that decision. 
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman