DRN-1789157
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) turned down a storm damage claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs Hs flat roof started leaking. Rain water got into one of the bedrooms, 
causing damage to the bedroom and to the living room ceiling. She called Ageas to make a 
claim for storm damage.
Ageas turned down her claim. It said there hadnt been any storm conditions around the time 
of the damage. And it said Mrs Hs daughter had told it the water had got in because of a 
build up of debris and a branch in the guttering. It pointed to terms in its policy which said 
claims caused by things that happened over time, or due to wear and tear werent covered. It 
also explained she didnt have any accidental damage cover on her policy, so it couldnt look 
at the claim under that section.
Mrs H was unhappy with Ageas decision. She sent it information from the Met Office, which 
said thered been exceptionally heavy rainfall during June. She said this had accumulated, 
leading to the problems with her roof. She also provided a cutting from a local newspaper, 
which talked about persistent heavy rain locally. And she sent a letter from her builder which 
said the roof was cleaned and swept each year, and the property was in a good condition. 
She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought the evidence Mrs 
H had provided showed there had been storm conditions at the time of the claim. And she 
didnt think it was fair for Ageas to rely on the wear and tear exclusion in the policy to turn 
down the claim when it hadnt inspected the cause of the damage. So she thought Ageas 
should reconsider the claim for storm damage. And she recommended that Ageas should 
pay Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had caused her.
Ageas disagreed with our investigator. It said a well-maintained roof wouldnt let water 
through. It attached screenshots from weather reports to show thered been no significant 
rain in the area. It maintained there hadnt been storm conditions around the time of the 
claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 March 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was for Ageas to turn down Mrs Hs claim. I said:
'When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ageas hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer 
hasnt included a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a 
storm  involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of 
Mrs Hs claim.
Ive carefully considered local weather reports around the time of the claim to see if there 
were prevailing storm conditions. I can see a couple of incidences of dry storm (high winds) 
a few months before the claim. But there was nothing in the few months before the claim to 
suggest there were violent winds, which were accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
So I looked at the weather report for the two weeks covering just before and when the claim 
was made. The maximum hourly rainfall the week before the claim was made was 2.6mm 
per hour. The following week, the maximum hourly rainfall was 8.4mm per hour. (Although I 
see this was after Mrs H had already got in touch with Ageas to make her claim).
I accept that there were periods of heavy rain around the time of the claim. And that there 
was persistent rain throughout England in June 2019. But I dont think this rainfall was of 
sufficient intensity to be considered as a storm. Particularly when it wasnt accompanied by 
strong winds.
Mrs H has sent us information from the Met Office which describes the heavy rain conditions 
during June 2019. I can see though that the information relates particularly to very heavy 
rainfall in other parts of England. I cant see any specific reference to her local area. Ive 
looked carefully at the local newspaper cutting shes sent in. This does confirm a local river 
was high and sporting events had had to be cancelled due to water-logged ground. But I 
dont think I can place more weight on this evidence than information recorded at weather 
stations specially set-up for the accurate recording of weather conditions.
Overall, having considered the evidence, I dont think there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of the claim. This means the answer to the first question is no. So I 
currently think it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mrs Hs storm claim. And because I 
think it was fair for Ageas not to deal with Mrs Hs claim, Im also not planning to tell Ageas 
to pay any compensation for her trouble and upset.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence or information they wanted me to look at 
by 23 April 2020.
Ageas accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs H disagreed with my provisional decision. She felt I hadnt understood her complaint. 
She said it hadnt been a gradual leak; thered been awful weather conditions at the time. 
The newspapers from around the time of the claim showed storms and awful weather. A 
builder had swept her roof three weeks previously and had confirmed it was in perfect 
condition. She also felt Ageas had treated her poorly when she called to make the claim. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs H, Ive decided it was fair for Ageas to turn down her claim. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mrs H that Ive listened carefully to the calls she had with our investigator 
after I sent my provisional decision. I do appreciate how strongly she feels about this 
situation and Ive thought carefully about all shes said.
But my role is to be independent and impartial of both parties and to come to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. I have to make my decision based on the evidence available to me. 
Mrs Hs policy only provides storm cover if there are storm conditions around the time of the 
claim. In this particular case, Ageas has turned down Mrs Hs claim because it doesnt think 
there were prevailing storm conditions around the time. So the best source of evidence I 
have to decide if there were storm conditions or not are local weather reports taken from 
local weather stations. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ive looked closely at the local weather reports for 
the couple of weeks around the time of Mrs Ms claim. The highest recorded rainfall during 
the week before the claim was 2.6mm. The maximum rainfall recorded during the week of 
Mrs Hs claim was 8.4mm (but this was recorded after Mrs H had told Ageas about her 
claim.) This rainfall wasnt accompanied by strong winds.
I appreciate Mrs H has provided newspaper reports which do show thered been persistent 
rain in the area. And information from the Met Office shes provided does show other areas 
in the UK had exceptionally high levels of rainfall during June 2019. But in my opinion, the 
weather reports for Mrs Hs local area simply dont show the rainfall during around the time 
of the claim was sufficiently intense to be considered as storm conditions. 
Id like to reassure Mrs H that Im not judging the condition of her roof, or making any finding 
about whether the damage was down to wear and tear.  Ive simply looked at whether there 
were storm conditions, because without them, there cant be storm damage. Because I don't 
think there were storm conditions around the time of Mrs H's claim, I still think it was fair for 
Ageas to turn it down on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
don't uphold Mrs H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman