DRN-2169034
The complaint
Mrs M has complained to us that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she took out a store card in October 2002.
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision
What happened
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs M £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as 
I understand it, it wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs M was 
off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared.
In my provisional decision dated 8 August 2020 I explained why I was not intending to 
uphold this complaint for the reason given by our adjudicator. In addition, I explained why I 
was satisfied that Mrs M was aware shed bought PPI, that she was eligible for the cover  
and that the policy terms would not have put her off buying the policy. I set out an extract 
below: 
The adjudicator concluded that better information about the costs and benefits of the 
policy would have put Mrs M off taking the policy out. This is because he thought Mrs M 
had sufficient existing work benefits and savings available at the time of the sale. She told 
us that she would have received at least 6 months full pay from her employer. She also 
told us she had at least 6 months worth of savings. 
However, I see that Mrs M had previously told AXA that she had less than 3 months worth 
of savings. Given that apparent inconsistency and not having better details about Mrs Ms 
sick pay and savings, I asked another adjudicator to contact Mrs M for more further 
details. But despite numerous attempts to speak to her by phone, she hasnt been able to 
come back to us with anything more. So as things stand, I am unable to conclude that its 
more likely that Mrs M had a level of employment benefit and savings such that she didnt 
need the PPI. 
I appreciate the sale took place a very long time ago, but without further help on these 
points from Mrs M, I cant currently say that the policy wouldnt have provided good value 
for her. I say this particularly as the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms existing 
means. And on my current reading of what we know about Mrs Ms sick pay sick pay, it 
would have done so for a longer period of time. And it would also have paid out if she lost 
her job. 
If Mrs M is able to sufficiently clarify her circumstances at the time of the sale with regards 
to her sick pay and particularly with regards to her savings then I can take another look at 
this aspect of the complaint.
We sent Mrs M and AXA a copy of my provisional decision. We also tried to contact Mrs M 
by phone and then by writing to her without success.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Given that Mrs M hasnt come back with any of the further information about her employer 
sick pay and savings at around the time she took out the PPI, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of the PPI and so I will not be 
requiring AXA to take any action to compensate her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and explained in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman