DRN-3986041
The complaint
Mr B complains that Target Servicing Limited, the administrators of his help to buy shared 
equity loan, wont agree to him taking out further lending secured against his property.
What happened
Mr B bought his property with the aid of a mortgage and a help to buy loan in 2021. A help to 
buy loan is a form of shared equity loan  meaning its secured by way of a second charge 
over his property, but that rather than repaying a fixed sum (plus interest) hes required to 
repay the same percentage of the propertys then value as he initially borrowed.
Since buying his property, Mr B has taken out further unsecured debt. To reduce his overall 
outgoings, he decided to take out further borrowing on his first charge mortgage to 
consolidate the debt.
Its a term of the help to buy loan agreement that the lender must consent to any further 
secured lending or later charges over the property, even if they rank behind the help to buy 
loan, or even if the further borrowing is on the existing main mortgage. So Mr B applied to 
Target for permission for further borrowing on his mortgage. Target told him that permission 
had been refused.
Target is not the lender; the lender is Homes England, a government agency. Homes 
England is not a regulated entity which falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. But Target is, and as Target has been appointed to administer the 
loan on the lenders behalf and is carrying out a regulated activity in doing so, this complaint 
has been brought against Target.
Mr B complained. He said hed told Target that he was never told when he took out the loan 
that he wouldnt be able to take further borrowing. He said he had experienced personal and 
family difficulties as a result of the coronavirus pandemic which led to him accruing further 
debt. He was now struggling with the debt and feared being forced to sell his home. He said 
that his property had gone up in value substantially since he bought it, which meant he could 
take further borrowing on the main mortgage and still remain below the total 95% loan to 
value of the mortgage plus help to buy loan hed started with. 
Mr B said the payments on his unsecured lending were unsustainable and that because of 
the equity hed built up other solutions such as bankruptcy would be very damaging to him. 
He said that he was accessing support with his mental health and was desperate to resolve 
his situation. And hed been advised by debt advisers that using the equity in his home was 
the best option for him.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mr B didnt agree. He said it 
wasnt fair to refuse his request, as agreeing wouldnt cause the lender any loss. He referred 
to guidance on help to buy loans, which said Advances for any other purposes [apart from 
repaying a help to buy loan] will considered on a case by case basis, and that extra 
borrowing could be agreed to pay for other personal circumstances that you agree with us. 
He said that additional borrowing for debt consolidation is standard practice, and it was very 
restrictive to refuse to agree it when there was a help to buy loan. He said that if the terms of 
the agreement prevented his request then the terms were unfair, and it wasnt right that a 
lender with only a 20% share of the equity in his property had a veto over the use of the 
other 80%. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this complaint is against Target, Target isnt the lender. I have no power over the 
lender, since it isnt a regulated entity. 
But as the regulated administrator, Id expect Target to exercise its responsibilities fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances. As the regulated administrator, Target is required to 
comply with the lenders obligations and perform the lenders duties.
The lenders duties in situations like this are set out in the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement. These are the terms and conditions Mr B agreed to, and signed as part of the 
deed agreeing to a charge over his property, when he took out the loan. 
Section 4.15 of the terms and conditions says that the borrower covenants with the lender:
 not to create or permit to subsist any Security Interest on the Property, save for:
 any Security Interest created with the prior written consent of the lender
Security interest includes a mortgage or other secured lending.
Section 10.1 of the terms and conditions says
This Mortgage shall have priority immediately after one (1) prior legal charge 
(including any further advances issued in accordance with that legal charge for the 
purposes below) securing an amount advanced to the Borrower by a lending 
institution which is a Qualifying Lender for the purposes of enabling the Borrower to 
10.1.1 Acquire the Property; or
10.1.2 Fund improvements in the Property which have been approved by the 
Lender; or
10.1.3 Redeem a sum pursuant to Clause 7 or 8; or
10.1.4 Refinance an existing loan made in accordance with this clause 10.1
Provided that such legal mortgage (or any further advances) is approved in writing by 
the Lender and that capital sum advanced under such legal mortgage (or a further 
advance as applicable) does not exceed, where clause 10.1.1 applies, the sum equal 
to the Initial Market Value less the Contribution and any deposit paid by the borrower 
or where clause 10.1.2 applies, the amount payable in respect of such improvements 
or where clause 10.1.3 applies, the sum required to redeem a sum pursuant to 
clause 7 or 8 or where 10.1.4 applies, the amount originally borrowed under the 
existing loan (plus any further advances) as approved in accordance with this clause 
10.1.
What that means is that under clause 4.15, Mr B is not permitted to take out a further secured loan (such as a third charge loan) without the lenders consent. And under clause 
10.1, he can only take out a further advance on his main mortgage with the lenders consent, 
and then only to pay for home improvements or to fund repayment of his help to buy loan. 
The lender does not have to consent to further borrowing for any reason other than those set 
out in clause 10.1.
Mr B says that clause 10.1 means he can increase his main mortgage back to what it was 
when he bought the property  but I dont think it does mean that. The part he is referring to, 
that the sum advanced does not exceed the market value less the help to buy loan (the 
contribution) and his deposit, only applies where clause 10.1.1 applies  in other words, it 
applies to the original purchase, and prevents him borrowing more than he needs to buy the 
property. Clause 10.1.4 allows re-financing  but this means shopping around for a new 
interest rate, not further borrowing with the existing lender. 
Target says that in practice the lender generally only consents to further borrowing on the 
main mortgage in the following situations:
Following a relationship breakdown, where one joint owner would be buying out 
another;
To borrow more on the main mortgage in order to use the funds to reduce the 
borrowing on the help to buy loan; or
To raise funds to make necessary adaptations to the property, for example to meet 
medical needs.
This broadly reflects what clause 10.1 says, except that it goes further to also allow further 
borrowing for necessary adaptations. 
The guidance Mr B refers to doesnt override the terms of the contract  and in any case 
doesnt add anything to what the contract does, as it simply says the lender will consider a 
request. It doesnt say a request must be agreed.
I do sympathise with Mr Bs position, and understand why he wants to take out further 
borrowing on his mortgage to help with his unsecured debts. 
But thats not something thats permitted by the terms of his help to buy loan, which he 
agreed to when he took it out. Its understandable that the lender doesnt want to increase 
the size of the first charge mortgage, which takes priority over the help to buy loan, as that 
increases the risk there wont be enough equity for the help to buy lender to recover what its 
owed. 
Mr B says theres currently enough equity for this not to be a problem. But if property prices 
were to fall in the future, or the balance on the first charge mortgage were to increase further 
(for example through arrears), the amount of his debt to his first charge lender (which is a 
fixed amount) could exceed the original percentage loan to value. And given the help to buy 
loan is a percentage of the propertys value not a fixed sum, if that were to happen there 
might not be enough left over to pay the help to buy lenders share after the main mortgage 
is paid off. 
As I say, I have no jurisdiction over the lender. Under the terms and conditions, further 
borrowing isnt permitted without the lenders agreement, and then only in limited 
circumstances. The lender wasnt obliged to agree to Mr Bs request. 
My jurisdiction is over Target. Target is required to perform the lenders duties under the contract  but the contract does not give the lender a duty to agree to Mr Bs request. So I 
cant say that Target acted unfairly in not giving Mr B consent to take out the further 
borrowing. Acting fairly, Target should have put Mr Bs request to the lender for its 
consideration. It did that, explaining Mr Bs situation. As the lender wasnt required to agree, 
I cant fairly uphold a complaint that Target acted unfairly in not consenting on the lenders 
behalf in its role of administering the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman