DRN-4115615
The complaint
Mr H complains as a director of D, a limited company, that American International Group UK
Limited (AIG) has so far refused to settle his claim for water damage to a guest house and
has asked for what he feels to be unnecessary information. The claim was dealt with by loss
adjusters on behalf of AIG, though for convenience unless I say otherwise I shall refer to AIG
throughout.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H discovered that leaking water had caused considerable damage to
the guest house owned by D. He made a claim to AIG who appointed an engineer to carry
out a site visit and to prepare a report on the damage and likely cost of repair.
Following the engineers report AIG was concerned that the property wasnt occupied at the
time of the claim. It asked Mr H for a timeline as to when the property was last occupied and
when it last had guests staying. Mr H was also advised that AIG would need to get
statements from Mr H and his son. It later said it didnt need his sons statement but still
required a statement from him, the timeline, and contractors quotes.
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigators view
was that it was reasonable for AIG to ask for that information. Mr H accepted this and a
statement was taken from him. Following that AIG then requested further information from
Mr H concerning the occupancy of the property, in particular monthly turnover records for
2020 and 2021, utility bills for the same period and his plumbers report and invoice.
Mr H was willing to supply the plumbers report/invoice but otherwise felt he had supplied
everything to AIG that it had asked for but that it kept coming back to him with requests for
further information. He felt that AIG should accept the claim. He wasnt claiming for Business
Interruption as the premises had been closed for a time before the claim because of
Covid 19. He referred his complaint back to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator thought the information being requested by AIG was reasonable, but that as 
Mr H wasnt claiming for Business Interruption, the information regarding turnover wasnt 
necessary.
AIG disagreed as it said the information was needed to establish its overall claim liability, 
particularly as to occupancy
Mr H also disagreed as he felt that he had provided all the information AIG had asked for 
and it kept coming back asking for more instead of dealing with the claim.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst agreeing with the Investigators view, I 
thought it was reasonable for AIG to ask for information regarding the turnover of the 
business.
Mr H said he strongly disagreed. And AIG has made no further response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
I can understand Mr Hs frustration. But an insurer is entitled to ask for information and
supporting evidence concerning a claim. And whilst I understand that he wants AIG to make
its decision and settle the claim, I dont think it was in a position to agree that once he had
made his statement, it wouldnt still require further information.
I say this as AIG has consistently made it clear that it has concerns about the occupation of
the premises prior to the escape of water. And Mr Hs statement doesnt reflect what the
engineer was told in November 2021 about Mr H occupying the premises.
So I think then it was reasonable for AIG to ask for evidence that might show the occupancy
of the premises up until the claim, which utility bills might. But AIG would also be concerned
about the commercial occupancy of the premises, i.e. paying guests. It is for that reason it
asked for the records of the businesss monthly turnover for 2020 and 2021. I realise that for
part of the period the business was closed down because of Covid 19 but I do think it
reasonable for AIG to request that information, so it can assess its liability.
I cant require Mr H to provide that information, but it is in his best interests to do so. And he
should be aware that the policy requires him to cooperate with AIG. Whilst I would expect
AIG to be able to make its decision about its liability for the claim after receiving that
information, I dont know what the information it has requested will reveal. It is possible, and
wouldnt necessarily be unreasonable for AIG to view that and decide it needs more detail.
Whilst I understand Mr H strongly disagrees with my findings, he hasnt made any further 
comment.
So as neither party has made a substantive response to my provisional findings, I remain 
persuaded by them. Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman