DRN-2201117
The complaint
Ms R complains that TSB Bank Plc has recorded a fraud marker and closed her account 
after she reported payment she hadnt authorised.
What happened
Ms R contacted TSB and said that she hadnt made five faster payments from her account 
on consecutive dates between 25 and 29 January 2020. These totalled £420 and she 
explains had all gone to her husbands bank account and then been withdrawn without his 
knowledge. He had reported this as fraud to the authorities.
TSB said that the payments had been made with a mobile phone device Ms R had routinely 
used before. Access to that device was made using biometrics - finger print recognition. And 
Ms R had been in possession of her phone. So, it couldnt see how anyone else could have 
made the payments. It wouldnt be refunding them and said it was entitled to close her 
account. TSB said it had reported what happened to CIFAS, the national fraud database, 
stating that there had been a false report of loss.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The evidence from TSB 
supported the conclusion that Ms R had authorised the payments by accessing the account 
herself. He had contacted Ms Rs husband with her permission. Her husband said he had at 
times left his card with possessions at work. But there was no explanation how his PIN could 
have been discovered. And although her husband thought his card had been cloned that 
wasnt possible with a chip. Ms R had also made reference to a number of articles about 
fraud and data breaches, but these didnt explain the circumstances here.
Ms R wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she was concerned about the 
security of her account and the systems at TSB. And that shed being relying on the use of 
her fingerprint and a three-digit code to access her account. This had caused her anxiety 
and depression and we now seemed to be pointing the finger at her husband. She could see 
the logic of why someone might think they carried this out. But she knew they hadnt done 
so. She wasnt willing to be considered a fraudster and not having a bank account was very 
inconvenient for her. She referred to the online articles again and said that the only thing she 
knew for sure was that she didnt make these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Ms R wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
I also need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, TSB 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive seen the payment logs and Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated using   
Ms Rs personal details. As TSB says this involved the use of her device and finger print 
recognition five times. That device was used before and after these payments. And Ive seen 
nothing to show that it was hacked in some way as Ms R maintains. So, the published online 
information shes provided about security issues doesnt assist me with her complaint.
Given that then it is difficult to see a likely scenario in which someone else who wasnt acting 
with Ms Rs authority could have made these payments. There is no explanation of how 
someone could have her phone in the evening on five consecutive days and also access the 
app using her fingerprint. Ive thought about whether she perhaps could have been tricked 
by someone into providing access to her phone or whether she allowed someone she 
trusted to use it. But that would have needed to happen on five occasions as I say. Ive also 
considered the possibility that she might have been mistaken about making the payments. 
But thats clearly not her explanation and she is very firm in her insistence she didnt make 
them
I note that Ms R made genuine payments to her husbands account the previous month. I 
would think it unusual if a fraudster used an existing beneficiary for these payments. Such a 
fraudster would need to be sure that money could be withdrawn. There was also a 
substantially higher balance than these payments in Ms Rs account at the time and I would 
think it likely that someone able to access her account without her authority would take as 
much money as soon as possible. And thats especially as she had access to her account 
herself during this period and might have spotted what was happening. Theres also no 
evidence of any further attempted withdrawals like this after she reported this.
Im afraid, taking all this into account, I find that its most likely Ms R authorised the 
payments. Im not making findings about what any other party might have done in a 
complaint from Ms R about TSB. And so, Im not deciding how the money was taken from 
her husbands account. 
As Ive found Ms R authorised the payments it follows she didnt have a genuine fraud loss. 
And so, I think TSB had grounds to close her account immediately under the terms and 
conditions. It also believed that she had made a fraudulent claim and applied the marker at 
CIFAS.
Ive looked at whether TSB was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and 
the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out 
checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially 
means that TSB needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. 
And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud 
or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. Having reviewed Ms Rs 
account of events and the evidence TSB has provided, Im satisfied that TSB had sufficient 
evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded on the basis she had made a false claim of 
loss.
I appreciate how disappointed she will be by my findings and when I say that I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require TSB to take any further action on her complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman