DRN-1824420
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) rejected her claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss H bought an all-inclusive holiday abroad for her and her son through a 
holiday provider  who Ill refer to as T. The cost of the holiday was around £3,200 and she 
paid for it with her John Lewis credit card. Miss H was unhappy with the quality of the hotel. 
In particular, she highlighted the following things:
The first room they were given had a double bed which Miss H says wasnt suitable 
for sharing with her son. Miss H wanted a room with two single beds. Miss H 
complained about this room to the hotel. (Room 1)
The hotel moved them to another room straight away which Miss H says was located 
at the top of the hotel building. Whilst this room had two single beds, Miss H says she 
noticed after six days of being in this room that the beds had mould and also bed 
bugs. In addition to this, Miss H says the room had insects in it. The hotel then 
fumigated the room to resolve the issue with bed bugs. Miss H says she was told she 
had to stay in this room until another room became available for her  Miss H says 
she stayed in the room for a total of eight nights. Miss H was unhappy with this as 
she says her son suffers from a health condition which affects his breathing and the 
fumigation and mould was a risk to his health. Miss H also says she suffers from a 
health condition which was made worse at the time due to the location of the room 
being high up in the hotel building. (Room 2)
The hotel then moved Miss H and her son to a third room for the remainder of the 
holiday. Although this room was an upgrade to the room Miss H had originally paid 
for, Miss H said the jacuzzi bath and the sliding door to the balcony were dirty.  
(Room 3)
Miss H says the food at the hotel was also of unsatisfactory quality  in particular, the 
meat was raw and undercooked. So, Miss H says her son didnt eat at the hotel 
restaurant. Miss H has also told us the hotel entertainment wasnt suitable.
John Lewis say they were unable to determine if a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
had occurred based on the evidence Miss H had provided. However, John Lewis offered 
Miss H a 25% refund of the total cost of the holiday as a gesture of goodwill - this worked out 
to be £805. John Lewis credited Miss Hs account with £50 in October 2019 for the delay in 
progressing Miss Hs claim and added 1000 loyalty points (the equivalent of £10) to her 
account in January 2020. John Lewis also credited Miss Hs account in October 2019 with 
£70 as compensation for incorrectly blocking her credit card.
Miss H didnt accept John Lewis offer of 25% refund of the holiday and initially asked for 
50% refund of the total cost of the holiday to remedy the breach of contract.
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs concerns. Ultimately, he said that he thought there had 
been a breach of contract. He didnt think the experiences Miss H complained of showed 
that the hotel had acted with reasonable care and skill. So, he recommended that John 
Lewis refund Miss H a total of eight nights stay - which was the number of nights Miss H and 
her son stayed in room two.  Our investigator worked this out to be £1,154.24. 
Our investigator initially recommended John Lewis pay Miss H £250 compensation. 
However, after considering John Lewis response, he reached the conclusion that John 
Lewis didnt need to pay Miss H £250 compensation. 
John Lewis agreed to reimburse Miss H for the eight nights, but Miss H didnt agree. She 
reiterated that all the rooms she stayed in with her son were of unsatisfactory quality. Miss H 
said that fumigating the second room was a health risk to her son. Miss H has asked for 
£250 compensation that our investigation initially recommended. Miss H said this would 
compensate her for the two nights she and her son had to stay in the second room whilst it 
was being fumigated.
 
I provided both parties with my initial thoughts on Miss Hs complaint. And I explained that I 
thought there had been a breach of contract in respect of the standard of Room 2. As such I 
thought the 25% refund that John Lewis had initially offered was a fair remedy. John Lewis, 
nonetheless, agreed to honour the cost of eight nights stay which was around 40% of the 
cost of the holiday. But Miss H says this amount doesnt fully compensate her for the poor 
quality holiday. Miss H has still asked for the £250 compensation. As Miss H didnt agree 
with my initial thoughts, Ive proceeded to a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has made a number of representations in her complaint in relation to the issues she 
faced and about her sons health. I want to assure Miss H I have considered everything she 
has told us very carefully. I may not address every single point directly, but I have looked at 
everything she has raised in coming to my decision. If theres something Ive not mentioned, 
it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual representation made to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I have to decide what, if anything, John Lewis should do to resolve Miss Hs complaint. To 
do that, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA), The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018.
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account holder has 
an equal right to claim against the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, in Miss Hs case, section 75 of 
the CCA makes John Lewis responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct 
relationship between the debtor (Miss H) the creditor (John Lewis) and the supplier (T). 
Based on my initial review, Im satisfied that the necessary relationship exists, and that Miss 
Hs claim is within the financial limits set out in the CCA. 
Ive also had regard to The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CCA). The CCA implies a term into 
consumer contracts that services should be carried out with reasonable care and skill. And 
under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018, by law, the organiser (in this case, T), is liable for such breaches of contract by the suppliers of the 
accommodation, flights and certain other tourist services. This liability is confirmed by T in 
paragraph 23 of their terms and conditions. Ive thought about this, along with all of the 
information provided by both Miss H and John Lewis, in considering whether there has been 
a breach of contract by T and what the appropriate remedy is. My thoughts are:
Room 1
Miss H has said this room wasnt suitable for her and her son as it had a double bed, rather 
than two single beds which is what she wanted.
Ive had a look at the booking confirmation which was sent to Miss H by T after making the 
booking. And I can see the room is described on this as a double side sea view. I note Miss 
H says when she made the booking with the travel agent, she made her needs clear to the 
advisor at the time  Miss H says one of the things she asked for was two separate beds for 
her and her son.
I understand what Miss H has told us and I appreciate there may have been an issue with 
the booking. But I can see from the booking confirmation, it describes the room as a double. 
So, Im not quite persuaded that there has been a breach of contract in relation to this room.
But even if I thought there was a breach of contract, from what Miss H has told us, the hotel 
gave them a different room to stay in as soon as she complained to them. The issue seems 
to have been remedied and so I wouldnt ask John Lewis to do anything further here.
Room 2 
Miss H says after six days of staying in this room, she realised the bed bases were mouldy. 
Miss H also says the room was saturated with insects and the beds had bed bugs. Miss H 
has also told us that at the time, the hotel staff told her the bed had to be destroyed due to 
the poor quality. Miss H has provided photo evidence of the mouldy bed base and the dirty 
bed sheets. John Lewis say the photos dont clearly show dirt and could be down to the base 
material being worn away.
 
I think the photographs Ive seen clearly show the bed base was dirty and I can also see 
there were dirty marks on the bed sheets. Miss H has been consistent in telling us there 
were bed bugs and other insects in this room. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to stay in a room in these conditions, at a hotel of this rating and price.
When I take into consideration the price Miss H paid and what was said about the hotel in 
advance and how it was described, Im not satisfied the service was of the requisite 
standard. So, I think there has been a breach of contract here.
 
I note Miss H has told us the room wasnt suitable because of where it was situated. I cant 
see that Miss H complained about this at the time. But in any event, Ive already found there 
was a breach of contract in relation to this room.
Room 3
As a result of room two not being of the requisite standard, the hotel moved Miss H and her 
son to an alternative room for the remainder of their stay. Both Miss H and John Lewis have 
told us this room was an upgrade to the room Miss H had originally paid for. Miss H has sent 
us photos to show there were scratches and marks in the jacuzzi bath and also dirt and dried 
paint in the tracks of the balcony door frame.
However, having looked at the pictures Im not persuaded the scratches in the jacuzzi bath 
and the dried paint in the tracks of the patio door frame amount to a breach of contract. I note Miss H has referred to dirty floors and a dirty shower in this room. However, I havent 
seen evidence of this. I can only base my investigation on the information Ive been provided 
with.
Other considerations
Miss H has said the food was often undercooked and that the entertainment wasnt suitable 
for her and her son. I acknowledge Miss Hs view that this was the case, but the quality of 
the entertainment and food is a matter of subjective and individual opinion. Although I accept 
if it was undercooked that might be different, but Ive not seen any evidence to show that 
was the case. So, while the food and entertainment may not have met her expectations, it 
doesnt mean there has been a breach of contract. Even though I can appreciate these 
aspects clearly disappointed Miss H and her son, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
show theres been a breach of contract here.
I acknowledge Miss H has told us about her son being ill on holiday  Miss H mentioned he 
had breathing difficulties and an ear infection. Miss H also told us that her sons health 
deteriorated after the holiday. Im sorry to hear this. However, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that the illness Miss Hs son suffered during and after the holiday was caused 
by the breach Ive outlined above.
 
Its clear that Miss Hs holiday didnt meet her expectations  in particular the condition of the 
rooms, food and hotel entertainment. And I appreciate Miss H was disappointed with the 
quality of the holiday, especially as she says it was supposed to be a relaxing break away for 
her and her son. Based on all the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the service provided by 
the hotel wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill, but only to the extent that I have 
set out above in relation to Room 2. 
Putting things right
Its clear to me that the main issue Miss H had with the holiday was the impact it had on her 
sons health. But as Ive explained, Im not persuaded that flowed from the breach of 
contract. Ultimately, Miss H had the holiday and it wasnt until six days later that Miss H 
noticed the mouldy bed bases in the second room. But I accept this would have detracted 
from the overall enjoyment and that there was a difference in what she paid for and what she 
got. 
 
Given the issues Miss H encountered and what I can fairly hold John Lewis liable for I 
consider the amount John Lewis initially offered to refund Miss H of 25% of the overall cost 
of the holiday as a fair remedy here for what has gone wrong. I do not think Miss H should 
be awarded the additional £250 in compensation that she seeks. 
However, John Lewis have agreed, as a goodwill gesture following the investigators view, to 
pay around 40% of the total cost of the holiday - £1,154.24. John Lewis have confirmed this 
offer is still available to Miss H so Ill leave it to her to contact John Lewis if she wishes to 
accept this instead.
Other compensation awarded by John Lewis
I note John Lewis credited Miss Hs account with £50 for delaying her section 75 claim and 
they also added 1000 loyalty points to her account in recognition of this. I can see from John 
Lewis internal notes Miss H was caused some inconvenience especially as they were 
asking for information Miss H had already provided. Having thought about the inconvenience 
caused, I think John Lewis have fairly compensated Miss H for this. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.John Lewis also credited Miss Hs account with £70 as compensation for blocking her credit 
card in error. I can imagine this wouldve been worrying for Miss H but I think the 
compensation is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited should pay Miss H 25% of the overall holiday cost.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman