DRN-3661127
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy a claim made under her building guarantee has been declined by 
Guarantee Protection Insurance (GPI).
What happened
In 2012 Mrs O purchased a property which came with a building warranty to cover structural 
problems with the property for ten years. However, the insurer of that policy excluded loss or 
damage attributable to the finished external ground level being near to the damp proof 
course. 
As this was excluded from the building warranty, the developer arranged for damp proof 
works to be completed. They also provided a separate building guarantee to cover the damp 
proof course installation, underwritten by GPI.
Mrs O was looking to sell her property. A survey was completed, and this determined there 
was a penetrating damp issue when there was heavy rain, and recommended additional 
drainage be installed.
Subsequently Mrs O arranged for drainage works to be completed and made a claim to GPI 
for reimbursement of the cost of the works.
Following correspondence between GPI and Mrs O, GPI declined the claim. They said the 
issue was being caused by penetrating rather than rising damp, and there was no 
evidence the original damp proof course had failed. As Mrs O remained unhappy, she 
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said the evidence 
didnt demonstrate an issue with the damp proof course installation or rising damp, which is 
what the policy covered. Instead he said it was penetrating damp and a drainage issue, and 
the repair works completed supported that conclusion. So, he said GPI hadnt acted unfairly 
by declining the claim.
Mrs O didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Os certificate of insurance with GPI explains that the policy covers:
Rising Damp Control
The terms of the cover then go on to say the policy covers:
The Insurer will in consideration of payment of the premium indemnify the Insured
against the reasonable costs of further remedial treatment falling within the scope of 
and subject to the terms and conditions and exclusions of the Long Term Guarantee 
and of this Master Policy if the Service Organisation has ceased to trade and is 
unable to discharge its obligations under the Long Term Guarantee and which are 
notified to the Insurer within the Period of Insurance relating to any:
2) recurrence of Rising Damp in any of the walls in which the installation of chemical 
or physical damp-proof course or approved electro-osmotic system for the cure or 
prevention of such damp was provided; 
So, the policy covers rising damp control as outlined on the certificate and the terms explain 
it covers remedial treatment if rising damp reoccurs to areas which have been previously 
treated to prevent this.
A survey was carried out when Mrs O was looking to sell the property. This determined there 
was penetrating damp and the patio and paths were too high in relation to the damp proof 
course. It then went on to say that during heavy rainfall, with the blocked gutters, damp has 
been bridging the damp proof course. They said either the ground levels should be reduced, 
or comprehensive drainage should be installed to stop rainwater bridging the damp proof 
course. Mrs O subsequently paid to have works carried out which consisted of additional 
drainage being installed.
As Ive outlined, the policy covers Rising Damp Control. However, the survey didnt conclude 
that there was rising damp due to a failure with the existing damp proof course installation  
which is what the policy covers. Instead it concluded the damp proof course was being 
bridged and there was penetrating damp. 
The works which Mrs O then had carried out didnt include any works to the damp proof 
course previously installed, instead this consisted of drainage works, which supports that the 
problem wasnt with the original damp proofing works or rising damp  which is what the 
policy terms cover.
Mrs O has said that rising damp and penetrating damp are a version of the same thing. 
However, rising damp is defined in the terms of the insurance policy as:
Rising Damp means water from the ground rising into walls above ground level by 
means of capillary action
But thats not been concluded what has happened here. Instead, damp is bridging the damp 
proof course and penetrating above, rather than a fault with the damp proof course that was 
installed, or consequential damp rising from the ground upwards. And the policy covers 
failure of the original damp proof installation works and rising damp, not damp penetration 
from above which is unrelated to those original works.
With this in mind, I dont think GPI have acted unreasonably in declining the claim, so Im not 
going to direct them to reimburse the costs Mrs O has incurred in installing drainage at her 
property.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman