DRN-1054944
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1992. Ms C and Ms S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham 
Midshires, mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms C and Ms Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much information available about the sale. But, due to the amount of time 
that has passed, I dont think this is unreasonable.
Ms C and Ms S initially said they were given the impression they had to take the PPI, but 
they didnt give us much detail on what made them think this. Theyve since said they were 
explicitly told they had to take the PPI. Theyve also said they only found out the PPI was 
optional in 2014.
Birmingham Midshires hasnt been able to send us any paperwork from Ms C and Ms Ss 
mortgage application, or anything else from the time showing they chose to take the PPI.
If Ms C and Ms S only found out the policy was optional in 2014, I think it would be 
reasonable to have expected them to raise this issue sooner. And, due to the slight 
inconsistencies in what Ms C and Ms S have said and the limited information available, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Birmingham Midshires made them think 
they had to have the PPI. So I think its more likely it made it clear to them that they had a 
choice about the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Birmingham Midshires recommended the PPI to Ms C and Ms S, so it had to check that it 
was right for them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example, Ms C and Ms S dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than theyve 
told us either of them wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant they 
didnt need to rely on their savings to make their mortgage repayments if they werent 
earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Birmingham Midshires needed to give Ms C and 
Ms S clear information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Ms C and 
Ms Ss property couldve been at risk if theyd failed to make their repayments. So I think 
they couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I 
think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for Ms C and Ms S if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Ms C and Ms S off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman