DRN-3600511
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr L explained that he was the victim of a phone theft and over the next few days his HSBC
account was used to transfer his funds to an account that he didnt recognise. Mr L reported
the theft of his phone to the police, his mobile phone provider and cancelled Apple Pay for
two of his other banking accounts. Mr L didnt contact HSBC until he received notification
from them about his account balance, which was several days after the loss of his phone.
Mr L then told HSBC about the loss of his phone and that he was using it at the time it was
taken, he also thought he was logged into his HSBC mobile banking app at the time. HSBC
later said that there were no records of Mr L using his online banking that day. Mr L sought a
refund from HSBC, but they declined because they couldnt see how a thief could access the
online banking because they would need to know the private security details for the online
banking app.
Mr L complained to HSBC about the lack of a refund and was also unhappy at the time it
took them to deal with his complaint. He was also told that hed receive a refund by HSBC
which they later said was a mistake. HSBCs final answer to Mr L was to decline him a
refund for the disputed transactions, but they recognised hed been misled when he was told
hed receive a refund and paid £30 to his account as compensation.
Mr L remained unhappy with how HSBC had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Mr L confirmed in a
call with the investigator that he had biometric access set up on his online banking app and
didnt have any of his banking login details recorded on his phone. Mr L said he used similar
passwords for his accounts and the criminals may have seen him entering them. Mr L also
confirmed that he didnt record any other banking accounts login details on his phone. He
was unable to offer an explanation about how his account was accessed but reported that
another of his accounts (with a different payment provider) had had multiple attempts to
access it without success.
HSBC provided details of how the payments were made and a record of access to Mr Ls
mobile banking app from his device (mobile phone). HSBC explained that if Mr L had
recorded his banking logon details on his phone then this was a breach of their terms and
grossly negligent.
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought that because there was no point of
compromise for how the thieves obtained the security details to access the banking app, it
was likely Mr L who had authorised the payments. She thought that the pattern of fraudulent
payments was unusual, and that Mr L hadnt acted to protect his account when he knew his
phone had been taken. It was thought that biometric identification had been used to access
the banking app.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and was certain that biometrics couldnt have been used.
Mr L then suggested that he may have recorded his banking logon details on his phone. He
was also concerned that HSBC had blocked some payments but not others.
Mr L asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two principal considerations related to this complaint. One is whether the evidence
shows it was Mr L who authorised the transactions or not. Secondly whether by delaying his
notice to HSBC about the loss of his phone  Mr L has breached his terms, denying HSBC
the opportunity to protect his funds. Ill also deal with the assertion that recording banking
logon details on the phone was grossly negligent.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017
(PSRs). The basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr L liable for the disputed payments if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr L authorised the
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the internet banking app conclusively
proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Ls account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr L. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr L responsible for the disputed
transactions or not.
When Mr L reported the loss of his phone to HSBC, he thought he was logged on to his
banking app. HSBC showed that Mr L hadnt logged on that day, so its reasonable to
conclude here that when Mr Ls phone was taken, the banking app wasnt open and would
have required either biometric or security information to open it. HSBCs audit data doesnt
specify which one of these it was that accessed the app, but reviewing Mr Ls comments, I
dont think its likely that it was done via biometrics because hed already reported the phone
stolen before the banking app was opened. When Mr L first spoke to our investigator, he
said that he hadnt recorded his logon details on his phone and went on to say that he hadnt
recorded any of his other logon details for his different banking apps. So, its difficult to see
how a thief could determine the correct security details known only to Mr L to open the
banking app.
Mr L later said he may have recorded those details on the phone, which would explain how it
was accessed. Its apparent that Mr Ls recollection has changed from when he first reported
it, so Ive also thought about the timings of the outgoing disputed transactions. Ordinarily, a
thief wouldnt know when a bank account was to be blocked following the theft of a phone
but would anticipate it would happen quite quickly. Here that wasnt evident in the manner of
the payments. The first one didnt take place until the following day and then others were
made two days later.
Whilst I wouldnt assess a complaint purely based on what a thief would typically do, it doesform part of my considerations and the spacing out of the payments is not how wed normally
see such payments made. Often, the account is emptied as soon as possible to try and beat
the banks actions in blocking the account. So, even if I was to accept that Mr L had written
his security details on his phone, the disputed transactions dont fit a typical pattern of a
stolen device.
I currently think its implausible to conclude they werent authorised without stronger
evidence to the contrary. That means I think its more likely than not that Mr L carried out
these transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did so.
Gross Negligence
HSBC have stated that recording the login details on a phone is grossly negligent. This is a
high bar and without understanding more about what was recorded and in what manner, its
not possible to determine if it was grossly negligent. The situation here is that Mr L had his
phone taken from him, so ordinarily the security of the phone may well be enough to protect
the banking details. But, its not clear if those details were recorded or in what format, so I
dont think that HSBC can rely on gross negligence here.
Notification to HSBC
The PSRs explain that:
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments and personalised
security credentials
72.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its
issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment
instrument
Here the payment instrument relates to the banking app and any security information related
to it. HSBCs terms also describe these obligations on the account user.
When Mr Ls phone was stolen he notified the police and two of his other payment providers
to cancel his Apple Pay from his phone. He didnt contact HSBC until they informed him that
a direct debit had failed due to the level of funds in his account which was about four days
later. By this time the account had almost been emptied. I asked Mr L about why he hadnt
contacted HSBC sooner and he said:
The overarching point is the fact I blocked and let my phone provider and the police know
with 30 minutes of the device being taken, I also pressumed my device was locked and
blocked within this fast time period including my Apple Pay deactivation within 24 hours also
offering some relief . Which also meant I believed nothing was accessible and my security
would prevail. 
Mr Ls previous explanation was that his phone was unlocked when it was stolen, not locked
and blocked. Its apparent that Mr L was concerned about his finances because he notified
two other banks about his Apple Pay shortly after his phone was stolen. But, I dont
understand why he didnt contact HSBC straight away. From his testimony  he believed he
was logged in to his HSBC account when it was stolen  so I would have thought one of his
priority calls would be to notify HSBC that his phone had been stolen with his banking app
open.That didnt happen here and over the next few days his funds were moved out of his
account. If Mr L had notified HSBC about the loss of his phone at the same time he notified
the other businesses, which the terms of his account require him to do so, then the likelihood
is that HSBC would have blocked access to his account and prevented the loss of his funds.
By not advising HSBC  he prevented them from protecting his account. So, even if I
received evidence that the disputed transactions werent authorised by Mr L, Im currently
minded not to not uphold his complaint because he failed to act to prevent his own losses,
so I dont think it would be fair to expect HSBC to refund Mr L in these circumstances.
Blocked transactions
Mr L questioned what had happened to payments that were blocked on his account. HSBC
explained that their system identified transactions and they sent a fraud text to his phone.
There was no answer to the text, so the payments were stopped. The other disputed
transactions didnt trigger their security systems, which is why they were allowed to proceed.
As they were authenticated from the registered device and HSBC werent aware that it had
been stolen, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with the payments.
Customer Service
Its apparent from Mr Ls testimony that he was frustrated by the information he was
receiving from HSBC. Mr L was later paid £30 into his account for the misinformation he
received about his claim. In the circumstances I think this was an appropriate amount for
HSBC to pay and I dont intend to ask them to do anything further.
I invited Mr L and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC didnt have anything further they wanted to 
add and Mr L commented that the delay in the disputed transactions was likely due to the 
criminals using technology to beat the banking password, which took until the next day to 
crack the code. Additional comments were received from Mr L which didnt add any new 
evidence to the complaint, although he stressed he wasnt responsible for the disputed 
transactions and was a victim of crime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen anything that would change the outcome of my provisional 
decision. Regarding Mr Ls comments about technology being used to crack the code to his 
banking app  even if I was to accept this is what happened, I wouldnt uphold the complaint 
based on Mr Ls delay in reporting the theft to the bank.
I understand Mr L believed his notice to the phone provider was sufficient to block his phone 
and protect his bank account, but they werent the ones who were providing his banking 
services, HSBC were. As Ive already mentioned, if HSBC had been notified of the loss of 
the device then Mr Ls funds would have been protected from that point onwards. Its 
unfortunate that he chose not to speak with them when hed already notified other banking 
providers about his theft, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances to require HSBC to refund the losses when there was clear opportunity to 
report the device stolen and block further use of the account.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman