DRN-1467184
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank Plc hasnt helped him set up a repayment plan for the debt 
he owes it.
What happened
Mr Bs account with TSB was closed in 2016 with about £1,300 owed. Mr B contacted TSB 
in August 2019 about setting up a repayment plan. TSB says it needs Mr B to send income 
and expenditure and medical evidence so it can assess whats affordable and how to help 
him. 
Mr B says TSB made it difficult for him to update his address as hes been unable to do this 
by visiting a branch. Mr B says TSB will only send documents to his old address, despite 
knowing hes no longer there.
TSB said there had been some problems with its service. It offered compensation of £50 for 
Mr Bs upset and £18 towards his phone calls
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt in 
anyones interests for TSB to send correspondence to an address which Mr B says he no 
longer lives at. He said it must be possible for TSB to find another way to update Mr Bs 
address. And there was no reason it couldnt send some documents  such as a blank 
income and expenditure form  to Mr Bs new address. He said TSB needed to make 
reasonable adjustments for Mr Bs health and circumstances.
Our investigator said TSB should send a blank income and expenditure form to Mr Bs new 
address and pay £200 compensation (in total) for the trouble and upset caused.
TSB sent documentation to Mr B, saying this was as one-off gesture of goodwill. It didnt 
agree to pay £200 compensation. It said its request for Mr B to update his address wasnt 
unreasonable. TSB said additional compensation wasnt reasonable and wouldnt resolve 
matters: It said Mr B needed to provide income and expenditure details and medical 
information before it can consider what support it can put in place and what options are 
available for Mr B regarding his debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs account was closed in 2016. When he contacted TSB in mid 2019 he told it hed 
changed address.
I understand that TSB needs to ensure its records, such as a customers address, are 
correct. I think its reasonable for it to have processes to ensure a change of address request 
was made by the customer and its records are correctly updated.Here, TSB was aware of Mr Bs mental health conditions. So it needed to make reasonable 
adjustments. Mr B told TSB hed have difficulty visiting a branch. I think it could have offered 
other ways to update his address, as it has now done. So Mr B can now update his address 
by visiting his branch or by contacting TSBs telephone banking team and going through its 
security process.
TSB needs information from Mr B so that it can decide what options are available and 
affordable for repayment of Mr Bs outstanding debt. TSB did arrange to send some 
correspondence to Mr Bs new address. It said it couldnt send other, more sensitive, 
correspondence to Mr Bs new address until this had been changed on its system. 
I think its reasonable for TSB to categorise some documents or correspondence as 
sensitive. I can see that theres some information that neither party would want to risk going 
astray. But here, I think TSB needed to consider what reasonable adjustments it could make 
to help Mr B. TSB could have considered whether a blank income and expenditure form was 
sufficiently sensitive that it couldnt risk sending it to the address Mr B said he lived at. TSB 
has confirmed that it has sent the income and expenditure form to Mr Bs current address.
I appreciate that its more difficult for TSB to provide the support Mr B needs until it receives 
the information its asked for and his address is updated. TSB has arranged for its tailored 
support team to assist Mr B. I hope that it will provide assistance and support to Mr B so that 
he can provide the information and documents needed to update his address and agree a 
suitable repayment plan for the debt. 
Putting things right
Our rules say I can award fair compensation that reflects the impact on a customer. TSB 
was aware of Mr Bs mental health conditions. It should have considered making reasonable 
adjustments to its usual process to make it easier for Mr B to provide the information it 
needed. This would have reduced the upset and anxiety caused to Mr B. I think the 
compensation should reflect this. I think, in the circumstances, £200 (in total) is fair and 
reasonable. I should explain that the £200 is a total amount. So if TSB has already paid the 
£68 it offered before the complaint came to this service, it can deduct this from the £200. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank Plc to pay £200 (in total) to 
Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman