DRN-3942609
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc are asking him to reapply for a loan he has already 
been accepted for.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a loan with Santander, but they did not send him a code to release 
the funds, so he contacted them. A new code was sent to him, but the loan offer had 
expired, so he could not access the funds he had been approved for. Mr C says that he was 
told he needed to re-apply for the loan and they would need to conduct another credit check, 
so his credit score would be negatively affected if his credit file showed two searches by 
Santander. He tried to contact Santander several times, but he had a lack of response from 
them. Mr C made a complaint to Santander. He entered an unarranged overdraft while 
waiting for the loan funds.
Santander partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. They said a letter is sent containing a 12-digit 
code, which should arrive within two working days and he would need to use this code to 
release his funds. As they held Mr Cs correct address and there were no mail blocks 
preventing mail from being sent to him, they said they made no error. They said although Mr 
C had requested a new code via their website, there was no guarantee that this would arrive 
in time before his application expired. Santander said if this happened then he would need to 
apply for the loan again over the telephone, however, there is no guarantee he would be 
approved or that the terms would stay the same. Santander agreed to refund Mr C £159 to 
enable him to leave the unarranged overdraft due to the lack of responses he had. Mr C 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said he had reached out to Santander 
via social media to ask why the funds hadnt been received and they responded and 
provided Mr C with a link to their website giving further information about the loan code and 
how it was needed to have the funds released. As Mr C had not received a loan code he 
raised the issue with Santander, but due to delays in responding to him, this impacted the 
time remaining before the application would expire. She said that it wasnt fair to hold 
Santander responsible for him not receiving the first code. 
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said he didnt find it fair that Santander could register a credit check on 
someones credit file, approve them for a loan, then due to a delay in receiving a code make 
them reapply and potentially not approve them for a loan. He said he is not in a financial 
position to reapply for the loan as this would risk negatively affecting his credit score. He 
said the minimum he would accept would be for Santander to honour the original loan 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their loan processing procedures including when to send out codes to complete a loan 
application or when they should honour an original loan. It would be the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Santander to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Santander have confirmed that when Mr C was accepted for the loan he was sent an e-
agreement. They have told us that this contained a link for him to sign the agreement on 
Santanders website and through here is where Mr C would have needed to enter the loan 
code he was sent in the post. Santander have provided an audit that they sent this email on 
22 September 2022 at 15:23pm. Mr C is shown as downloading the agreement on 26 
September at 10:07am.
Santander have sent us a screenshot of their website where their customers complete their 
loan application. On the screenshot it shows that step two of the process is to log in and sign 
the agreement and step three would be to release his funds and he would receive a code 
from them. It says you should receive a code from us in the post. Log in again and enter the 
code. This will release your loan funds into the account you chose when you applied.
Santander also sent us a copy of the agreement that Mr C electronically signed. This 
agreement states Your loan will be paid into your nominated bank account by 3pm the next 
working day after your agreement is executed and your code to release the funds accepted. 
So Im satisfied that it should have been clear to Mr C that he needed a code to complete his 
application. I can see Santander sent him a letter on 22 September 2022 also at 15:23pm - 
at the same time they sent him the email. And I can see Santander had the same address as 
hes given to our service  the address where he received his response to his complaint. So 
Im satisfied that this was sent to his registered address and therefore I cant hold Santander 
responsible for any issues with the postal system. 
When Mr C reached out to Santander through social media, they also gave him a link to 
Santanders website. This link contained the section what happens when I apply? and this 
mentions the loan code and a link to release his loan funds. The link has a section which 
says No code? and then it gives him instructions on how to get a replacement code sent 
out. So it does appear that Mr C could have taken action to get a new code earlier than 
when he did on 18 October 2022 at 16:20pm when the audit shows he did request a new 
code. I say this based on the information provided on his loan agreement and the website 
link provided to him. So I cant agree that they have made an error in their process here. 
They sent out a code originally for him and sent out another one when he asked for it, but 
unfortunately the timeframe to complete his application had expired prior to him being able to 
enter the second code. 
Santander have certain obligations they need to meet and processes they follow when 
reporting to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). They need to report accurate information. 
So as Mr C had made an application, they would be expected to report this and this would 
be reflected on his credit file. When the application expired, if Mr C were to apply for a loan 
again, they would also need to report that they have conducted a search of his credit file. 
Based on the information they now see, this could lead to a different outcome to the original 
application, but Im not persuaded that this would be unreasonable. So I wont be asking 
Santander to honour the original loan agreement.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr C has on what he believes to be the unfairness of 
this, but Santander would be reporting factual information to the CRAs. Mr Cs 
circumstances may have changed from when he was first accepted for the loan to the time 
if/when he would apply for the loan again. Santander would need to ensure any borrowing 
was affordable for Mr C, so I would not expect them to keep his application open indefinitely and their process is to abandon an application if the funds have not been released within 28 
days. Santander confirmed that the email they sent to Mr C accepting his application also 
referred to the 28 day time limit, so as the code wasnt entered in this timeframe, his 
application expired and was automatically abandoned. 
While I wont be asking Santander to honour the original agreement, I must acknowledge 
that they did let Mr C down with a lack of communication. He sent them several messages 
about his application and there was a delay in responding to him. It was clear that Mr C was 
getting distressed by the lack of responses, so they could have done more here. So it is only 
fair that Santander compensate Mr C for this. Santander did credit £159 to his account to 
help him get out of an unarranged overdraft as a result of this. Im satisfied that this amount 
of compensation is fair. I say this as if Santander had not upheld Mr Cs complaint, the 
compensation they did award him is slightly higher than the amount of compensation I would 
have felt was reasonable for the impact of the lack of responses to him. So Im satisfied that 
this amount of compensation is fair. So it follows I dont require Santander to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman