DRN-1320262
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National at the time, mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001, Mr B took out a regular premium MPPI policy. The policy cost £25.06 a month and 
gave him £415 of cover - for up to twelve months - if he was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the MPPI had been mis-sold. Mr B disagreed with the
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. I know this will be disappointing for Mr B 
but, having done so, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr B says he never asked for the MPPI policy. And he says he was unaware that the policy 
had been set up, or that he was paying a monthly premium for it.
This sale took place a long time ago. So, perhaps, its not that surprising that not all the
documentation likely to have been completed at the time is still available. Businesses arent 
required to keep these sorts of records for such lengthy periods. In these circumstances, I 
need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information 
available to me.
Santander says this sale took place over the phone. And although Mr B has questioned 
whether this was the case, Ive seen a copy of Santanders computer records which seem to 
confirm that this was how the policy was sold to him. 
Mr B has also questioned how the MPPI could have been set up in 2001 to protect a 
mortgage which he says was only taken out in 2002. And hes provided a copy of a letter 
from Santander that appears to show that his mortgage did only start in 2002. But Santander 
says the date given in the letter it sent to Mr B was incorrect. And its provided evidence 
which Im satisfied does show that the mortgage was taken out in 1996.
There isnt a copy of Mr Bs MPPI application form available, But I think one would need to 
have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And from seeing such 
application forms for other consumers from around this time, I think Santander made it clear 
to Mr B that the policy was optional. The MPPI was also opened some years after the start of 
the mortgage it was protecting, so I think this would also have meant that Mr B would have 
known he didnt need to take it to get his loan.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said about not knowing the MPPI had been sold 
to him. But Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter which was sent to Mr B in 2001 which 
thanks him for choosing the policy. And this letter also contains details of the direct debit 
payments hed separately authorised to be made from his account to pay the monthly 
premiums for his policy. 
So, from the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr B did actively choose to take the MPPI policy, 
knowing he could choose not to. But I can understand why he may not be able to recall this 
now.
Santander says that this would have been an advised sale, where it recommended the MPPI 
policy to Mr B. And Ive taken this to be the case because this means that Santander had to 
ensure that it was suitable for him. I cant now know the steps Santander took to ensure that 
the policy was suitable. But from what I know of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I cant see 
any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr B appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. Mr B says he was self-employed at the time, but I dont think 
this would have prevented him from being able to claim on the policy if he wasnt able to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Mr B doesnt appear to have had much in the way of other means to pay his mortgage if 
he wasnt able to work. The policy would have given him cover for up to twelve months 
and in addition to any other means he did have at the time. And a mortgage is a big 
financial commitment  where ones home is potentially at risk if the loan repayments 
cant be met. So I think Mr B would have valued the extra security which the policy gave 
him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met his needs.
Santander also needed to give Mr B enough information for him to decide if he
wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave Mr B could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for him, I dont think that better information would have changed his mind about 
taking it. I still think Mr B would have thought the policy gave him useful benefits at an 
affordable cost. 
So I dont think that Mr B has lost out by anything that Santander may have done wrong 
when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about all the reasons Mr B has given for still thinking that the MPPI 
policy was mis-sold to him by Santander.  But this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman