DRN-4423713
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor warranty provider Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited because it has declined his claim made when he identified an issue with his 
cars differential.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr S heard a grinding noise whilst driving his car. He felt it was rapidly 
getting worse and needed attention. He took the car to his garage, which determined a 
bearing failure had occurred within the rear differential. Mr S asked the garage to contact 
Red Sands as he felt this was likely something he could claim on his warranty. 
Mr S, noting the warranty  whilst a car is being repaired  also offers cover for some hire 
costs incurred by the warranty holder, hired a car. This to keep himself mobile whist his was 
being repaired.
Red Sands asked the garage for details about the failure. Ultimately Red Sands felt the rear 
differential was suffering from wear and tear  which is not something covered by the policy. 
Mr S was unhappy with that answer. He complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator felt Red Sands had unfairly relied upon a wear and tear argument to decline 
the claim. He felt it should pay Mr Ss repair costs, reimburse his costs for hire and pay him 
£150 compensation.
Mr S was happy with the outcome. Red Sands felt the damage under consideration was 
consistent with normal wear and tear. So it wasnt in agreement with our Investigators view 
that it had acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining the claim. The complaint was 
referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim. So I issued a 
provisional decision to share my views with both parties. My provisional findings were:
The policy
In respect of hire the warranty says Red Sands will pay up to £30 a day for seven days 
towards the cost of a replacement vehicle. But the warranty also stipulates that: You can 
only have a replacement vehicle if the Vehicle is being repaired under the Policy. So Red 
Sands would only be liable to Mr S for any car hire costs if his repair claim was successful.
Turning to the repair the warranty says:
WHAT IS COVERED
Any mechanical breakdown..Mechanical breakdown is the failure of a part, causing it
to suddenly stop working, for a reason other than wear and tear, deterioration or 
negligence.
The term breakdown might suggest the car or a part of it would need to have lost all 
function. But our approach is to view a breakdown as occurring when a part stops 
functioning as it should. And I note that Red Sands did not rely on a loss of function 
argument to decline liability. The argument has focused on wear and tear. In short if Red 
Sands has reasonably shown that the differential of Mr Ss car likely suffered wear and tear, 
thereby reaching the end of its normal/usually expected life, the loss would fall outside of the 
cover offered by the policy.
Wear and tear
The garage told Red Sands it had stripped the differential down and found multiple points of 
damage. Red Sands asked the garage for its view on what had caused that. The garage 
said the bearing had failed which had caused pitting and further damage to occur. 
I can see that Red Sands considered the garages view. But also asked it for photo and 
video evidence of the damaged parts. From a review of Red Sands notes it seems that the 
garage didnt really explain a cause of the failure which had caused the damage Red Sands 
was being asked to cover. I note that having seen images depicting the damage, Red Sands 
felt this was likely wear and tear  that nothing sudden had happened.
Ive viewed the damage. I can see pitting and scoring across multiple parts. I note Red 
Sands explanation that metal parts wear naturally and, as they do pieces of debris remain in 
the system, causing damage over time as they come in contact with the parts of the 
differential, sometimes rubbing against parts which are moving, with further damage being 
caused. Until the damage starts to affect the function of the part. In very general terms that 
makes logical sense and I can see that this type of mode of damage would cause the type of 
damage depicted in the images of the differential from Mr Ss car. I can also see that, 
overtime, that type of damage would case the part to reach the end of its normal life.
I know Mr S feels this is something which happened suddenly. I accept that he suddenly 
started to hear a concerning noise. But that noise was just a symptom of the damage within. 
I think its fair to say that a noise like this would only become apparent at the stage when a 
certain, perhaps critical, amount of wear/damage had been caused. It would be unfair to say 
that the absence of a noise meant the system had not been affected by wear.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the differential not being given a maintenance or 
replacement programme by manufacturers  which he thinks means its not expected to 
suffer wear. But I think the manufacturer does set out some repair and maintenance detail 
which impacts the differential. The differential is made up of many moving metal parts and 
they are all kept mobile and protected (to a certain extent) from contact with each other by 
engine oil. And the servicing programme for Mr Ss car does dictate that every so often 
(years or mileage whichever marker is reached first), the engine oil is changed. This will help 
to protect the parts long term. But it still doesnt mean they wont suffer wear at all. 
I appreciate that Mr S believes its most likely that the metal in the bearing failed due to some 
inherent defect. That this caused pieces to come away, when they otherwise wouldnt have, 
and then cause the damage seen throughout the differential. But Ive not seen any expert 
analysis to support this theory. Certainly, in light of the fact that the pitting and scoring looks 
like that one would logically associate with wear and tear damage, for me to be persuaded 
otherwise, I think an analysis of the metal, showing it was poor or otherwise compromised 
against similarly used differentials, would need to be seen. I say that also because the car 
itself has done over 100,000 miles  and if the metal in such a key moving part of the 
engine, was inherently flawed, Id have expected that to have become apparent earlier in the 
life of the car. 
Effectively, what I see here is that Red Sands thinks wear and tear has caused the damage, 
and Mr S contends it has not. Mr S has explained why he feels this is not wear and tear. And Red Sands has set out why it thinks it is. Ive given some analysis of those arguments 
above. On this occasion, particularly given the mileage of the car, the nature of the part in 
question and the images of damage Ive seen, I find Im most persuaded by Red Sands 
argument. Im satisfied that the differential has likely suffered wear and tear over time, such 
that its reasonable to say its likely reached the end of its normal working life. 
What all that means overall
With the policy limiting cover to breakdowns not caused by wear and tear, I think Red Sands 
decline of the claim for its repair, was fair and reasonable. With no successful repair claim, 
Mr Ss entitlement to any hire costs also reasonably falls away. And because Ive not found 
Red Sands failed Mr S in respect of its claim decision, there are no grounds for me to award 
compensation for any upset he was caused because of it.
Claim handling
I know Mr S thinks Red Sands took too long to make a decision. I can see that some detail 
was received from the garage just before Christmas and Red Sand then indicated it would 
not be accepting the claim. But it was then a few weeks before anything else happened. 
Once Mr S contacted it in January, to query the decision, Red Sands reviewed matters, and 
communicated its final claims decision, which would later become its final response on the 
complaint, within a few days. And Ive found that Red Sands decision, as initially indicated 
before Christmas, was fair and reasonable.
I note that in Red Sands final response issued in February 2022, it apologised for its delay 
in handling the claim. I think that was reasonable in this instance and dont intend to make it 
do anything more regarding any delay.
Red Sands said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr S did not reply to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that my provisional decision was likely upsetting for Mr S. That is regrettable. 
And whilst I havent received any objection from him to my findings, I have reviewed 
everything. Having done so Im satisfied with my provisional findings initially issued. I can 
confirm they are now the findings of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman