DRN-3924205
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) is refusing to refund 
her the amount she lost as the result of a scam
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mrs R found an advertisement on TikTok with a business (X) stating she could 
earn an income working from home carrying out online tasks. X sent a link to Mrs R to a 
platform that looked like Ebay. 
Mrs R was required to carry out tasks so she could earn commission. After completing a free 
trial Mrs R was asked to send funds to X via the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Binance) so she could be assigned tasks. 
The opportunity appeared to be working well and showed Mrs R was making money. 
However, when Mrs R tried to withdraw some of her funds, she was unable to. X convinced 
Mrs R to send further funds to it for her funds to be released. After making several more 
payments to X her account was closed, and she was no longer able to contact X.
It was clear at this stage that Mrs R had fallen victim to a scam and she has not been able to 
recover any of the money she sent to X 
Mrs R made the following payments to X via Binance using her debit card during the time the 
scam took place:
1. 28 March 2022 - £125
2. 29 March 2022 - £1,500
3. 29 March 2022 - £1,050
4. 29 March 2022 - £125
5. 31 March 2022 - £3,000
6. 31 March 2022 - £5,000
7. 31 March 2022 - £5,000
8. 31 March 2022 - £4,600
9. 31 March 2022 - £2,900
10. 31 March 2022 - £620
11. 1 April 2022 - £ 5,000
12. 4 April 2022 - £3,100
13. 4 April 2022 - £2,300
Our Investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint but thought Halifaxs decision not to refund 
her was fair. So, he didnt ask Halifax to do anything more.
As Mrs R disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mrs R made in relation to this 
scam to Binance.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs R was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mrs R didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Binance). This is important because Halifax was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant she paid (Binance), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mrs Rs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mrs R paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Mrs R any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mrs R has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Binance, so the starting point 
here is that Mrs R is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mrs R was making.
On 29 March 2022 Mrs R called Halifax as it had stopped a payment she was attempting to 
make to Binance. Mrs R said she was making payments to buy Bitcoin and was asked 
specific questions about them. 
Mrs R was asked: 
how she heard about Binance and she said her husband had been using Binance and 
recommended it to her. 
Mrs R was also asked what she needed to buy Bitcoin for, and she said she was buying it on 
the app and keeping it for herself. 
Finally, Mrs R was asked if anyone had asked her to make the transactions, and she said 
they hadnt. 
Overall, the answers Mrs R gave Halifax were not correct and misled Halifax meaning it was 
unlikely to uncover the scam that was taking place. Mrs R was not buying Bitcoin to keep in her own name, she was buying the Bitcoin as requested by X to transfer to it to unlock tasks 
and make a profit.
The Halifax representative asked Mrs R to take her identification documents to her local 
Halifax branch so her card could be unblocked which she did. 
I cant be certain about exactly what questions Halifax asked Mrs R at the branch, but I think 
its likely they would have been like those asked over the phone the day before. I think its 
likely Mrs R would have given the same answers in branch as she did over the phone. 
Considering the above I think Halifaxs fraud prevention systems were triggered at a 
reasonable time resulting in a conversation between Halifax and Mrs R taking place, that 
would likely have uncovered the scam had Mrs R given accurate answers to the questions 
she was being asked. But Mrs R gave incorrect answers to the questions asked by Halifax 
meaning it was unable to discover that a scam was taking place.  
 
I dont think Halifax missed an opportunity to prevent the scam taking place, so I dont think it 
is responsible for any of the money Mrs R lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman