DRN-1806076
 
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited charged her fees and interest 
on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchase. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs W purchased a laptop on a BNPL agreement with Shop Direct, for 
just under £1,200. The full purchase price needed to be repaid by December 2019, 
otherwise Shop Direct would charge interest.
Mrs W made payments to the BNPL and she had an outstanding balance of £650 that 
needed to be paid by 13 December 2019. But she was unwell when the payment was due, 
and she wasnt able to make the payment until 16 December. Because of this Shop Direct 
charged her interest on the unpaid balance. And because Mrs W hadnt paid her November 
2019 bill on time, they also charged her a £12 late payment fee.
Mrs W has complained that Shop Direct charged her interest and fees. She doesnt think 
shes been treated sympathetically, and she feels Shop Directs actions were unfair. To put 
things right, shed like the interest charged to be removed.
Our investigator said Shop Direct had acted within the terms of the BNPL agreement. And 
she felt theyd acted reasonably when dealing with Mrs W called them about this. So she 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she was physically unable to make 
the payment on time, due to an unforeseeable illness, and she couldnt ask anyone to make 
the payment for her because of the security on her bank account. Because of this she feels 
that Shop Direct shouldve looked at her case sympathetically and given her the benefit of 
the doubt. So shes asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, I agree investigators findings on 
this complaint for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mrs W. Ive no doubt she intended to 
pay off the remaining BNPL balance on 13 December 2019. And it was unfortunate that 
circumstances meant she couldnt. But, for me to agree that Shop Direct should compensate 
Mrs W for this, Id need to be satisfied that the interest charged resulted directly from their 
error. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.Ive seen Mrs Ws Shop Direct statements, which show that she purchased the laptop on 20 
November 2018, on a 12-month BNPL agreement. This purchase was shown on all of her 
statements up to November 2019, and on each statement it said you can avoid the interest 
on these buy now pay later item(s)  by paying the balance by 13 Dec 2019. The 
statements also showed the estimated interest that would be charged, and this was updated 
with every payment Mrs W made.
Based on these statements, Mrs W wouldve been aware of what she needed to pay to clear 
her BNPL balance, when it needed to be paid by, and how much interest shed be charged if 
she didnt pay it.
The November 2019 statement also says that Mrs W needed to make a minimum payment 
of £45.55 by 13 December 2019. But, because she didnt make this payment on time, Shop 
Direct charged her a £12 late payment fee. This payment was in line with the terms of the 
account Mrs W agreed to, so Shop Direct did nothing wrong by charging this.
Its unfortunate that Mrs W was ill on 13 December 2019, and this meant she couldnt make 
a payment to Shop Direct on that day. But this was the last day that she couldve made the 
payment to Shop Direct  it wasnt the only day she couldve paid this. Mrs W couldve paid 
off the balance of the BNPL, and therefore also paid the minimum payment required by the 
November 2019 statement, at any point after the statement date  23 November.
Its not disputed that, when Mrs W phoned Shop Direct about the late payment, they treated 
her reasonably. But it was her choice to wait until the last day before making the payment, 
and I wouldnt expect Shop Direct to reduce or waive the BNPL interest because 
circumstances meant she couldnt make the payment on her chosen day. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman