DRN-2105059
The complaint
Mr C complains Lend Fair Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In June 2015 Mr C applied for, and was given a guarantor loan for £5,000, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £193 a month, and in 
total Mr C agreed to pay back just over £11,590 over the five years, once interest was 
added.
Mr C complains Lend Fair shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
He says that the lender should have seen from his credit file that that he was in financial 
difficulty, for example at the time of taking out the loan he was around £3,000 overdrawn on 
his bank account and near its limit. He says he also had other guarantor loans and his credit 
file would have shown he topped-up those loans, missed payments and had a county court 
judgment against him. He adds that he was employed on an agency basis with lengthy gaps 
between assignments and points outs that at the time of taking out the loan he was 63 years 
old.
Lend Fair says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Mr C did have enough 
disposable income to make the loan repayments. It says when Mr C applied for his loan by 
telephone, it carried out an income and expenditure assessment as part of its affordability 
checks. The assessment took account of his monthly income and also his monthly 
outgoings, including any other borrowings that he may have had. During the assessment Mr 
C told Lend Fair that he had a credit card but no other borrowings. Lend Fair also requested 
Mr C supplied his most recent payslip to confirm his salary.
Lend Fair explains that it does not carry out a credit check on the borrower, only the 
Guarantor. It did, however, carry out an AML check, which showed that Mr C had one 
county court judgement and it discussed this with him. Mr C told Lend Fair that the 
judgement was for a credit card that he held previously with his ex-wife.
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Lend Fair didnt agree so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. At the time of writing, Lend Fair has 
gone into voluntary liquidation. It has stopped taking on new business but must continue to 
meet the regulators standards in dealing with its customers, including complaint handling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, I 
agree with the outcome put forward by the investigator, for similar reasons. 
Under the relevant regulatory framework, Lend Fair was obliged to lend responsibly. This 
meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr C could afford to meet the repayments in 
a sustainable way over the relevant term. And so, the assessment of Mr Cs circumstances 
had to be borrower-focused  which means that, while Lend Fair wasnt prevented from 
assessing its own risk as a lender, it also had to assess the risk to Mr C. 
The circumstances in which its reasonable to conclude that a less detailed affordability 
assessment is reasonable and proportionate are more likely to be limited to applicants 
whose financial situation is stable and whose borrowing is relatively insignificant given their 
overall financial circumstances. But given Mr Cs wider financial circumstances  for 
example, the proximity of Mr Cs normal retirement age and the total cost of the loan over a 
term likely to extend into his retirement, I think the lending was significant for Mr C. 
Lend Fair says it completed an income and expenditure assessment on Mr C, which 
included verifying his declared income against a payslip. But given the likelihood of the loan 
term extending beyond Mr Cs retirement ,and the absence of pension contributions showing 
on the payslip, I would expect there to be some discussion around how he planned to 
sustain repayments should he retire before repaying the loan. Afterall, Lend Fair needed to 
assess Mr Cs ability to make repayments as they fell due over the life of the agreement. 
And Ive not seen Lend Fair attempted to validate Mr Cs declared outgoings in any way. 
Ive considered what Lend Fair has said about the affordability of the loan based on the 
checks it completed, but ultimately, I dont think Lend Fairs checks went far enough and I 
disagree they were proportionate in this instance. As Ive explained above it isnt enough for 
Lend Fair to just complete checks, it needs to engage with the information it is supplied by 
the applicant before deciding to lend. For example, its AML check showed 14 SHARE 
records (accounts reported a credit reference agency, either active or not) but Mr C only 
declared the one credit card account  so, I think Lend Fair ought to have explored this 
potential and significant inconsistency. Overall, I would expect Lend Fair to get a better 
understanding of Mr Cs financial circumstances before agreeing to lend to him. 
These further checks couldve included checking Mr Cs credit file or requesting his bank 
statements. Ive been provided with both Mr Cs credit file and bank statements. Having 
reviewed these, Im satisfied Mr C wouldnt have been able to afford this loan. Mr Cs credit 
file shows that this was his third guarantor loan application in as many months, having taken 
out a new £10,000 guarantor loan in April and extending an existing guarantor loan in May to 
£7,000. His credit file shows he was also repaying two credit cards, retail finance, an 
overdraft on his bank account and a hire purchase agreement. His existing monthly 
commitment  before adding the £193 new commitment to Lend Fair  stood at £1,460. That 
is more than half his take-home pay. 
In our experience, the higher a proportion of income that is committed to unsecured debt 
repayment, the higher the probability (and risk) of a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. 
And with 55% of his income committed to unsecured debt repayment, I think Mr C lacked the 
capacity to take on this additional commitment. It took the proportion of his income 
committed to unsecured debt repayment to 62%. I cant ignore that Mr Cs income was Page 
3 of 4 unlikely to remain stable over the term of the loan as he was employed on an agency 
basis, undertaking short-term assignments. And as Ive already mentioned, there was a distinct possibility that the loan term would extend into Mr Cs retirement.
The credit file shows that a judgement debt was entered against Mr C the month before he 
applied for this loan. I note that a judgement debt was showing on Lend Fairs AML check, 
but not the proximity to his application. Mr Cs bank statements show his account remained 
substantially overdrawn in the three months leading up to his application. Overall, I think Mr 
Cs circumstances paint the picture of someone who wasnt managing their finances well 
and unlikely to have been in a position to sustainably repay any additional borrowing. 
Im satisfied had Lend Fair conducted these checks it wouldve better understood Mr Cs 
financial situation. Had it done so, I think it wouldve realised Mr Cs financial situation was 
significantly worse than it thought, and that by lending further to him, Lend Fair was unfairly 
increasing his total indebtedness. 
Lend Fair has also said it relied on the information which Mr C provided, and its unfair for 
this service to not take this into account. Whilst it may have asked Mr C a direct question, it 
still had information at its disposal which showed there could be further issues. Lend Fair 
also believes Mr C, given his profession, ought to have understood he couldnt afford to 
repay the lending when he applied. I dont think whether Mr C understood or not negates the 
obligations on Lend Fair. 
There was an obligation at the time for Lend Fair to make sure it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks and in this instance that included, in my opinion, checking Mr Cs credit 
file as a minimum. As Ive said above, had it done so, it wouldve better understood Mr Cs 
financial situation before deciding to lend. So, on that basis, Im satisfied that the decision to 
lend to Mr C wasnt a fair one because he couldnt afford the loan. Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr C in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question. 
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr C 
was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr C back in the position he would be in if he 
hadnt been given the loan in the first place. 
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Lend Fair should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mr C made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr C 
has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mr C to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this loan. 
Page 4 of 4 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lend Fair to deduct tax from this interest. Lend Fair 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Lend Fair Limited should put 
things right for Mr C in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Zechariah Hemans
Ombudsman