DRN-2315970
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Premier Life account in August 2009. 
Mrs S says that the account was mis-sold because she was given the impression that she 
had to have the account to get a preferential interest rate on an overdraft. Mrs S also says 
she felt pressured into agreeing to the account.
Mrs S has further complained that Barclays changed her account without her knowledge in 
2015. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the Premier Life or the 
feature store packs that were later added to the account in 2015 were mis-sold. Mrs S 
disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the Premier Life account 
or the Tech, Home and Travel Plus packs were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Premier Life
Mrs S says that she was given the impression that she had to have the packaged account to 
get a preferential interest rate on an overdraft. However, the Premier Life account did 
provide an interest free overdraft on up to £1,000 of an arranged overdraft, with preferential 
interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than that amount. As such, I cant say that 
Mrs S was misled by Barclays  given that it provided the key benefit that she was told 
about.
Mrs S says that she was not presented with any other option and felt pressurised into 
agreeing to it. Whereas Barclays says that it wouldve discussed the available accounts with 
Mrs S, which included fee-free accounts. 
In our questionnaire Mrs S says that shed held fee-free accounts before this account, so I 
think she was aware that fee-free accounts generally existed. And Mrs S says she was given 
the impression that it would provide preferential interest rates on an overdraft. This suggests 
that the benefits of the account were discussed with Mrs S and she agreed to it because of 
what the account offered, rather than because Barclays pressured her into agreeing to 
something that she didnt really want.
Mrs S says that she didnt need the packaged account as she already had one with another 
bank at the time. However, just because Mrs S already had a packaged account doesnt 
necessarily mean that Barclays was wrong to have sold her this one. Afterall, Mrs S was free 
to downgrade her existing packaged account, if she wanted to get the benefits on her 
Barclays account (such as the overdraft benefit) without duplicating cover or cost. However, 
it wouldve been up to Mrs S to have downgraded her existing account. So I cant hold 
Barclays responsible if she never got round to doing this.
Based on the information that is available, it appears the account was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means Barclays didnt have to check if it was right for Mrs S, but it did have to 
provide Mrs S with the important information about the account, so that she could decide for 
herself if it was worth getting.
Mrs Ss own testimony clearly shows that the overdraft benefits were discussed with her 
during the sale. Barclays has also provided evidence that Mrs S claimed on the breakdown 
cover and registered and claimed on items under the mobile phone and gadget cover. This 
clearly shows that Mrs S was given at least some information about the account benefits and 
how to go about using them during the sale. 
I appreciate that Mrs S might not have been given all of the information about all of the 
account features during the sale. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had she been given 
even more information about it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think the Premier Life account was mis-sold.
Account changes in 2015
I understand that Barclays made changes to the Premier Life account and changed Mrs Ss 
account to a fee-free account with fee-paying Tech, Home and Travel Plus packs in late 
2015. Mrs S says these changes happened without her knowledge.
However Barclays was able to make these changes to the account, providing it gave 
sufficient notice to affected accountholders to give them enough time to consider their 
options and take action if necessary. 
In this case I can see Barclays first wrote to Mrs S in February 2015 to explain the changes 
that will be made to the account and why. Barclays then wrote to Mrs S in August to explain 
that her account will be changing in November 2015 and gave her the option to choose not 
to have the Tech, Home and Travel Plus packs if she no longer needed any of those 
insurance benefits going forwards. I cant see that Mrs S asked to opt out of the packs being 
added to her account.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mrs Ss account was changing from a 
Premier Life account to a fee-free current account with a Tech, Home and Travel Plus pack. 
And that it highlighted to Mrs S that she could opt out of having these packs if she wished to 
do so. I cant see that she contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I 
cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the 
account or that it needs to refund the fees Mrs S paid for the Tech, Home and Travel Plus 
packs since they were added to her account.
Finally, Mrs S has said that she has repeatedly asked to downgrade her account but it 
wasnt. Firstly I should say that from the evidence I have been provided I cant see any 
formal requests to downgrade her account was received by Barclays, prior to her complaint. 
I can see from Barclayss records that Mrs S did call in March 2019 and February 2020. However, it seems that Barclays was unable to complete its caller verification process in 
those calls. Mrs S was advised that shed need to provide two forms of ID to branch before 
the telephone service could be used again and I dont think Barclays were wrong to do this. 
So based on what Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Barclays failed to act on any 
instruction given around this time, given that it was unable to take instructions over the 
phone until Mrs S had provided further ID to branch. 
Following Mrs S contacting our service, we contacted Barclays to explain that Mrs S wanted 
to downgrade. Barclays explained that removing the Packs would also affect the overdraft 
that was on Mrs Ss account, so it wanted to ensure Mrs S understood what changes will 
happen once the packs are removed from the account. I understand Barclays has since 
contacted Mrs S about removing the packs and to discuss her financial difficulties. 
If Mrs S remains unhappy with how Barclays has dealt with her financial difficulties concerns, 
she will need to raise her concerns with Barclays in the first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Premier Life account was mis-sold, 
and I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC acted incorrectly or unreasonably when it made 
changes to Mrs Ss account in 2015. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman