DRN-3148108
The complaint
Mr B complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says Money Matters (North East) Limited and 
another financial business (which Ill call Firm E) advised him to transfer. He believes that 
advice was flawed and has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs. 
What happened
Mr B was a member of the BSPS pension scheme. His employer consulted with scheme 
members concerning the possible restructuring of it and the possibility that its benefits would 
be transferring to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme 
(BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
Mr B was concerned about the long-term viability of the BSPS and wanted advice on 
pension planning. He approached Money Matters. It didnt have the necessary permissions 
to advise him on the transfer of defined-benefit pension schemes. So, it referred him to 
Firm E, which has the relevant permission to provide pension transfer advice, in August 
2016.
In September 2016 Firm E advised Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS. In January 2017 
Money Matters took over as the servicing adviser of Mr Bs pension investments. It later 
carried out reviews and gave advice as to his investment strategy in line with his attitude to 
risk. 
In 2020 Mr B complained about the advice to transfer out of the BSPS to Money Matters. By 
that time Firm E had gone into liquidation and so Mr Bs complaint about that business was 
referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Money Matters told Mr B it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension. It 
confirmed that it didnt have the regulatory permission to provide advice about transferring 
defined-benefit pensions and as such had referred him to Firm E.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Amongst other things he said:
Money Matters remained involved throughout the process.
It provided advice to transfer out of the BSPS.
It received commission for introducing Mr B to Firm E.
It had entered into a joint venture with Firm E.
It should remain responsible for the advice it gave before and after Firm Es 
involvement. 
It gave a value judgement which influenced Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS.
It was complicit in the transfer process as it would receive ongoing fees for managing 
the fund after Firm E completed the transfer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He didnt think that 
Money Matters had given Mr B advice. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint, so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Did Money Matters advise Mr B to transfer?
Money Matters didnt have the regulators permission to advise on the transfer of defined-
benefit occupational pension schemes. So, it referred Mr B to Firm E, for Firm E to provide 
advice on the transfer. Once completed Money Matters would then provide ongoing 
investment advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Money Matters gave Mr B 
advice to transfer his BSPS benefits. The evidence shows that Firm E obtained a signed 
client agreement from Mr E setting out its fees for providing advice. It gathered information 
about Mr Bs BSPS benefits and about his circumstances and objectives. It produced a 
pension transfer value analysis report and later gave Mr B a suitability report advising him to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. And all of those documents were produced 
solely in the name of Firm E. There is no reference at any point to Money Matters being 
involved in the pension transfer advice process.
Its clear that Mr B met with Money Matters initially, and he likely had a general discussion 
with it about his objectives and his concern about the status of the BSPS. But based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Money Matters did anything that could be considered as amounting to 
advice before Mr B transferred his pension. Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm E gave the advice 
for Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont think Money Matters earlier involvement 
should automatically make it liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice Firm E 
provided. Its my view that Firm E alone is fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr B to 
transfer.
That said Ive considered whether Mr B would have still opted to transfer his benefits out of 
the BSPS to a personal pension if Firm E had advised him not to transfer. Mr Bs suggested 
that he was influenced to transfer based upon his interactions with Money Matters. But on 
balance I dont think Mr B wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm E. If Firm E 
had provided Mr B with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for him, I dont think Mr B wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his 
earlier discussions with Money Matters, whod told him that it didnt have the relevant 
regulators permission to provide such advice.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Es advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr B to transfer. If that advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm E alone is 
responsible for Mr Bs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did Money Matters and Firm E embark on a joint venture?
Mr B said a joint venture existed between Money Matters and Firm E to arrange his transfer 
out of the BSPS. He said that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss he 
suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Money Matters liable for the advice Firm E gave to Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits. Im 
satisfied Mr B transferred because Firm E advised him to do so, independently of Money Matters involvement. So, I think Mr Bs losses flow from Firm Es advice, rather 
than because of any interaction he had with Money Matters. It follows that I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Money Matters liable for Firm Es advice on the basis that it was a joint 
venture between them.
Money Matters did not treat Mr B fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Bs suggested that Money Matters didnt treat him fairly or act in his best interests. He 
implied that Money Matters was aware that Firm E would advise him to transfer out of the 
BSPS and that Money Matters would then receive ongoing fees from him as a result. As Ive 
said above, Money Matters didnt have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr B 
on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Money Matters couldnt have advised Mr B against 
transferring out, even if it was aware of the regulators starting position that a transfer out of 
a defined-benefits scheme wont usually be in a customers best interest.
Mr Bs said that Money Matters indicated that a transfer would be in his best interests. Its 
certainly possible that Money Matters might have made comments that Mr B understood 
were in support of a transfer. But I don't think that goes as far as giving advice or making a 
recommendation. And the evidence shows it was Firm E which produced the suitability 
report and made a recommendation, not Money Matters. So, regardless of any positive 
comments that Money Matters might have made about the possibility of a transfer, I dont 
think that makes it responsible for the advice Firm E gave to Mr B.
Mr B added that Money Matters received a fee from Firm E for its part in the transfer. But its 
quite common in the financial advice industry for an introducing firm to receive a fee for 
making that introduction. So I don't think the fact it received a fee following completion of the 
transfer means that it provided advice to go ahead with it. Similarly, I'm aware that Money 
Matters continued to charge Mr B fees for ongoing financial advice. But those charges 
applied to advice given after the transfer from the DB scheme had already happened. The 
fact that Money Matters continued to provide advice after the transfer doesn't mean it was 
responsible for the earlier advice given by an entirely different firm.
Mr Bs added that Money Matters actions weren't in his best interests. But as I've already 
said, I don't think Money Matters gave Mr B advice to transfer out of the BSPS. So it simply 
isnt responsible for any losses Mr B might have suffered because of advice to transfer. And 
I note that Mr B hasnt specifically alleged that Money Matters advice in regards to his 
investment strategy wasnt appropriate. Neither has he specifically alleged that its reviews of 
his investments werent reasonable for him at that stage. And I've seen no evidence that its 
later advice was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman