DRN-3984090
The complaint
Ms J complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited sent text messages to her sons mobile 
phone.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In late 2013 Hoist acquired a debt in Ms Js name. Hoist sent Ms J a Notice of Assignment 
setting out the new arrangements. Ms J went on to agree repayments with Hoist.
Ms Js told us she maintained her payments with Hoist and was up to date. But last year, 
Hoist carried out a tracing exercise and found a mobile phone number it thought belonged to 
Ms J and sent text messages offering a settlement. Ms J has explained the number Hoist 
found belongs to her son.
Ms J has explained that her son wasnt aware of the debt she held with Hoist or her financial 
circumstances. Ms J says the disclosure by Hoist caused a lot of embarrassment and upset 
within her family when the matter shouldve remained private. Hoist didnt uphold Ms Js 
complaint.
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Js complaint and upheld it. They asked Hoist to 
pay Ms J £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Hoist agreed, but Ms J asked to 
appeal. Ms J said that she was up to date with her payments as agreed with Hoist and that it 
couldve easily written to her with a settlement offer instead of sending a text to an unverified 
number. Ms J also said she didnt think the £200 settlement offer fairly reflected the level of 
trouble and upset caused.
As Ms J asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. What 
Ive provisionally decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to the investigator, Ms J explained her payments were up to date and made as 
agreed with Hoist. Ms J queried why Hoist felt it necessary to send text messages to a 
number it hadnt verified was hers when it couldve written to her with a settlement offer 
instead. I think thats a reasonable point. Especially as the text messages werent sent 
because Ms J was behind with payments.
We asked Hoist to supply evidence to show how it traced Ms Js sons number instead of 
hers but it wasnt able to comply. So we cant now say why the number traced didnt belong 
to Ms J. But as the text messages were received by Ms Js son, not her, I think its 
reasonable to conclude something went wrong. And that led to private information about Ms 
Js debt with Hoist being shared without her consent.
Ms Js advised that the text messages have caused a lot of upset within her family which has 
been very embarrassing over an extended period. I dont doubt what Ms Js told us about 
how upset shes been and the levels of distress and inconvenience caused. I agree with Ms 
J that she shouldve been able to expect Hoist to keep its dealings with her private. And Im 
satisfied the text messages it sent caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator recommended that Hoist pay Ms J £200 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But I agree with Ms J that £200 doesnt fairly reflect what happened. 
In my view a figure of £400 more fairly reflects the impact of the text messages on Ms J and 
the level of distress and inconvenience caused. Having considered the information Ive seen, 
I intend to uphold the complaint and increase the award from £200 to £400.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Hoist confirmed it was willing to proceed in 
line with the provisional decision. 
Ms J responded and explained her payments with Hoist were up to date and hadnt been 
missed. Ms J also asked why Hoist had contacted her about a settlement offer despite 
making all her payments as agreed. Ms J also gave us some further background on how the 
situation had impacted her and other family members. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms J for providing some further comment concerning the circumstances of 
her complaint. Im aware Ms J had made the agreed payments and wasnt behind when 
Hoist sent the text message about settlement. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied Hoist acted in error when it used an unverified number it obtained to send the 
text message. 
I also accept what Ms Js told us about the fallout from Hoists mistake and the difficulties it 
caused within her family. I agree Hoist shouldnt have used the number to contact her and 
that doing so caused her an unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience. 
Ive reviewed the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision in light of the comments 
Ms Js made. I still think Ms Js complaint should be upheld and that Hoist should pay her a 
total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay her 
a total of £400 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman