DRN-3389111
The complaint
Mr C complains about the refurbishment charges he has been asked to pay by BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera Financial Services, since he 
returned a car he was financing through an agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr C accepts the charges for damage to the bonnet and bumper but doesnt accept 
those for refurbishment of scratches to the quarter panel and door. Ive considered 
the photographs of the damage to those areas that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. 
The BVRLA guidance says that scratches up to 25mm are acceptable and these 
scratches are a little more than that. But, this wasnt a new car when it was supplied, 
and I think it is fair to take into account the age of the car. It was about seven years 
old when it was returned, and I think a reasonable person would therefore expect 
more wear and tear to be present than they would when returning a new car after a 
similar lease. I think the extent of the damage is minimal and in line with what a 
reasonable person would consider reasonable wear and tear on a car of that age and 
I dont think its therefore fair for BMWFS to levy a charge.
BMWFS have directed me to the Consumer Rights Act (2015) which explains in 
section 9 that where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, 
and where that examination ought to reveal a fault, then we shouldnt consider that 
fault a reason to find the goods of unsatisfactory quality. But if the scratches were on 
the car when it was supplied, and if Mr C accepted the car in that condition, it 
wouldnt be a reason for BMWFS to charge him to subsequently repair those 
scratches. So, I dont find that argument compelling.
So, I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
BMWFS should waive the charges theyve made for refurbishment to the door and quarter 
panel.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to waive (or refund if already paid) the charges theyve made for refurbishment 
to the door and quarter panel. They should also remove any adverse reports they may have 
made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman