DRN-2905068
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) took money from his account 
that they say was received fraudulently. Mr N says these were the proceeds of the goods he 
sold and he is entitled to the money. 
What happened
Mr N holds a current account with Halifax. In early December 2018 his account received 
three Faster Payments totalling £37,780. Several days later Halifax received notification from 
the sending banks that these payments were fraudulent. The sending bank issued an 
indemnity and asked for the funds to be returned.
Halifax blocked Mr Ns account and discussed with him where the money came from. Mr N 
explained he had bought some gold bullion, and then listed this for sale on an online auction 
site. He was contacted on his mobile by a third-party, who Ill refer to as Mr R, who offered to 
buy the gold. He sold the gold he had already purchased. He then used some of the 
proceeds from this sale to buy more gold to sell to Mr R. 
Mr N says he gave Mr R the gold in person and through a courier sent by Mr R, and the 
payments were made directly to his account. He said all the discussions took place over the 
phone, so there was no record of what he agreed with Mr R.
Halifax considered this but made the decision to refund the remaining funds in Mr Ns 
account (£22,793.31) to the sending banks.
Mr N wasnt happy with this, as he felt hed lost out on the gold and the money. He 
complained to Halifax. They looked in to what happened but didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. They said as the funds had been paid in to Mr Ns account as a result of 
fraud, they were obligated to return them to the rightful owner.
Unhappy with this response Mr N referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened. They asked Mr N some further questions around a 
cheque for £16,100 that was paid in about a month prior to the fraudulent funds but had 
bounced. Mr N explained this was for another online auction listing of gold, where hed been 
tricked in to sending gold to a fraudster separate from Mr R after they sent him a stolen 
cheque.
The investigator pointed out that this meant there was a discrepancy in the amount of gold 
Mr N had bought, and which he said hed lost  Mr N was saying he lost 10oz more gold 
then he had provided proof of purchase for. 
Mr N then said hed actually fallen victim to the scam in 2017. He said the scammers had 
contacted him again in 2018, and he recognised that it was a scam and went along with it to 
see if the police would get involved. But he said he hadnt sent them any gold in 2018, 
despite attempting to cash the cheque.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They said the terms of Mr Ns 
account allowed Halifax to return the funds to the sender if they were the result of fraud. And 
they didnt feel Mr N had provided enough evidence to show that he was entitled to the funds 
 such as the online auction listings or a police report. The listing he had provided was for a 
sale after all these events had occurred. On that basis they didnt think Halifax had been 
unreasonable in returning the funds to the sending banks.
Mr N disagreed with this. He said hed spoken to the online auction site and theyd provided 
a listing number. He also said hed spoken to the police who had confirmed what had 
happened. Because no agreement could be reached the case has been referred to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the conclusion that Halifax dont need to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the terms of Mr Ns account with Halifax. I can see that terms allow the bank to 
take actions such as restricting the account or removing funds if they become aware it was 
as a result of fraud. It isnt disputed that in this case the money paid in to Mr Ns account was 
fraudulent. So, Im satisfied Halifax have acted in line with their terms.
But I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable. Mr N has said hes lost out, because 
he says he has sold the gold he bought. Hes saying hes been left at a loss as he no longer 
has either the gold or the money. So, Ive considered whether Halifax treated Mr N fairly 
when it returned the money to the sending banks. I think this has two key questions; whether 
Mr N ought reasonably to expect he was entitled to these funds; and whether hes 
demonstrated hes lost out as a result of the banks actions.
However, Im not satisfied that Mr N has demonstrated any deal took place.
I can see that the transactions in to Mr Ns account were from a different name to the person 
he believed he was talking to, Mr R. I think this may have led him to ask further questions, 
especially if, as he says, hed been defrauded while selling gold before and had been 
targeted for fraud the month before. But it doesnt appear this gave Mr N any concerns. 
Theres no record of him discussing either the cheque that was paid in or the transactions in 
someone elses name with his bank. This makes me question why Mr N felt these funds 
were expected and he was entitled to them.
Mr N has said that he was first contacted by Mr R because hed left his mobile number on 
the auction listing. But he hasnt been able to provide this listing for me to verify what the 
listing said. It would seem unusual to me for somebody to leave their mobile number on an 
online auction listing  in fact the website sellers terms bans this.
Hes provided an invoice for fees for a sale of gold, but this is from several weeks after he 
says he was in contact with Mr R. 
This also suggests to me Mr N can still access his online auction account, so Im unsure why 
he cant provide details of the listing, as it would seem likely still available to him. He has 
since provided us with another auction number, but no method of verifying what this listing 
was selling.
Mr N has also said all his contact with Mr R was over the phone, so there are no records of 
their communication. So again, theres no way for me to verify what Mr N was told, or what 
was agreed. And Mr N says he handed over the gold in person to Mr R, and used Mr Rs courier. There is no documentary evidence of him sending the gold. I think its very unusual 
that there appears to be no records kept of the sale of a considerable value of gold. 
Overall then, Im not persuaded that Mr N has demonstrated he was entitled to the funds 
paid in to his account. Mr N hasnt been able to supply evidence to support his story, when 
such evidence could be available to him. 
In the circumstances I think it was reasonable for Halifax to remove the remaining fraudulent 
funds, as per the terms of his account. As such Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc do not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman