DRN-2157451
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined 
a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, so Ill refer to him 
throughout. RSA used a number of agents to manage the claim and references I make to 
RSAs actions include the actions of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary 
here.
In 2013 Mr C noticed possible subsidence damage to his property
The main area of damage was his garage but with cracks in his conservatory too
He reported it to RSA and, following investigation, it was established there was 
subsidence damage to his garage caused by root induced clay shrinkage
Some work was done to remove vegetation which was having an impact but the 
claim remains ongoing while the issues with the conservatory are still in dispute
Sometime after, in 2018, the cracks in the conservatory had expanded 
Following investigation, it was established the conservatory was affected by 
subsidence too  
This wasnt discovered sooner at the previous investigations focused on the garage 
which was the main area of damage
RSA said the foundations of the conservatory werent deep enough and didnt meet 
the standards set by a certain builder of new homes, which Ill refer to as N.
It declined the claim under a clause relating to defective design
Mr C complained about the declination of his claim and that RSA hadnt identified the 
subsidence to the conservatory when investigating the earlier subsidence in 2013 
RSA maintained its position
Our investigator considered the complaint and said Ns guidelines didnt apply to the 
conservatory and so it was unfair for RSA to rely on them to say the foundations 
were defectively designed and so decline the claim
RSA asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making an insurance claim, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate the claim is 
covered by the policy. If an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the 
onus is on the insurer to show the exclusion applies.  So, Ill be considering the terms of the 
policy and the exclusion RSA has relied on when reaching a decision on this complaint, 
while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
What the policy says
Its accepted that the cause of the damage to the conservatory is subsidence and this risk is 
covered by the policy but in line with most insurance policies, there are exclusions to cover. 
The terms detail the various exclusions applying to all sections of the policy. These explain it 
doesnt cover:
Defective construction or design
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from 
poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials
RSA says the foundations of the conservatory werent as deep as they should have been 
and were therefore defective in design so Ive gone on to consider whether RSA has enough 
evidence to support this position. 
Was it fair for RSA to rely on Ns guidelines?
Generally, conservatories are exempt from building regulations and I note RSA has 
acknowledged this in correspondence with Mr C in November 2019. It said that normal good 
building practice requires foundations to be to 1,000mm to allow for site conditions although I 
note that it didnt state the source of these requirements at that time.
The investigations undertaken as part of the claim show the foundations of the conservatory 
were to 200mm. In its final response to Mr Cs complaint, RSA says Ns guidelines for the 
building of new houses say the foundations should have been to a minimum of 900mm to 
allow for the effect of nearby vegetation. And because the foundations were 700mm 
shallower than this, it says they were defective in design.
I understand where RSA has obtained these recommended figures from, but Ive not seen 
anything to show Mr Cs conservatory was subject to these standards at the time it was built. 
It doesnt appear the conservatory was built as part of a new house or that the builder was 
required to take these standards into account for any other reason. So, I dont think it would 
be fair to judge the design of the foundations against these standards  they simply dont 
apply. 
And while I acknowledge RSAs view on why these standards apply  reiterated in response 
to our investigators view - its not generally the approach this service adopts. RSA hasnt 
shown me sufficient evidence to persuade me I should deviate from this approach. 
Would the damage have happened anyway?
At the time, if building regulations had applied to the construction of the conservatory  and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest they would have  foundations should have been between a 
minimum of 750mm and 1,000mm.
Even if I were to accept Ns standards or building regulations were the appropriate standards 
to judge the effectiveness of the foundations by  which I dont  Im not persuaded this 
would have avoided the subsidence anyway. Ill explain why.
The investigations showed roots at 3,000mm so even if the conservatory foundations had 
significantly exceeded the minimum building regulation requirements  which dont apply 
anyway - it seems to me, on balance, its more likely than not the roots would still have had 
an impact on the foundations.
Our investigator raised this point with RSA and it said this point was irrelevant because it 
believed the foundations should have been engineer designed to take account of the local conditions. However, it offered no evidence or regulations that apply to back up this belief 
and Im not persuaded by what its said.
And for this reason, Im not satisfied the conservatory foundation depth was the main cause 
of the subsidence and, it follows, Im not persuaded RSA acted fairly when it relied on the 
defective design clause to decline the claim.
Putting things right
RSA should now accept the claim for subsidence damage.
When RSA responded to Mr Cs complaint, it didnt go into detail about how it would resolve 
the subsidence issue if it were to deal with it, because it didnt need to  it was declining the 
claim. For that reason, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make a finding on how 
RSA should deal with the claim.
However, I will explain that as a guiding principle, we generally expect insurers to provide a 
lasting and effective repair. In a subsidence claim, that means stabilising the building. There 
are different ways of achieving that, including removing trees and/or underpinning. Whats 
most appropriate depends on the particular circumstances of the claim. We also expect 
insurers to handle claims promptly and to take into account the timescale of any possible 
actions when deciding how to handle a claim fairly.
To move things forward, RSA should reassess the information it has about the claim. It 
should set out clearly to Mr C how it intends to handle the claim in order to provide a lasting 
and effective repair  and the likely timeframe involved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal and Sun Alliance Plc to 
accept Mr and Mrs Cs claim and deal with it in line with my comments above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman