DRN-3049383
The complaint
Ms B complains that NewDay Ltd provided her with two credit cards which were 
unaffordable. 
What happened
Ms B applied for a credit card with NewDay in March 2009. This credit card was under the 
Aqua brand. She was initially given a £900 credit limit. The credit limit was amended by 
NewDay over the coming years as follows:
Increased to £1,400 in June 2009
Increased to £2,450 in April 2014
Increased to £3,700 in May 2016
Increased to £4,850 in October 2016
Increased to £6,450 in February 2017
This account defaulted in June 2018.
Ms B applied for another credit card with NewDay in August 2017, this time under the 
Marbles brand. She was given a credit limit of £900 on this card and the limit has never 
increased. This account has been passed to a debt collection agency.
Ms B complained that the credit cards were unaffordable to her and that she was given 
multiple credit limit increases which led her into further debt. Ms B says her job changed in 
2016 which reduced the amount she was able to earn. She says at this time she had 
multiple payday loans. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He explained that there are certain rules 
which set out the time limits for complaints to be referred to us. He said that the initial credit 
card application for the Aqua card and the first credit limit increase in June 2009 hadnt been 
referred to us in time. This was because Ms B hadnt referred the complaint to us within six 
years of the event she was complaining about, or within three years of when she ought to 
have known she had reason to complain  which our rules say must happen for us to be 
able to look into a complaint. He said that as NewDay hadnt consented to us considering 
these points, we couldnt look into them. Ms B accepted this. 
Our investigator went on to consider the increases of the credit limit on the Aqua card from 
2014 to 2017 and the application for the new Marbles card. He didnt think that NewDay 
shouldve offered Ms B the credit limit increases. He also thought NewDay shouldnt have 
agreed to Ms Bs application for the Marbles credit card. He recommended NewDay remove 
all interest and charges on the account and remove any adverse data recorded on her credit 
file. 
Ms B accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay didnt. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator, and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
Ms B has accepted our investigators opinion that the initial application for the Aqua credit 
card and the first credit limit increase were referred to our service to late. For completeness, 
Ill confirm that I agree that Ms B didnt refer these complaint points within the time limits set 
out in our rules for the reasons our investigator explained. But I wont address this in further 
detail.
When a business is lending, or increasing lending, such as in this situation, its required to 
carry out checks which are reasonable and proportionate to the amount being lent. And it 
also needs to show it considered that Ms B wouldve been able to sustainably repay the 
credit provided, without causing undue difficulty and without having to borrow further to meet 
other financial commitments. And sustainably repay means Ms B shouldve been able to 
repay the full amount of credit within a reasonable time. 
Having looked at everything provided by NewDay I can see that it did carry out a number of 
checks including looking at the other lending Ms B had elsewhere, and how she had 
conducted her NewDay accounts. But I dont agree that the checks it carried out shouldve 
led it to the decision to continually increase Ms Bs borrowing facilities. Ill explain why.
Ms B maintained the balance of her cards very close to, and often over, the credit limit. She 
usually only made minimum payments. And after every credit increase, she would quickly 
spend the additional money shed been provided, and then maintain this balance by only 
making the minimum payments again. I also note that Ms B regularly made cash withdrawals 
on her card. Whilst each of these issues, taken alone, may not have meant that a credit limit 
increase was unaffordable, when taken together, I think they raise a number of questions 
which shouldve been looked into further.  Ms B was getting into a debt spiral where it was 
increasingly likely she would never be able to repay the debt, let alone over a reasonable 
period. I think, following the checks it carried out, NewDay shouldve realised that increasing 
the borrowing would be unaffordable for Ms B.
Ill address each credit limit increase separately. 
March 2014
In the 12 months prior to this credit limit increase, Ms B was over the credit card limit and 
incurring charges because of this, for seven months. Whilst she did manage to bring this 
within the limit, she was only making the minimum payments and the balance remained very 
close to the credit limit. Based on this information, its clear Ms B wasnt managing her credit 
card very well at this time and was struggling just to stay within her existing limit. I dont think 
the answer to this was to offer more borrowing. I think that NewDay shouldve realised this 
and, had it done so, I dont think it shouldve offered her an increase leading her potentially 
into further debt when she was struggling to afford what she already had.
May 2016 Prior to this increase, Ms B had exceeded her credit limit for ten of the previous 12 months. 
Shed been charged for each of these credit limit breaches and had also been charged once 
for paying late. I also note that Ms B had multiple payday loans by this time. Again, all of 
these points show me that Ms B was struggling with her existing credit limit, with little 
prospect of it ever being repaid. And a further increase was likely to make matters worse. 
Following the previous credit limit increase, shed quickly gone to the new limit, and had 
exceeded it regularly. Based on this, I dont think a further increase was affordable to her.
 
October 2016 
This increase was just five months after Ms Bs previous increase. In that time, Ms B had 
again reached the new limit and was still making minimum payments only. Shed also 
incurred a late payment fee the month before. This shows me that Ms B was likely to quickly 
use any increase she was provided with, and have very little chance of ever making a 
meaningful reduction in her debt. So I dont think providing a further increase was right for 
her. 
February 2017
Ms B very quickly went to the upper end of the new credit limit in October 2016, and had 
exceeded it in December 2016. And she was charged a fee for this. Whilst she did bring it 
back to just under the limit, she was still only making the minimum payments with little 
prospect for this debt being repaid. And I dont think offering Ms B a further £1,600 credit 
was affordable to her. This is evidenced further, in my opinion, by the fact that she had 
exceeded her new credit limit of £6,450 by September 2017 - within 7 months of the most 
recent increase. 
This increase was just four months after the previous large increase, and just nine months 
from the increase before that. This meant that Ms Bs credit limit had increased from £3,700 
to £6,450 in just nine months. And it was at this time that Ms B started to fall behind on her 
payments. She was never able to reduce these arrears or bring the debt under the credit 
limit, and the account defaulted in June 2018. So I dont think this increase was affordable 
either
Marbles Credit Card Application August 2017
Ms B was clearly struggling with her existing debt with NewDay. This application for a new 
credit card came just six months after NewDay had increased Ms Bs limit on her Aqua card 
to £6,450 and she exceeded this credit limit within three months of it being granted. It was 
passed to a debt collection agency within eight months. Ms B still had existing payday loans 
at this time as well. Whilst this wouldnt preclude a customer from obtain further debt in itself. 
When taken with the other information NewDay knew about Ms B, it shouldve realised 
further lending was unaffordable.
Ive already set out why I dont think NewDay shouldve granted the credit limit increases. So 
it follows that, for the same reasons, I dont think it shouldve agreed the application for the 
new Marbles card. In effect furthering her debt with NewDay which was already at 
unsustainable levels for the reasons set out above. 
Ive noted NewDays point that Ms B didnt have to accept these limit increases. But thats 
not the point here. NewDay shouldnt have offered these increases which were, in effect, 
trapping Ms B in a debt she could never reasonably expect to repay.  
Putting things rightTo put things right, I direct NewDay Ltd to:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the Aqua account since April 2014. 
NewDay may offset this against the defaulted balance, but if there remains a positive 
balance after doing so, NewDay should add 8% simple interest to this. 
Remove any adverse information which is recorded on Ms Bs credit file about this 
debt from April 2014.
Refund all interest and charges applied to the Marbles account from inception. 
NewDay may offset this against the balance which is now with a debt collection 
agency. If there remains a positive balance after doing so, NewDay should add 8% 
simple interest to this.
Remove all details of this account from Ms Bs credit file.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Newday Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman