DRN-3503667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited, trading as NatWest
Insurance (UKI), has handled their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance coverage provided through their bank account. This
policy is insured by UKI.
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs L and their son travelled abroad. When they arrived at their
destination, their luggage was missing. Mr and Mrs L were reunited with their luggage about
a week later, but they noticed that their suitcases were damaged, and nine pairs of
sunglasses were missing.
Mr and Mrs L received payments from the airline, but they said this didnt cover all of their
costs. So, they made a claim to UKI upon their return for the cost to replace the suitcases
and the missing sunglasses, along with the costs of replacement items Mr and Mrs L
incurred during the time they were without their luggage.
In September 2020, UKI did agree to make a settlement  but Mr and Mrs L said the
settlement wasnt enough to cover their losses. They complained to UKI and brought their
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She found that
Mr and Mrs L hadnt provided UKI with all of the necessary evidence to support their claim
and so she said that UKI had handled the claim reasonably based on what it had been
given. She didnt think it needed to do anything further at this stage.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 23 May 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
Mr and Mrs L have made a number of complaints to UKI since 2019 in relation to the
progression of their claim and UKIs handling of the investigation. These have been
considered separately and a separate decision has been issued. This decision refers only to
the complaint raised by Mr and Mrs L and responded to in UKIs final response dated 7
October 2020.
The claim made by Mr and Mrs L to UKI was for nine pairs of sunglasses which they
estimated would cost £450 to replace, three damaged suitcases which Mr and Mrs L
estimated the replacement at £1200, and an amount for the replacement items they had to
purchase whilst they were without their luggage.
UKI has made a payment of £403 for the sunglasses and luggage. Mr and Mrs L say this
sum is too low and doesnt include any payment for the additional items they had to buy.
Policy terms and conditions
The travel insurance policy Mr and Mrs L have with UKI includes terms and conditions
explaining what it will and wont cover. The policy does provide cover for baggage, within
section H, and it states the following:
We will cover you if your baggage is lost, stolen or accidentally damaged during your
trip.
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person is £2,500. This is reduced to:
 £400 for any one item (including items that form part of a pair or set of items).
 £1,000 in total for valuable items.
Special conditions
If your baggage is lost, stolen or damaged while it is in the care of an airline 
you must:
 get a Property Irregularity Report within the time limit shown in their 
conditions of carriage
You must provide us with proof of ownership and value for the items of 
baggage for which you are claiming to substantiate your claim. If you do not, 
it may affect your claim.
The policy also includes a list of things that it doesnt cover within this section, the relevant
ones to this complaint are as follows:
We will not cover:
the excess amount. This is £75 for every claim for each insured person;
any expenses that you can recover from elsewhere;
There is a separate section within the policy, section I, which considers claims for delayed
baggage. This states the following:
We will cover you for essential replacement of toiletries, medication and items of
clothing and the temporary hire of replacement sports equipment if your baggage is
temporarily lost for more than four hours following your arrival at your destination.
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person is £650 as follows:
 £100 after four hours;
 A further £150 after 12 hours; and
 A further £400 after 48 hours.
 We will not pay more £650 in total for any one event regardless of the number of
you that are claiming.
Special conditions
 If your baggage is lost while it is in the care of an airline you must: get a Property Irregularity Report within the time limit shown in their 
conditions of carriage to show how long you were without your baggage; and
 keep your tickets and luggage tags.
 You must keep the receipts for any essential replacement items you buy or hire.
 We will deduct the amount of any claim under this section (other than for hire costs)
from any claim you make under Section H Baggage if your baggage is permanently
lost.
There are also general conditions which apply to all sections of the policy. In the general
conditions it states the following:
3. Claims Procedure  Our Rights and Your Obligations
We are entitled to:
[]
 refuse to pay any claim where you have not provided sufficient receipts, 
bills or evidence to support your claim.
4. Evidence Of Claims
you or your legal representatives must provide at your own expense all 
certificates, information and evidence that we need in order to consider your 
claim;
Has the claim been handled fairly?
UKI has provided the following breakdown in support of the settlement it has offered:
£300 - for six pairs of sunglasses
£806 - for suitcases (after deduction of £394 compensation paid by the airline)
£1106 - total amount
£553 - after 50% deduction (due to no damage reports/evidence needed replacing)
£403 - settlement after deduction of the applicable policy excess (for two persons)
The settlement doesnt include any payment for additional items Mr and Mrs L had to
purchase whilst they were abroad and without their luggage. Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with
this settlement which they say is too low.
As detailed above, the policy requires Mr and Mrs L to provide evidence to support their
claim.
In relation to the sunglasses that were lost, the policy states that you must provide proof of
ownership and value of your items to substantiate the claim. Mr and Mrs L claimed for nine
pairs of sunglasses and they provided photos as evidence of ownership. They have also
provided their own replacement values. UKI hasnt explained why it has only paid for six
pairs, as opposed to the nine claimed. Nor has UKI explained why the settlement of six pairs
was then reduced by 50%, essentially bringing the amount paid before deduction of the
excess, to £150 for the sunglasses.
As it appears Mr and Mrs L have provided the evidence of the items claimed, as required by
the policy, I dont think it is reasonable for UKI to only consider six pairs of glasses and then
apply the 50% deduction without any proper reasoning for this. So, Im not satisfied that,based on the explanation provided, that UKIs settlement for the sunglasses is fair.
Even though I dont think UKIs settlement for the sunglasses is fair, Im not persuaded that it
needs to increase its settlement offer to Mr and Mrs L. Ill explain why.
When looking at the suitcases claim, UKI has said Mr and Mrs L have not provided proof that
their suitcases were damaged beyond repair. Mr and Mrs L have said they believe they have
provided UKI with everything that is needed to settle the claim. UKI made it clear to Mr and
Mrs L that it needed evidence of the damage  I can see that it repeated the request for
information on several occasions. Ive noted that photographs of the suitcases have been
provided as evidence. Having looked at these photos, they only appear to show marks to the
exterior of the cases. And whilst I appreciate that these marks may affect the look of the
items, Im not persuaded that the photos demonstrate the cases were damaged beyond
repair and therefore needed replacing.
As Mr and Mrs L havent evidenced that there was damage to the suitcases which meant
they required replacement, Im not persuaded that UKI was supplied with sufficient evidence
by Mr and Mrs L to support their claim  as required by the policy - and so I dont think UKI
was obliged to make any payment to them for the suitcases.
Taking that into account, Im of the opinion that the settlement offer made for £403 is more
than what Mr and Mrs L would be entitled to - as I dont think UKI had to make a payment for
the suitcases. Ive therefore considered what they should have been paid for the sunglasses.
The sunglasses belonged to three people which means an excess of £75 could have been
deducted for each persons part of the claim, bringing the amount to £225. Mr and Mrs L
have received £178 more than this sum in the overall settlement offer. So, I dont think UKI
needs to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs L have also complained that the settlement didnt include any payment for the
additional items they had to buy when they were without their luggage. The policy does
provide cover for the purchase of essential items in these circumstances and so I can
appreciate why they think UKI should pay this part of their claim. However, Mr and Mrs L
also received a payment from their airline for expenses they incurred whilst abroad. The
amount paid by the airline is more than the amount claimed from UKI by Mr and Mrs L, as
substantiated by the receipts and bank statements they provided.
Insurance policies are to cover losses - they are not there to provide a profit for the
policyholder. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask UKI to pay Mr and Mrs L for the additional
costs they incurred if they have already received payment for this amounts - unless there
was evidence to show that the items claimed from the airline differed from those claimed
from UKI. I understand UKI has requested that this information is provided. At this stage, Ive
not seen any evidence to show the amounts claimed from both parties are different. So, Im
therefore not persuaded UKI needs to make any payment for these costs.
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy about the length of time it has taken to consider their claim. I can
appreciate that this matter has been ongoing for quite some time so I understand why they
would be frustrated by this process. However, Im satisfied that UKIs requests for
information were reasonable and necessary to support the claim  and these requests were
reiterated to Mr and Mrs L whenever they made contact.
In conclusion, whilst I dont think that UKIs settlement calculation for the sunglasses is
correct, for the reasons already stated, I think that ultimately Mr and Mrs L have received a
fair and reasonable settlement offer overall, based on the cover under the policy and the
evidence so far supplied to support their claim. Im not currently minded to ask UKI to do
anything more.UKI responded to say it had no further comments to make. Mr and Mrs L also responded, 
and Ive summarised their comments below:
The suitcase damage cant be appreciated from the photos, the zips were broken 
following the cases being crushed in the week when they went missing.
The contents were coming out of the suitcase as they rushed to catch their plane. 
This particular suitcase was damaged beyond repair.
They had to dispose of the cases abroad and the request for evidence of the damage 
was not received until some months later.
Thinks that the ombudsman would have to consider them as liars, claiming for a 
suitcase that was beyond repair when it wasnt. They were not aware that trust within 
the insurance industry had been replaced with an assumption that the claimant is 
always lying.
They were told they could spend £60 per day, per person, to obtain essentials. There 
was no mention on the call of retaining receipts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for responding to the decision. And whilst Ive noted and 
considered all of the points made by Mr and Mrs L, these dont persuade me to alter my 
outcome. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the policy terms and conditions require the policy 
holder to provide evidence to support a claim. Mr and Mrs L have said themselves that the 
damage cannot be appreciated from the photos  and therefore I cannot say that sufficient 
evidence has been provided to show these items were damaged beyond repair and 
therefore needed replacing. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ls comments regarding the need to 
replace the suitcases before coming home and I can understand their frustration at the 
outcome as they no longer have the items which were disposed of abroad. But it would be 
unfair for me to ask UKI to pay this claim without supporting evidence simply because the 
items are no longer available.
I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs L that this decision is based purely on the policy 
conditions and whether the settlement reached by UKI was fair and reasonable - it is not in 
any way a reflection on anyones character. The requirement to prove there is a valid claim 
under the contract is the responsibility of the policy holder and Im not persuaded this 
requirement has been met. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they were not advised they needed to keep receipts for the 
additional items purchased when they spoke to UKI when they were still abroad. The 
delayed baggage section of the policy isnt a cash benefit, but instead will provide 
reimbursement for additional purchases during the time they were without their luggage up 
to certain limits. So, Mr and Mrs L would need to provide evidence of their spending and, as 
detailed in my provisional decision, it seems they have done so as theyve provided to UKI a 
list of items they had to purchase, accompanied by receipts. What UKI has requested is 
confirmation that these items arent included in the payment Mr and Mrs L received from the 
airline  I think it is reasonable for UKI to obtain this clarification before making a payment. If 
Mr and Mrs L can provide the details to show that the items claimed from the airline are 
different to those submitted to UKI, I would expect UKI to reconsider this aspect of the claim.When taking everything into account, Im still of the opinion that Mr and Mrs L have received 
a fair and reasonable settlement offer overall, based on what has been provided so far to 
evidence their claim. I dont require UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman