DRN-3333949
The complaint
Mr V complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for his stolen 
motorbike.
What happened
Two motorbikes were stolen from Mr Vs garage, one of which was insured by Ageas.
Mr V contacted Ageas to make a claim. He told them he had CCTV footage showing the 
thieves forcing the garage door open and taking the bikes. He said theyd taken the ignition 
keys, which had been hidden in a sliding desk drawer. 
Ageas said they wouldnt pay Mr Vs claim because the key had been left in the garage with 
the bike. Mr V complained about this decision. He said that, following a break-in to his 
house, hed decided it would be safer to keep the keys in the locked garage. He stressed 
that the key wasnt in the vehicle. But Ageas said their decision was fair and reasonable. 
Mr V brought his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt aware of any policy 
requirements as to where the keys should be kept. He said both bikes had steering locks 
and had been in a locked garage, in line with the requirements of the policy. And that the 
CCTV footage had shown the thieves to have been in the garage for around ten minutes 
before they left with the bikes. 
Our investigator thought that, as Mr V had been burgled before, he recognised the risk of 
someone entering his property, finding the key, and using it to steal his motorbike. She 
thought leaving the key in an unlocked drawer next to the motorbike had made it possible for 
the thieves to start the bike and drive it away. She said that, although another insurer had 
paid out for the other bike, she could only look at whether it was fair and reasonable for 
Ageas to decline the claim under this policy. She didnt think it was unfair for Ageas to say 
reasonable steps hadnt been taken to avoid and prevent a claim.
Mr V disagreed. He said he believed hed taken adequate precautions by storing the 
motorbike in a locked garage that was attached to the house. He didnt think the fact that the 
keys were in a drawer made any difference to the thieves, as theyd already forced entry to 
the garage. He said they came with the intent to steal and wheeled the motorbike away. He 
felt there was always a risk of potentially making a claim, otherwise people wouldnt bother 
paying for comprehensive insurance. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2022, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that financial businesses 
such as Ageas must follow. This includes a requirement not to unreasonably reject a claim. 
But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled 
to set out what cover theyre prepared to offer. Theyre also entitled to expect policy holders 
to comply with conditions set out in the policy to reduce the risk, provided theyre fair and 
reasonable. Ive reviewed Mr Vs policy wording in detail.
The first section of the policy explains the cover for loss of the vehicle. This makes it clear 
that Ageas will not pay for loss due to theft whilst the ignition keys have been left in or on the 
motorbike. Mr Vs policy schedule sets out additional endorsements that apply. They say 
Ageas wont cover theft unless the motorbike is kept in a locked and secured building at the 
policyholders home (or another address agreed by Ageas), with the immobiliser activated 
and working at the time of the loss. Mr V says he followed these requirements.
The policy booklet also sets out general conditions at page 23. These include a requirement 
for Mr V to take all reasonable steps to safeguard the motorbike from loss or damage. Ive 
given careful thought to whether it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to say he hadnt met 
this requirement. 
When considering whether the policyholder failed to take reasonable care, we adopt a 
similar approach to that taken by the courts. The appropriate test to be applied is one of 
recklessness. This means wed look to see whether Mr V recognised that there was a risk in 
keeping his motorbike keys in the desk drawer in the garage - but did nothing to avert it.
Ageas have provided a copy of their claim notes, confirming they asked Mr V about the 
ignition keys. The notes say Mr V told them hed previously kept the keys in the house, but 
the house had been burgled. And that this was why hed decided to hide the keys in the 
garage. The evidence Ive seen indicates that he chose this location because he believed it 
to be a safe place to keep them. I bear in mind the fact that Mr Vs garage forms part of his 
house.
I appreciate that Ageas consider Mr Vs decision to keep the keys in the garage to have 
been unwise. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr V recognised that this could increase 
the risk of his motorbike being stolen. And for that reason, Im not persuaded that it was fair 
for Ageas to decide that hed failed to take reasonable care of it.
 
I said that, based on the evidence Id seen so far, I wasnt persuaded that Ageas could rely 
on failure to take reasonable care as grounds to decline Mr Vs claim. I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint and direct Ageas to:
settle Mr Vs claim for his stolen motorcycle, subject to the remaining policy terms;
pay 8% simple interest on the cash settlement made, calculated from the date of the 
claim to the date payment is made.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Mr V said he accepted my provisional decision. Ageas didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information or comments have been provided in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from them.My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas 
Insurance Limited to:
settle Mr Vs claim for his stolen motorcycle, subject to the remaining policy terms;
pay 8% simple interest on the cash settlement made, calculated from the date of the 
claim to the date payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman