DRN-4225833
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) didnt carry over 
her unused dental benefit to the next policy year.
What happened
Mrs C has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by WPA. 
In the policy year 2021  2022 Mrs C had £250 general dental benefit available but only 
used £127.12.  She asked for the remaining £122.88 to be carried over for use in the 
following policy year. 
WPA confirmed the policy benefits reset every year and if they arent used within the policy 
year, they do not get carried over to the following year. It said the policy runs on a 12-month 
contract and claims are assessed against the contract for the policy year.
Unhappy, Mrs C complained and referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think WPA had treated Mrs C unfairly.
Mrs C disagreed and in summary, said the terms and conditions dont say unused benefit 
cannot be carried over to the next year.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. 
Mrs C has dental care which pays up to £250 for general dental treatment. The policy says:
Your policy is an annual contract of insurance.
The policy schedule confirms:
The benefit amounts shown are the maximum amounts payable per person policy 
year.
The policy is an annual contract and so any benefit limit is per policy year. Mrs C says the 
policy doesnt say that unused benefits cannot be carried over and so any unused benefit 
should be carried over. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs C has said but I am satisfied that the policy is a clear 
annual contract which means the agreement and any benefit only lasts for a year. If any 
benefit isnt used within the policy year, there is no provision for it to be carried over to the 
next year as the contract has effectively ended and at renewal, a new contract starts. The 
renewed contract would then be subject to the new policy limit for the new policy year. If the 
unused benefit was carried over, this would exceed the maximum benefit of £250 per person 
per policy year for general dental treatment. I think the policy is sufficiently clear that the limit 
applies to the policy year so I dont think it needs to say unused benefit cant be carried over.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman