DRN-2174533
The complaint
Mr K complains that Novaloans Ltd has not done enough in relation to a repayment 
arrangement. 
What happened
Mr K complained about irresponsible lending to Novaloans in 2019. Novaloans response 
was to not uphold the complaint but it made an offer to Mr K which was a resolution he 
accepted. That resolution effectively reduced the outstanding balance from around £671 to 
around £272. It meant that Novaloans was content for Mr K to pay the principal amount 
borrowed of £400 less £127.80 he had already paid.  
In November 2019 contact was made between Mr K and Novaloans and a repayment plan 
was set up. Those payments failed. In March 2020 Mr K received an email from a debt 
collecting company to chase for the full payment (and offering a discount available until 30 
April 2020). Mr K replied to it saying that there was an agreement in place to repay £272 and 
asking the debt collectors to query this with Novaloans. It placed the account on hold while 
the query was sorted out. 
In April 2020 Mr K complained to Novaloans in these terms: I am not happy that no-one has 
ever replied to my emails confirming setting up a payment arrangement. I had not been able 
to call as used work from 6am until 8pm and as my job was driving, I could not make or 
receive calls during the day. Someone should have at least acknowledged my emails.
And the £272.20 agreement should be honoured as its not my fault no-one responded to 
my emails accepting the payment arrangement.
In his complaint form to this service, Mr K has repeated his concerns about lack of 
communication from Novaloans and adds: I am more than willing to repay the £272.20 and 
I think it is totally unfair for them to revoke this as it was always my intention to pay this. 
They were the ones who never replied back to me.
A summary of Novaloans response is that it has emailed and called Mr K in August 2019 
and September 2019 following the initial agreement. It made arrangements with him in 
November 2019 and the repayment plan failed. It was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure that the 
debt was paid. Novaloans says it exercised forbearance and reserved the right to revoke any 
offers where a customer has not cooperated. Novaloans says that the full outstanding 
balance of just over £671 was due.  
Mr K brought his complaint to this service in April 2020. 
Mr K has told us that in or around June 2020 the debt collectors offered a 50% reduction on 
the total debt again and he accepted it. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He had asked Novaloans on Mr Ks behalf if 
it would reinstate the agreement for Mr K to repay the lesser sum. But it declined. 
Our adjudicator created a careful chronology of events and contact between the parties and 
included this in his response to both parties in this complaint. This was sent to them on 
27 August 2020. He did not agree with Mr Ks views that it was Novaloans fault for not 
contacting Mr K. His chronology was to show that he thought that Novaloans had done 
enough. 
Mr K disagreed and replied with many points on 13 September 2020. He also said that he 
had been signed off sick from work for all of July 2020 and some of August 2020. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not intend to set out here the careful and very helpful chronology created by our 
adjudicator. I have checked the accuracy of it and as both parties have it then there are no 
reasons to duplicate it. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr K was unwell in 2019 and again in 2020. I have seen the sicknotes 
for 2020. 
Having read all the correspondence  - as I can see that there clearly have been emails 
between the parties since August 2019  and taking all matters into consideration I do not 
uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Novaloans had exercised forbearance at the time the August 2019 agreement was made 
and since. It received no repayments after August 2019. I agree that the onus is on the 
debtor to ensure that the payments are made when they should be. But I have checked what 
the lenders are expected to do in these circumstances, and I explain below. 
The provisions in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook, 
chapter 7.3 do outline how a lender ought to approach a situation with a customer who is in 
arrears. And the provisions clearly say that the lender needs to give the customer space and 
apply forbearance and, in some situations, not apply pressure to the customer by, for 
instance, constantly chasing him or her for payment. 
A reasonable time suggested in CONC is around 30 days and that additional time beyond 
that should be given where needed. Here I do think that Novaloans did this. Despite 
contacting Mr K twice in August and September 2019, it was content to arrange repayments 
in November 2019 which was several months after it had written off the interest and charges 
for the loan. The failure of that plan which would have been five months after the original 
agreement in August 2019, seems to have been the point at which Novaloans decided it was 
an unreasonable period being taken to repay the loan. 
I do not think that Novaloans has done anything wrong in the way it has approached this 
situation with Mr K. 
I understand from email correspondence since this complaint came to the service that Mr K 
has accepted a 50% reduction from the debt collector and either has paid or is in the 
process of paying the debt. 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman