DRN-4113319
The complaint
Mr H says Interactive Investor Trading Limited (IITL) is responsible for the loss of a trading 
(and profit making) opportunity in his pension account in October 2022; that it is responsible 
for the matters that caused the lost opportunity (mainly being his inability to access the 
account online and IITLs delay in addressing the problem); and that his experience was 
compounded by IITLs poor customer service. He claims compensation for the lost 
opportunity and for the trouble and inconvenience the matter caused him.
Mr H had third-party authority to conduct trading in other linked IITL accounts. His complaint 
submissions refer this and to such trading mirroring that conducted in his account. He says 
the complaint matter affected his and the other accounts. However, he has confirmed that 
the complaint is only about his account, and this service has treated it as such. This decision 
is only about his account and his complaint.
What happened
Mr H has described the background to his case. It features the mini-budget issued in late 
September 2022 and his reaction to that in early October 2022. He was/is an experienced 
investor and he refers to a specific interest (and expertise) in UK fixed interest securities. He 
says mainly as follows:
He considered that the mini-budget had led to a sell-off of long duration 30 plus year 
UK gilts. By early October he formed the view that they had been over-sold, that their 
prices had fallen significantly and that they presented a once in a lifetime buying 
opportunity for an investor like him. 
[He has shared contemporaneous evidence that he held and expressed this belief at 
the time.]
He began buying such gilts on 5 October with available cash. By 10 October he had 
exhausted the available cash, so he decided to liquidate stock holdings in order to 
raise more cash and buy more gilts. 
On 11 October he contacted IITL because he could not access his account online. 
This remained the case until two weeks thereafter when online access to the account 
was eventually restored. By this time, the impact of the mini-budget had begun to be 
stabilised and the prices for the targeted gilts had rebounded, so his buying 
opportunity was lost. He says he lost at least £100,000 in profit that he would have 
made from trading that the blocked online access prevented him from conducting, 
and he has referred to examples of the price gains that followed in some of the 
targeted trades.
Despite having been made aware of his trading pursuit, IITL mishandled the entire 
matter, which consumed considerable amounts of his time and effort over the 
relevant two weeks. It did not understand the problem or its cause or how to resolve 
it; it did not provide him with alternative online access to the account; its 
communications with him were poor; it kept passing him from one official to another 
and, in the end, he spoke to at least 11 different officials (some more than once); and 
despite requesting that it should not communicate with him through secure messages 
(because he could not access them) he later discovered that it had done precisely 
that. In addition, he also found it unhelpful that its website logged him out after a 
short period of inactivity, without prior notice.
IITL says the problem related to an annual identification/personal details verification process 
that was engaged at the time, which required completion before online access could be 
restored. 
It accepts that Mr H made contact on 11 October; that he had to call again on 13 October 
because he had previously requested, but not received, information about the linked 
accounts in which verification was outstanding; that he called again on 14 October for the 
same reason, and a technical problem at its end disconnected the call but it did not call him 
back; and that it had further contacts from him between 18 and 24 October (when, on 24 
October, it was able to confirm which linked account needed to complete the verification 
process). It has apologised for the level of service Mr H received in these respects and 
confirmed payment to his bank account of £100 compensation for the inconvenience he was 
caused.
However, IITL stands by the annual verification process (and policy) that was engaged at the 
time and by the requirement upon Mr H to ensure the process was completed for his account 
(and for those linked to it in which the process had not been completed). It acknowledges 
that he would not have been able to see the secure message (with the information he 
requested on 11 October) that had been sent to his account on 18 October. However, it 
disputes any wrongdoing with regards to its system logging him out after 15 minutes of 
inactivity (inactivity defined to include typing secure messages, prior to them being sent 
and then registering as an activity). It says the log-out is for protection of client accounts and 
that notice is shown before it happens.
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded that it should not be upheld. He 
broadly agreed with the points made by IITL. He also made the following main findings:
The annual verification process was well founded, there is evidence that it resulted 
from an enhanced security process that was introduced in 2019 and of which clients 
were notified. 
 
Section 3.3 of the terms for the account confirmed there was no promise that online 
access would always be available.
Until Mr Hs contact on 18 October IITL had not been informed about his online 
access problem, and it was not aware of his trading pursuit at the time.
The option of accessing his account and conducting his targeted trading by 
telephone was available to him throughout the relevant period.
IITLs £100 compensation to him, for the inconvenience caused by its below standard 
service to him, is fair in the circumstances of the case.
IITL agreed with the investigators finding, but it made a point about the potential for other 
complaints related to the linked accounts  which the investigator addressed in response.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. His main comments were:He did not have online access to his account for a fortnight (from 11 October). It is 
incorrect to say IITL was not informed about this until 18 October. It was informed at 
the outset, and it was repeatedly informed when he spoke (every day) to the different 
IITL officials. It is also incorrect to say IITL was unaware of his trading pursuit at the 
time. He made nearly all the officials he spoke to aware of the pursuit and of the 
urgency attached to it. 
The problem he faced in the verification process for his account was that the 
platform/website button for confirm did not work. After logging in he was prompted 
to complete the process, he could not go further until doing so; all the fields for his 
personal details were blank; upon clicking the edit button the fields became 
populated with information which he could see were correct; however, because the 
confirm button did not work, he was unable to confirm they were correct and 
therefore unable to complete the process.
He accepts that telephone trading was an option, but it was not viable in the 
circumstances. He also accepts IITLs reference to history in which he had conducted 
trades online. However, in that history he had always concluded his analysis and 
preparations prior to the telephone calls, so during the calls he knew precisely what 
he wanted to trade and how. Circumstances were markedly different in the complaint 
matter. He had exhausted his cash in the gilt purchases up to 11 October and 
needed to liquidate assets in the account to buy more. That meant he needed to 
review the assets in the account to determine which to sell. In this context  
Goodness knows how long it would have taken to get a customer service 
representative to talk [him] through each account to put [him] in a position to place 
orders. Also, every day [he] expected IIT to resolve the issue imminently and kept 
logging on to see if they had done so. Furthermore  Every single trade placed over 
the phone is needlessly inefficient, with customer service personnel being instructed 
to repeat the details of the order several times, and it is clear that they often do not 
understand the product and have difficulty reading the abbreviations in the titles of 
stocks. On occasions when they say they have to refer to your global training team, a 
simple trade can take 40 minutes or more.
Interpretation of the terms about availability of online access must be meaningful and 
must be mindful of the minimum level of service to be expected from IITL and its 
platform. For instance, would the terms justify a platform access failure for all of three 
months (or more)? Regardless of the terms, online access to a trading platform 
account is a fundamental service requirement for an execution only broker. The point 
to note is that IITL did not use reasonable endeavours to ensure its platform was fit 
for purpose. The last official he spoke to solved the problem based on an idea she 
had, he does not know what she did but he was on hold for around a minute whilst 
she applied her idea and he considers it unlikely that the solution was complicated.
Throughout the relevant period he did all that was reasonable and possible, and that 
IITL suggested, to look into addressing the problem at his end  including changing 
his browser, using a set-up with a different operating system and installing a new 
app. None of these worked. 
He stands by his claims for more compensation with regards to the inconvenience 
caused to him, and redress for the lost trading opportunity. The former extends to the 
distress caused to his partner due to experiencing the distress he underwent at the 
time and the amount of his time and effort the matter consumed. For the latter, if the 
Ombudsman is minded to award redress for the lost trading opportunity he claims, 
information within his trading statements should be considered. They illustrate and support his submissions about his trading approach and about his claim.
With regards to the platform logging him out due to inactivity, he never received prior 
notice; it is unreasonable to expect him to have known that typing a secure message 
(prior to sending it) did not count as activity; and 15 minutes is an unusually short 
period of time for triggering such log-outs, compared to other platforms.  
Very recently, Mr H updated us to say he was experiencing another period of blocked online 
access to his account; that it was affecting his reinvestment of a substantial distribution he 
had received from a holding; and that whilst each reinvestment trade would have been done 
in around 30 seconds (and with greater certainty) online, each would take at least 20 
minutes by telephone.
The case was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I agree with some of the points he has made. 
IITLs final response to the complaint concedes that it was informed about his online access 
problem at the outset (on 11 October), as he asserts. A similar finding can be made with 
regards to IITLs awareness of his trading pursuit. Its final response notes that it offered him, 
during a call on 13 October, the opportunity to conduct his trades over the telephone at no 
extra charge (in recognition of the fact that he could not access online trading). This 
indicates that IITL was aware of his trading pursuit at the time, as he asserts.
Mr Hs description of the online access problem he faced over the relevant two weeks is not 
in dispute. The same appears to apply to his overall description of the service (or lack 
thereof) from IITL in response to the problem, including the different officials he had to speak 
to and the problem remaining unresolved until 24 October (or 25 October as call log 
evidence from IITL states). As such, I agree with his points in these respects too.
Furthermore, he makes a fair point about the fitness of IITLs platform in relation to the term 
for the account that limits or excludes its responsibility for online availability. It is reasonable 
to say that a mainly online trading platform service should be fit for its purpose. Section 3.3 
of the terms should be considered in this context. However, Mr Hs complaint is not about 
IITLs platform service being unfit for purpose. If he considers that it is, I am not persuaded 
that, on their own, the events of October 2022 and the most recent event he has shared with 
us are enough to draw such a grave and broad conclusion. 
The case is about the specific and isolated events in October 2022 leading to the 
inconvenience caused to Mr H and to his lost trading opportunity redress claim. IITL does 
not dispute the events and the inconvenience caused to him. Available evidence is that it 
has paid him £100 compensation in this respect. However, it disputes the lost trading 
opportunity redress claim because it says the verification process was justified and that Mr H 
was offered the opportunity to mitigate through telephone dealing, but did not do so. I 
address the redress claim first, because my findings for it set the basis for my findings on his 
claim for additional inconvenience compensation.
Measures associated with safe and secure online trading, like IITLs annual verification process, usually exist to benefit both firms and their clients. As such, I do not consider there 
is a basis to say the process was not justified and, to his credit, no such argument or 
suggestion appears to have been made by Mr H. Indeed, he has been clear in describing 
how he tried to complete the process but was prevented from doing so, and clear in 
describing the overall efforts he made to assist in troubleshooting the issue. 
However, on balance, I consider that his redress claim lacks merit. The trading pursuit he 
refers to was based on a strong conviction he had about the relevant gilt market(s), and that 
conviction resulted from what appears to have been competent analysis by him at the time. 
He had already begun the pursuit, successfully, with available cash. The online access 
problem then became an obstacle when he needed to liquidate additional cash for the 
purchases. I understand his explanation about having to review the assets in the account in 
order to make his liquidation decisions, but I do not accept the arguments he has made to 
justify his decision not to continue the pursuit through telephone dealing.
Mr H was/is an experienced investor. He would have known that investment and trading 
decisions are usually inherently time sensitive. He says he sought to take advantage of a 
once in a lifetime trading opportunity, in the targeted gilts, so it is reasonable to conclude that 
executing and completing his pursuit without undue delay would, and/or ought to, have been 
the priority. In this context, even if he viewed telephone dealing as a tedious and undesirable 
alternative to online trading the priority should have prevailed and he ought reasonably to 
have used this alternative to continue the trading he was conducting. There is evidence to 
suggest that IITL seemingly improved this alternative by offering him telephone dealing at no 
extra costs (due to the online access problem that it was yet to fix).
Without diluting IITLs responsibility in addressing the online access problem, Mr H had his 
own responsibility to mitigate (where he could) the effect of the problem upon his trading. On 
balance, I find that he could have done so through the telephone dealing option that was 
available and offered to him. He did not do that. I am not persuaded by the arguments he 
has made to justify that decision. Even if each telephone trade was likely to take longer than 
online trading  in terms of considering and instructing the liquidation trade and then doing 
the same for the purchase trade  it nevertheless would have ensured that his targeted 
trading continued, and was completed. Even if he initially expected the online access 
problem to be promptly resolved, by 13 October when IITL offered him the telephone dealing 
alternative he was already in his third day in the matter (with, it appears, no meaningful 
prospect of an imminent solution). In these circumstances he ought reasonably to have used 
telephone dealing as a form of mitigation.
The conclusion that follows from the above is that Mr Hs targeted trading could and should 
have been conducted and completed, despite the online access problem, but that did not 
happen because he decided not to use telephone dealing. For the reasons given above I do 
not consider that his decision was reasonable in the circumstances. This means IITL (with 
regards to the online access problem and its inability, until 24 October, to solve it) did not 
cause the lost trading opportunity that he claims. Instead, the online access problem caused 
a slight obstacle and brief delay in his trading pursuit, but his decision not to conduct the 
trading over the telephone is what mainly lost him the opportunity. 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Hs redress claim.
For the same reasons, I am not persuaded by his claim for additional inconvenience 
compensation. I appreciate that, as a matter of fact, his experience over the relevant two 
weeks consumed his time and effort, and caused him notable inconvenience. However, that 
experience would have been significantly reduced if Mr H had mitigated his position as 
described above. Had he done that, it is possible (or even probable) that he would still have 
continued to engage with IITL to have the online access problem fixed, but there would have been significantly less inconvenience and distress in doing so because the urgent trading he 
was pursuing would have been conducted and completed by telephone. As such, in the 
circumstances of his case and for the net inconvenience caused to him (discounting the 
inconvenience he would have avoided had he mitigated), I consider that the £100 
compensation he has received is broadly fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman