DRN-3320037
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about advice they received from St James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (St Jamess).
What happened
In summary Mrs C and Mr C met and adviser from St Jamess in 2019 as they were selling 
their home and business to buy a guesthouse. At that time a mortgage hadnt been arranged 
but the adviser gave three quotes for different types and levels of cover. 
Subsequently a mortgage was arranged, and Mrs C and Mr C contacted the adviser to put in 
place £50,000 critical illness cover. Just over a year later, Mrs C was unfortunately 
diagnosed with a critical illness and claimed on the policy provided.
When they originally sought advice, Mrs C and Mr C had an existing life policy in place which 
they had purchased alongside their previous mortgage. This provided cover on a decreasing 
term basis and was due to end in mid 2022. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld as she 
didnt find that the adviser had given inadequate advice. Mr C appealed on behalf of himself 
and Mrs C. He maintained that he was badly advised with regard to life cover. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the facts are not in dispute Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint 
in far less detail than the parties. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
St Jamess adviser had to ensure that any policy recommended was suitable for Mrs and Mr 
Cs needs. Having considered all the circumstances Im satisfied that the recommendation 
was fair and so I dont uphold this complaint. I recognise that Mrs and Mr C will be very 
disappointed by my decision and Im sorry Im not able to bring more welcome news. 
The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
The adviser provided Mrs C and Mr C with three quotes based on the discussion they had 
had with him and taking into account the information provided at the time. At this stage a 
mortgage hadnt been confirmed. But the adviser wrote:
If you were borrowing £150,000 over 12 years on a joint life basis for decreasing life cover, 
you are looking at circa £23pm.
If you include critical illness cover for the full loan amount this increases the premium to circa
£120pm.
A compromise option is £50,000 level critical illness cover in joint names to age 65 circa 
£43pm.
Im satisfied that this provided a range of suitable options. In fact Mrs C and Mr C later 
borrowed a larger sum over 20 years, so the first option wouldnt have been suitable. But the 
adviser hadnt been updated and based the recommendation on the earlier conversations. 
This was reasonable.
Once the mortgage had been confirmed, but shortly before completion Mr C contacted the 
adviser to put in place the third option  - the critical illness cover. This he did. Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for St Jamess to put this policy in place. I dont find it was incumbent 
on the adviser to make further enquiries at this stage.
I note that the level of critical illness cover, £50,000, was based on Mr Cs estimate of one 
years net salary for the business. It was agreed this would give Mr C enough time to 
manage work or bring in help for the business in the event Mrs C or Mr C fell ill. The adviser 
noted that he had looked at a higher sum insured but the costs were excessive. Additionally 
it took into account that Mrs C and Mr C would look to sell the business if this happened. The 
term accorded with the length of time they indicated that they thought theyd run the 
business for. So specifically with regard to this policy, Im satisfied that this recommendation 
was suitable and based specifically on the information that the adviser had been given.
Mrs and Mr C had a life policy in place which would finish in the summer of 2022 when they 
planned to take out a new policy. Mr C feels that he should have been advised to cancel this 
policy and that his plan to review in 2022 was a bad one, but I dont agree. The adviser 
wasnt provided with details of the cover but did provide a suitable recommendation based 
on the details he had been given. Life cover was in place and an option including life cover 
was offered. Mrs and Mr C didnt take that option up and I dont find that it was for the 
adviser to do more than he did in terms of giving them suitable options to choose from.
Mr C also complains that a greater emphasis was placed on pension requirements rather 
than protection needs. However there is no evidence before me that this is so and I note that 
this was the first thing addressed in his written correspondence of October 2019.
Having carefully considered all the circumstances and the information given to the adviser at 
the time, I dont find that the advice he gave was unsuitable or that he treated Mrs C and Mr 
C unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman