DRN-2885665
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) denied his claims under the 
direct debit guarantee scheme which he feels they didnt have authority to do.
What happened
In early December 2020, Mr C wrote to Halifax with a list of around 163 payments he wanted 
refunded under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme (the scheme). He said all the 
companies listed were Municipal Securities Dealers had failed to fulfil their contracts so he 
wanted his payments refunded  and he was aware this may be challenged. However, he 
said Halifax were required under the scheme to follow its regulations and refund the 
payments. 
When he didnt receive a response, he wrote to the Halifax again at the end of December 
repeating his request. Shortly after the letter was received, Halifax called Mr C to ask about 
the errors he felt had taken place with the companies hed asked for the payments to be 
refunded from. 
Mr C was unhappy with Halifaxs actions, so he wrote to them again. He said he was 
unhappy hed been asked why there was an error with the payments as this wasnt part of 
the rules Halifax should be following. He said Halifax were obligated under the scheme to 
refund the payments asked they do so within five working days. 
In early January, Halifax wrote to Mr C and said they were declining his refund requests. 
They said the scheme was there to protect customers if an error had taken place with the 
direct debit collection, and in this case, they felt this was an issue between Mr C and the 
respective companies. 
Mr C didnt agree so he made a complaint. He said he felt the person whod called him was 
working from home and therefore his data wasnt secure. Mr C said he shouldnt have been 
asked the questions about the returned payments, and the branch manager whod declined 
his request had no right to do so and had acted outside of the scheme rules. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. They said based on the information they had about 
Mr Cs complaint, it didnt match the criteria required for them to raise a dispute under the 
scheme. So they suggested Mr C contact the companies he had the agreements with 
directly. 
Halifax also didnt agree hed received poor customer service from the branch. As they said 
they hadnt received Mr Cs original letter listing the payments he wanted to use the scheme 
for, and the second letter hadnt included this information. Mr C didnt agree and asked this 
service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought Mr C had a 
contractual dispute with the billing organisations not the payments which had been made. So 
the scheme couldnt be used to resolve this. She also thought it was fair of Halifax to ask Mr 
C questions to understand more about the errors he believed had taken place. And based on 
what shed seen, she felt it was reasonable Halifax hadnt applied Mr Cs claim through the 
scheme. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt told us he had a dispute with the organisations hes 
made payments to, he just felt there was an error and therefore under the scheme Halifax 
was obligated to return the payments. He felt Halifax had acted outside of the scheme and 
should have just refunded the payments as hed said there was an error and shouldnt have 
asked questions as they had no authority to do so under the scheme. 
Mr C also felt it was irrelevant if Halifax were acting in his interests should the billing 
organisations demand payment  as this wasnt their decision to make under the scheme. 
So he asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint and the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Im conscious of the way Mr C has interpreted the scheme, and I acknowledge his reasons 
for believing Halifax should follow the rules in the way he believes. However, I need to 
consider whether the scheme was intended to be used in the way Mr C wishes it to be.
The scheme enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from their bank in 
certain  but not all circumstances. Its purpose is to provide protection to customers who 
have provided businesses (originators) with access to their accounts in order to collect 
money, usually for an agreed service. And most errors in payments are usually identified 
fairly quickly. 
Mr Cs payments to the various companies he wanted payments refunded for are covered by 
the direct debit guarantee. This means that customers are entitled to a full and immediate 
refund from their bank if an error is made in the payment of the direct debit. For instance, if 
a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected.. The direct debit 
guarantee scheme says it cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and 
the billing organisation. 
The direct debit guarantee allows account holders to receive an immediate refund from their 
bank in certain but not all circumstances. The right to a refund isnt automatic or absolute  
despite Mr Cs opinion on this. 
Mr C wanted to claim several years worth of direct debit payments to these companies. And 
he had been making regular payments to them during this time which leads me to question 
why he decided to dispute the payments after so much time had passed. Given the historic 
nature of Mr Cs claim, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to ask Mr C for further details to 
establish if they had valid grounds to apply the guarantee. And I dont agree with Mr Cs 
reasoning that Halifax have acted outside of the scheme rules by doing so. 
Mr C told Halifax his reasons for wanting these direct debit payments returned. But based on 
the information Mr C had provided, Halifax felt this was a dispute between Mr C and the 
various companies. So they declined his request for the refund of the payments.
I havent seen any evidence provided by Mr C to Halifax to support his claim that an error 
took place when these payments were taken. And given the volume of payments, across the number of companies Mr C has requested the refund for, Im not persuaded all these 
companies made errors at the same time. I can only decide here whether Halifax dealt with 
Mr Cs request fairly and reasonably  and based on the evidence Ive seen from both 
parties, I think they did.
I recognise that Mr C feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Halifax have acted reasonably and in line with the 
scheme rule. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman