DRN-2899520
The complaint
Mr B complains Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, had unfairly restricted access 
to his accounts. And despite providing information in line with its requirements, Virgin Money 
didnt lift the restrictions. Mr B also complains hes been discriminated against and has lost 
out financially.  
To keep matters simple, I will refer to Virgin in the rest of my decision. 
To put things right, Mr B wants Virgin to pay him compensation for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused him. 
What happened
Mr B opened three accounts with Virgin in 2016. In November 2019, Mr B told Virgin of his 
change of address. Virgin updated its records accordingly.  
Around this time in November 2019, Mr B applied for another savings account. This account 
had a different nominated bank account to that of the three previous accounts - albeit with 
the same third-party bank. Virgin asked Mr B for details to verify his new nominated account. 
After briefly being opened, Virgin wrote to Mr B and explained it was unable to proceed with 
his application for the new account any further. Virgin explained any funds in this account will 
be returned to where they came from.   
Virgin placed restrictions on all three of Mr Bs remaining accounts. 
Virgin asked Mr B to provide it with proof of his identity and proof of address for the previous 
three years. To facilitate this request, Virgin called Mr B. The call was picked up by someone 
acquainted with Mr B. 
Between November and December 2019, Mr B made several trips to a Virgin branch to hand 
it information as part of what it had requested. Virgin told Mr B this wasnt sufficient for its 
review, and therefore for the restrictions on his account to be lifted.    
Unhappy with Virgins actions Mr B complained. In summary, Virgin said the following in its 
final response: 
Virgin is required to verify the identity of new customers, and re-verify the identity of 
its existing customers
Virgin hasnt done anything wrong by asking further information from Mr B  and it 
can ask for further information anytime 
In accordance with its terms and conditions, Virgin can restrict an account if it has 
any concerns. 
Virgin apologised if it has taken longer than expected for it to review any information 
Mr B had provided.
Given Mr Bs concerns regarding the Financial Services Compensation Schemes 
(FSCS) protection limit, and the interest rate hes receiving whilst the accounts 
remain restricted, Virgin can arrange for the accounts to be closed. If so, Virgin can 
validate his nominated account and then process any payment.
If Mr B wishes to keep his accounts with Virgin, he should provide it with a utility or 
council tax bill showing his registered address for the last three years  a document 
for each year.   
Dissatisfied with Virgins answer, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. 
Before the complaint was picked up by one of our investigators, Mr B told Virgin he was 
concerned funds held in one of his accounts were above the FSCS protected limited. Virgin 
told Mr B that if he could verify the nominated account where the funds are to be sent, it 
would be happy to release them. 
Mr B then sent Virgin details of his third-party bank. Satisfied with this, Virgin sent £35,000 to 
the nominated account in April 2020. 
The restrictions on Mr Bs accounts were lifted in October 2020. 
One of our investigators then looked into Mr Bs complaint and they didnt recommend it be 
upheld. In summary they said: 
Virgin said it had concerns about Mr Bs residency in 2016 when the accounts were 
opened. But it didnt look into this any further at that point. 
Virgin didnt make an error when applying restrictions to Mr Bs accounts. It had 
concerns about Mr Bs eligibility for the accounts from 2016. Namely, Mr B needed to 
be a permanent UK resident for tax purposes. Virgins position on this changed in 
November 2019, resulting in it asking for Mr B to verify the matter. 
Mr B was able to close his accounts at anytime and so was able to access his funds. 
He couldnt however transfer funds between his Virgin accounts, nor did he have 
online access due to the restrictions placed on him. But Virgin was entitled to review 
the accounts. And did so in line with its procedures which help it meet its regulatory 
and legal obligations.  Nationwide also acted in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. 
After considering Mr Bs argument that he had provided enough information, Virgin 
had not acted unreasonably by asking Mr B to provide evidence of his residence for 
the previous three years.  
Mr B hadnt been discriminated against as Virgins requests for further information 
werent unreasonable  nor was he asked to do something different to someone else.   
Mr B says hes lost out on higher interest, and investment opportunity because of the 
restrictions applied. But the terms of the accounts say they are variable and can be 
changed by Virgin at any time; Virgin wanted to verify his residency and the 
destination account; and Mr B could have chosen to close his accounts and invest 
them elsewhere  something he was aware of in January 2020. 
Mr B was unhappy with what our investigator said. Id like to assure Mr B that even if I dont set out in explicit detail all the points hes made, both previously and in response to our 
investigators opinion, I have carefully considered everything hes said. 
I will of course summarise the key points hes made in response to what our investigator 
said: 
Virgin did not disclose to him it had concerns about his eligibility in 2016 when 
opening the accounts. This amounts to an omission on its part. And despite its 
concerns, it was happy to take a substantive deposit from him.
Had Virgin expressed its concerns to Mr B in 2016, he would have either provided 
additional information to allay any concerns; or moved his funds to an alternative 
financial institution. 
So Virgin have failed to act on its concerns in 2016. And this in turn led Mr B to 
believe his investments were safe and on firm ground.  
This omission in turn has created this situation and led to him suffering financial loss. 
As such Virgin has not acted in good faith. 
Mr B proposes Virgin pay him £12,000 as fair compensation for the stress, time 
consumed, and funds lost due because of the way Virgin have handled the matter.   
Virgins unsubstantiated misgivings and failure to act in 2016 prove it acted unlawfully 
and illegally.
As Mr B remains unhappy, it follows I must now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I now this will disappoint 
Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
Virgin has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is 
opened.
To comply with its obligations Virgin may need to review an account and/or restrict its
customers access. If Virgin didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Virgin is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Virgin to restrict Mr Bs account and ask him for information relating to proving his identity 
and for him to show proof of his residency for the three years previous. Ive also closely 
reviewed Virgins terms and conditions for these types of accounts. And having done that, 
Im satisfied it has acted in line with them.  
I say that because a condition of the accounts is that Mr B lives in the UK and does so for 
tax purposes. Mr B gave Virgin a new nominated account to send money to. This was still 
with the same third-party bank Mr B had used before, but it was an altogether new account. Because of this change, Virgin needed to verify the new account in line with its internal 
processes to safeguard its customers. 
As part of communicating this request, Virgin attempted to call Mr B on the number he had 
previously given it. Virgin have given me a copy of a call and Ive listened to this carefully. 
The call is not picked up by Mr B, but by someone he knows. They explain Mr B uses their 
number as a UK contact for banks and other bills as he lives abroad. 
This in turn alerted Virgin to the prospect Mr B may not be resident in the UK for tax 
purposes. And as Ive already said, this is a criterion contained in the terms to be eligible for 
the accounts. So I can understand why Virgin wanted to see the evidence it asked of Mr B. 
I note Mr B says his acquaintance was mistaken on the phone call. To be clear, Im not 
making a finding that Mr B did or didnt live in the UK. But I think with the information 
presented to Virgin it had a reasonable basis, and therefore valid concerns, to ask Mr B for 
the information it did. 
Mr B says he has more than adequately provided this information to Virgin. And he cannot 
provide historical records linked to a residence where he no longer has any standing. 
Ive looked at the information Mr B sent to Virgin. I note there isnt any meaningful dispute 
with what Mr B sent in as proof of identity  although that might not have been the starting 
position. But Virgin wasnt satisfied with what Mr B gave it as proof of three years address 
history. From what Ive seen Mr B doesnt have individual and separate proof to show for 
each year Virgins request covers; to my mind thats 2019, 2018 and 2017. 
Mr B argues hes moved during that period and so cant be expected to get that information 
in the manner Virgin want it. He also argues that one of the letters he has provided, although 
dated in 2020, should be enough to show hes been resident in the UK for three years as it 
indicates him getting a pension income from 2016. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether Virgin have acted fairly and reasonably here. And I 
think it has. I accept getting this information has proved problematic for Mr B, but Virgin had 
valid concerns in 2019 that Mr B may not be eligible for the accounts he holds with it. So Im 
satisfied it needed to see persuasive and compelling evidence that wasnt the case. Im also 
persuaded asking for specific types of documents, for each year since the accounts were 
opened, is a reasonable measure to meet that aim.  
So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Mr B inconvenience, I cant say
Virgin treated him unfairly when it blocked his accounts and asked him to provide evidence 
to alleviate its concerns.
Mr B says as Virgin had concerns about his eligibility in 2016, when opening the accounts, 
this amounts to an omission on its part. And had Virgin expressed its concerns to Mr B in 
2016, he would have either provided additional information to allay any concerns; or moved 
his funds to an alternative financial institution. So Virgin have failed to act on its concerns, 
which in turn led Mr B to believe his investments were safe and on firm ground.  
I can understand why Mr B has said this, given our investigator told him Virgin had concerns 
which it didnt follow up on when the accounts were opened. Given the time that has passed, 
Virgin cant be sure why nothing more was done at that stage. 
But having given this some thought, Im not persuaded it has a bearing on the outcome of 
this complaint. I say that because Virgin took the action of restricting and asking Mr B for 
evidence of his address history, because of what happened in 2019. Something altogether new and different happened in 2019 which concerned Virgin. So Im 
persuaded, even without the residual concerns Virgin had at inception, what happened in 
2019 was enough in of itself for Virgin to have taken the course of action it did. 
It follows that Im persuaded, on balance, Virgin would have acted in the way it did in 2019 
regardless of its concerns when the accounts were opened.  
Mr B says the way Virgin have treated him is discriminatory. This is a serious allegation, so 
Ive looked very closely at all the information I have. Having done that Im not persuaded 
Virgin have treated Mr B any different because of a protected characteristic, or to someone 
else. As Ive already said, by asking for the information it has, Virgin was fulfilling its 
regulatory obligations and acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Lastly, Mr B says hes lost out on better interest rates and the opportunity to invest his 
money elsewhere. But I note Virgin gave Mr B the option to close and transfer his funds in its 
final response in January 2020. Mr B also confirms this with a Virgin agent on a call which 
took place in early February 2020. 
So Mr B could have taken his money and invested elsewhere. 
I note Mr Bs account interest rates became the subject of Virgins variable rates  lower 
than what he previously had  during the period of the restrictions. But this was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account  and in any case, Virgin had a duty to mitigate 
against the possibility Mr B wasnt resident in the UK given its concerns.
Mr B has said Virgin have acted unlawfully and illegally. I havent seen anything that makes 
me think thats the case, and thats a matter best suited for a court to decide.   
So, after weighing everything up, and to surmise, Im satisfied Virgin have acted fairly and 
reasonably by restricting Mr Bs access to his accounts and requesting documents to 
validate his address history and identity. I also dont think, on balance, that any likely 
omission in 2016 had a bearing on the actions it took three years later. And, I dont find 
Virgin discriminated against Mr B. 
It follows that I wont be directing Virgin to award Mr B any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
