DRN-4493862
The complaint
Mr W1 and Mr W2, on behalf of Mrs W, complain about the difficulties experienced 
registering a Power of Attorney (POA) document, following the opening of a fixed rate bond 
with Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr W1, Mrs Ws son, opened a fixed rate bond account online with 
Nationwide, in Mrs Ws name. As he was acting as an Attorney for Mrs W, once hed opened 
the account, on 24 October 2022 he went into a Nationwide branch to deposit a cheque and 
to provide them with a copy of the POA, completed Nationwide POA forms and identity 
documents. He was told the POA team would need to review the documents and would be in 
touch within two weeks. 
On 16 November 2022, the POA team wrote to Mr W1, asking for his brother, Mr W2, to also 
sign the form as the POA said that the attorneys must act jointly. Mr W1 disputed this, saying 
that Mrs Ws intent was to allow them to act jointly and severally  and that other firms have 
allowed them to act independently of each other. He also provided them with access to the 
online version of the POA.
There was further correspondence between the parties, including Mr W1 writing to the CEO 
of Nationwide asking her to assist. On 6 December 2022 Mr W2 sent a signed form to 
Nationwide to speed the process along, though both he and Mr W1 maintained their 
disagreement with Nationwides approach. On 22 December 2022 Nationwide confirmed that 
they had registered the POA, though they were waiting on guidance from the Office of the 
Public Guardian about how they should interpret the wording on both the paper copy of the 
POA and that available online.
On 10 January 2023 Nationwide wrote to Mr W1 asking for a new access code for the online 
POA. On 15 January 2023 Mr W2 wrote to Nationwide as he hadnt received any 
confirmation of receipt of his letter of 6 December 2022. 
Mr W1 complained about Nationwides handling of this, and Nationwide offered £100 
compensation for the time it had taken them to initially review the documents. However, they 
maintained they hadnt done anything wrong in interpreting the POA documents. As he 
remained unhappy Mr W1 brought the complaint to our service and said he was unhappy 
that:
Nationwide hadnt sent a written confirmation of the fixed rate bond, setting out the 
amount invested, expected maturity date or interest rate. 
Nationwide should have accepted the POA without the need for Mr W2 to be 
involved, as other firms have.
He felt the CEO ought to have replied directly rather than passing his 
correspondence to the complaints team. He wanted a personal apology from the 
CEO regarding the situation. 
The 10 January 2022 letter contradicted what hed previously been told. 
Neither he nor Mr W2 had received confirmation of whether Nationwide would accept 
instructions from just one of them  or whether both would be needed  when the 
bond matures. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and upheld it. She found:
The service provided by Nationwide caused inconvenience to Mr W1 and Mr W2, on 
Mrs Ws behalf, and she recommended that Nationwide pay £250 total 
compensation. 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 deserved clarity over whether Nationwide would require them to 
act jointly or jointly and severally and so she said Nationwide should clarify this in 
writing to Mr W1 and Mr W2.
Nationwide should write to Mr W1 to set out the details of the bond, as he didnt have 
online access to that information. 
Nationwide didnt act unreasonably in interpreting the POA documents in the way 
they did, so she found it was fine for them to ask Mr W2 to be involved. 
That Mr W1 and Mr W2 could speak to the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) 
about having the POA clarified. 
She didnt think a reasonable remedy was to recommend that the CEO of Nationwide 
write an apology to Mr W1. 
Nationwide agreed with the investigators opinion. Mr W1 didnt agree, in summary because 
he felt both the investigator and Nationwide were wrong about the POA; that he feels the 
compensation isnt enough; he insists on a letter from the CEO of Nationwide; that the POA 
cannot now be altered, so it was wrong to suggest he approach the OPG. As the investigator 
wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for largely the same reasons. Ive 
considered the complaint points separately below, for clarity. Mr W1 has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he and Mr W2 wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.  
Has Nationwide interpreted the POA in a fair and reasonable manner?
The lasting POA that Mrs W completed, originally appointed her husband as her sole 
attorney, in Section 2 of the POA document. In Section 4, Mrs W named Mr W1 and Mr W2 
as replacement attorneys, who would step in when the sole attorney was no longer able to 
act, as happened here in 2021 when Mrs Ws husband sadly passed away. 
Section 3 of the form sets out how the original attorney could act. There were four options: 
Jointly and severally
Jointly
Jointly for some decisions, jointly and severally for other decisions
Lastly, Mrs W could tick to indicate that she was only appointing one attorneyMrs W marked the option of jointly and severally. In Section 4, where Mrs W entered Mr W1 
and Mr W2s details as replacement attorneys, the form explains that replacement attorneys 
would not act in the same way that the original attorney(s) could act. It states:
If theres more than one replacement attorney, they will all step in at once. If they fully 
replace your original attorney(s) at once, they will usually act jointly. You can change some 
aspects of this, but most people dont You should consider taking legal advice is you want 
to change when or how your replacement attorneys act. 
There is then a box that can be ticked  which Mrs W left blank  that says 
I want to change when or how my attorneys can act (optional). Use Continuation sheet 2.
Mr W1 has argued that when read as a whole, the POA shows that in ticking jointly and 
severally in section 3, Mrs Ws intent was to allow her replacement attorneys to act jointly 
and severally. 
Having reviewed this form in full, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to interpret 
the form differently to the way Mr W1 asked them to. Im satisfied that when the form is read 
as a whole, its clear that replacement attorneys do not automatically act in the same way as 
that chosen for the original attorneys. 
I accept that logically Section 3 was completed incorrectly by Mrs W, as she was only 
appointing one attorney, and so she should have chosen the option to reflect that situation. 
She may have done this as a mistake, or because she thought it referred to the replacement 
attorneys (as Mr W1 has argued), or for some other reason. However, Nationwide cant be 
sure of her intent, especially in light of the clear information given in Section 4 about 
replacement attorneys.    
Nationwide have a duty of care towards Mrs W and given the legal nature of this document, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for them to interpret the document as saying that Mr W1 and 
Mr W2 could only act jointly, and not severally. As a result, I dont think they were wrong to 
ask Mr W2 to also complete the paperwork. 
Ive also considered the online version of the POA. This says:
How decisions are made: Decisions are made by one attorney
The OPG has issued guidance on the gov.uk website about the online POA documents. It 
gives an example of a POA that is set up with two attorneys who can act jointly and severally 
and under the How decisions are made section it says:
Attorneys can make decisions jointly (together) and severally (separately)
There is another example showing a POA set up with one attorney only, and in the same 
section it says: 
Decisions are made by one attorney 
So, the online version of the POA doesnt say that Mr W1 and Mr W2 can act jointly and 
severally, because the wording displayed in the relevant section doesnt match that given in 
the examples from the OPG. I consider this further supports Nationwides actions in this 
case.Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in disagreeing with Mr W1s 
interpretation of the POA and in asking Mr W2 to be involved in the account. 
The service Nationwide provided
 
Having reviewed the timeline of events, I agree the service Nationwide provided caused 
unnecessary inconvenience here in the following ways:
They didnt meet their own timescales during their initial review of the POA 
documents  it took around a week longer than it should have.
They didnt acknowledge receipt of Mr W2s documents or tell him that hed been 
registered as an attorney on the account.
They didnt send Mr W1 written confirmation of the account details, despite his 
requests for this.
On 10 January 2023 they told Mr W1 that they needed further access to the LPA 
when this wasnt needed.
Ive considered whether the way Nationwide has offered to put these service issues right is 
fair and reasonable. 
I note that in her opinion letter, the investigator said that Nationwide should write to Mr W1 
and Mr W2 to tell them the account details and to confirm whether they would both need to 
be involved upon the maturity of the account. The account has now matured, and the 
maturity value was paid out. So, Im satisfied that these two letters no longer need to be 
sent.
Nationwide has agreed to pay £250 for the inconvenience theyve caused and I think this is 
fair. Im satisfied it reflects the above errors Ive identified and the additional time, effort and 
confusion theyve caused by not communicating clearly regarding the account. 
Mr W1 has said that to resolve the complaint hed like the CEO of Nationwide to write a 
personal apology. I can see that Nationwide did apologise when they responded to Mr W1s 
complaint. In agreeing to pay compensation they are admitting wrongdoing. Im conscious 
that a CEOs responsibility is to oversee the entire company  and Nationwide has chosen to 
establish a team that specifically handles complaints, rather than the CEO answering them, 
which it is entitled to do. Im glad to see that the complaint team has already apologised. For 
those reasons, I dont think it would be proportionate to direct that a specific person within 
Nationwide also apologises to Mr W1 and Mr W2. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W1 as he feels strongly that 
Nationwide should do more to put things right. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I think 
the offer theyve made is fair and reasonable here. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £250 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2, 
on Mrs Ws behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024. 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman