DRN-3726586
The complaint
This complaints about mortgage advice that Ms M received from Connells Limited when 
relocating to a different part of the country. Shes unhappy that when she asked if it would be 
possible to keep her existing property and let it out rather than sell, Connells advisor lied 
and wrongly advised her that her lender wouldnt allow it.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 6 September 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms M and Connells. So I 
dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Ms M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Before the events that gave rise to the complaint, Ms M had her own home, which Ill 
call 16O, with a residential mortgage and a Help to Buy (HTB) loan. Her partner also 
had a property, with mortgage, of his own. Ms M wanted to move to live with her 
partner, and they asked Connells to arrange a joint mortgage for the purchase of a 
property in the new location, which Ill call 15H. At this stage, Ms M planned to sell 
16O, and repay the existing mortgage and HTB loan. 
On 2 September 2021, Ms M asked Connells advisor if it might be possible to keep 
16O and rent it out, but without repaying the HTP; the advisor said that in his 
experience, the HTB provider wouldnt permit this, and recommended Ms M proceed 
as first intended. On 6 September 2021, a lender Ill call H offered Ms M and her 
partner a mortgage of £238,500 for her purchase of 15H. 
Ms M subsequently asked again about keeping 16O to rent out, but this time by 
re-mortgaging it onto a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage and paying off the HTB loan as 
well. She and the Connells advisor had a long and detailed conversation about this 
on 29 September 2021, and that conversation has become the focus of the 
complaint. Briefly, at this stage, the advisor told Ms M that H was happy to lend 
£238,500 with her selling 16O and her partner keeping his property, but that if she 
also kept 16O and re-mortgaged it onto a BTL, the new mortgage for 15H would be 
reduced to £205,000.
Ms M proceeded with the sale and purchase as originally planned but then came to 
regret having sold 16O; she complained, saying that it would have been possible to 
secure a BTL mortgage on 16O, and a residential mortgage on 15H for the amount 
she and her partner needed. Ms M says that Connells advisor lied to her about 
speaking to H before their conversation on 29 September 2021. Shes provided a 
letter from H which confirms it received no phone call from Connells advisor in the 
relevant time period.
Connells rejected the complaint, and when it was referred to this service, our 
investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. Ms M asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules 
require me to reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to 
have happened on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the 
courts use in civil cases.
I set out my findings in this provisional decision, in order that both parties have the 
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
This case is simpler than its been made to look; I say that because the outcome of it 
turns on two core questions; these are:
whether, in the conversation of 29 September 2021, Connells advisor gave Ms M 
incorrect advice that led to her making the wrong decision; and
whether, in that same conversation, the advisor falsely claimed to have spoken to 
H on the telephone before giving the advice he gave.
Ill deal with the second question first. Ms Ms claim that the advisor lied is quite 
specific; she says he told her he had phoned H when there is clear evidence from H 
that he did not. Thats the basis on which Ms M is adamant the advisor lied to her.
First of all, Ive listened to a conversation they had on 27 September 2021 in which 
Ms M first sets out her wish to keep 16O. The advisor says he will do some digging 
and find out the possibilities regarding retaining 16O. He also says during that call 
that he cannot give advice on Ms Ms liability for Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) if she 
keeps 16O. Ive then listened to the 29 September 2021 conversation to establish 
exactly what the advisor said about contact with H.
There are several occasions during the 29 September 2021 where Connells advisor 
recounts what H has said to him about the viability of the new mortgage if the existing 
property is retained. But at no time during that call does the advisor specifically say 
he has called H by phone, as Ms M is claiming. I can understand entirely why she 
might have inferred that he had, and why she might have come to think hed lied 
once she discovered there hadnt been a call. But the advisor didnt lie to Ms M because, very simply, he never told her in the 27 September 2021 call that he would 
phone H, and he never told in the 29 September 2021 call that he had.
Nor do I think the advisor misled Ms M into making the inference she did when he 
spoke about what H had told him. There are many different ways a mortgage advisor 
can interact with a lender, including live chat, or even simply inputting information into 
an on-line application portal and noting the response the portal provides.
I appreciate this conclusion wont sit well with Ms M; I can see from her emails that 
her belief that the advisor lied to her has taken on a very high level of importance to 
her. But I have to go where the evidence takes me and here, for the reasons Ive set 
out, the evidence doesnt allow me to find that she was lied to. I now turn to the other 
issue; the advice Connells advisor gave Ms M in the 29 September 2021 phone call 
and the decision she made in reliance on it.
The starting point for me here is that up until September 2021, Ms M had been 
intending to sell 16O. The sale was well-advanced and everything was in place for 
completion to take place on or before 30 September 2021, before the governments 
SDLT holiday ended. Ms M had paused that to find out if keeping 16O was feasible, 
and it is that context that I have considered the advice she received during the 
29 September 2021.
The advisor started by saying that the mortgage to buy 15H would work with just 
Ms Ms partner keeping his existing property but not, at least immediately, with Ms M 
also keeping hers. To explain why, he said that it was late in the day and that there 
was, at this stage, no proof of the likely rental income from 16O, hence the reduced 
lending of £205,000 which wouldnt be enough to buy 15H. He then said: to do 
things any differently [that is, without selling 16O] theyd have to start again. The 
conversation then moves to what would be involved in starting again.
The advisor explained that Ms M would have to take 16O off the market, set up a 
tenancy agreement and find a source of funds to repay the existing mortgage and 
HTB loan. He said that getting agreement from H might be doable but would take 
time, and he would need to input the likely rental income to the new application, 
which he couldnt do unless and until he had proof of it. Ms M asked how difficult it 
would be to achieve if they did start again; the advisor said he wouldnt know until he 
started, saying specifically Im not going to give you any promises cos [sic] I just 
dont know. 
He highlighted the key problem as being the HTB loan, and finding a BTL lender, 
including possibly H, that was willing to lend Ms M enough to repay that as well as 
the existing mortgage. His first instinct was to say it wasnt possible, but he was 
willing to find out. However, in the time that would take, Ms M would risk losing her 
purchase of 15H. He understood that Ms M wanted to keep 16O but: in the scheme 
of things, that might not be possible. 
The adviser said he wasnt trying to put Ms M off or commit her either way, but was 
playing devils advocate. BTL lenders generally wouldnt expect to see an HTB loan 
in place, and whilst there might be one willing to go ahead, its likely Ms M would be 
charged more. He apologised for telling Ms M something she didnt want to hear, but 
said he didnt want to risk her being in a worse situation, such as losing 15H, as a 
result of him sugar-coating things.
The adviser and Ms M continued to go over the situation and re-examine the 
possibilities, but essentially kept coming back to the same situation; that is, that whilst re-mortgaging 16O onto a BTL and repaying the HTB might be possible, there 
no guarantee of success, it would take a lot of time and Ms M risked losing her 
purchase of 15H whilst they found out. Ive found nothing inappropriate or inaccurate 
in anything the advisor told Ms M during that conversation. The information and 
advice he gave Ms M was comprehensive, balanced and accurate, and he was open, 
honest and compassionate in the way he gave it. 
At the end of that process, Ms M made the decision to continue with the sale of 16O 
and purchase of 15H as intended. Clearly, Ms M has since come to regret that 
decision, and now wishes she had found a way to retain 16O. Thats her prerogative, 
and entirely understandable. But I rather get the impression that in the time since, 
Ms M has also come to think that getting a BTL mortgage to allow her to keep 16O 
would have been much easier that the advisor led her to believe. 
That too is her prerogative, but without wishing to be unkind, I think Ms M has 
convinced herself into believing something that suits her purpose without there being 
any substantive evidence to support that belief. The reality, however unwelcome or 
unpalatable she might find it, is that Ms Ms current position is not down to any act or 
omission, or shortcoming in the information and advice given to her by Connells. Her 
own comment, towards the end of the call was: Its too tight, isnt it?. That, in my 
view, was Ms Ms acceptance that she had more to lose that gain by starting again at 
such a late stage.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from Ms Ms submissions the intensity with 
which she has brought the complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost 
everything Connells did (or didnt do). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Ms M has been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that 
means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is 
fair, reasonable and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also 
means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes 
up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Ms M doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Connells will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Ms Ms right to take legal action against Connells 
over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it.
I initially gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; at Ms Ms request, 
that was extended to three weeks. That time has now passed. Connells acknowledged 
receipt of the provisional decision but didnt add any substantive comment. Ms M replied with 
a challenge to my findings; this was comprised of a reiteration of existing points, as well as 
some new ones, supported by further comment from the lender H and from another 
mortgage broking firm, which Ill refer to as I. The main thrust of Ms Ms new points are as 
follows:
Having previously confirmed the advisor didnt call it on the phone, H has now confirmed 
that the advisor didnt use its online chat or online portal; 
The advisor told her he couldnt advise her on the SDLT position, but from speaking to 
other brokers, its common knowledge what her liability would have been;The advisor wrongly told her that shed need a tenancy agreement in order for him to key 
the rental income into the affordability assessment. All that was needed was a letter 
predicting likely rental income from a letting agent, which she could have arranged inside 
half an hour.
Other mortgage advisors have explained that being close to having the HTB for five 
years, and with her equity position and credit rating, she wouldnt have had a problem at 
all and they couldn't understand why Connells advisor would have had an issue 
accessing lenders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with Ms Ms dissatisfaction with not being granted a further extension of time to 
respond to the provisional decision. Two weeks is the normal response time we give to both 
parties, but we will allow more time if we judge it appropriate to do so. I did that in Ms Ms 
case by allowing an extra week for her to collate her evidence and compile her response. 
In my view that was reasonable. After all, its not just Ms M who has been waiting a long time 
for a resolution to this dispute, Connells has too, and I have to be fair to both parties in a 
dispute. Also, Ms M hasnt just had since receipt of my provisional decision to collate and 
compile her rebuttal to our rejection of her complaint. Shes had since the investigator issued 
her view rejecting the complaint in May of this year.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
On the question of lying, Ive already agreed that Ms H reasonably inferred from the 
advisors comments that hed spoken to H on the phone, but in fact he hadnt, and had never 
told her he had. The email Ms H has drawn attention, in which he said he was waiting to 
hear back from H, was amongst material Ms H had already sent us, and which I had taken 
account of, along with other evidence that I consider outweighed the email.
I said in the provisional decision that there were more ways for the advisor to have gleaned 
information from H than speaking to it on the phone, hence him referring in conversation with 
Ms M to what H had told him. The examples I gave were on-line chat and the application 
portal. H has said in its latest letter to Ms M that neither of those were used. 
However, it seems to me, on balance, that the advisor must have used some form of 
interactive programme (whether that makes it a portal or not) up to a point. He had to have 
done to key in the revised proposal of retaining and renting 16O (albeit without including 
rental income  and Ill get to that in due course) in order to have told Ms M that H would 
only lend £205,000 for the purchase of 15H. Also, having obtained that information back 
from the interactive programme in respect of the revised proposal, I dont think it 
unreasonable for the advisor to have said H didnt like there being a second property in the 
background. Within the context of what Ms M was trying to do, it was a fair summation of the 
position as it stood in that moment.
I understand Ms H feels misled, but that wasnt the complaint she made to Connells and 
then referred to this service. Her complaint was specifically that the advisor had lied to her 
by saying hed spoken to H on the phone, and thats the complaint I have decided. Having 
weighed up all of the evidence, I dont find that he did. I now turn back to the content and 
quality of the advice the advisor gave, starting with SDLT.Mortgage advisors are not tax advisors, and I would not expect a mortgage advisor to give 
tax advice, even where the tax in question is related to a property transaction where the 
mortgage advisor is giving mortgage advice. Indeed, this service has in the past upheld a 
complaint against a mortgage advisor who did give SDLT advice and that advice was 
incorrect. 
Ive listened again to the 29 September 2021 phone call. When the advisor said Ms M would 
need a tenancy agreement in place, that was in the context of it being one of the steps that 
would need to be put in place for the BTL mortgage to go through. He didnt say it was 
needed in order for him to key rental income into the affordability assessment. All the advisor 
said regarding keying into the affordability assessment was that hed need something in 
place as proof of what the anticipated rental income would be. 
That something in place might well have been a letter from a letting agent predicting the 
likely rental income that could have been achieved on 16O, and in fairness to Ms M, 
Connells advisor could have made this clearer. Im not sure I share Ms Ms confidence that 
this was something that could be obtained in half an hour, but even if it was, all it would have 
allowed the advisor to do is re-key the revised proposal with rental income included to find 
out if it met Hs affordability criteria. 
It wouldnt in any way of guaranteed a successful application, and although the content of 
the conversation between the advisor and Ms M on 29 September 2020 would have been 
slightly different, Im not persuaded the outcome would in all likelihood have been. Thats 
because the majority of the uncertainties they discussed still remained, as did the time 
pressure around not just the sale of 16O but also the purchase of 15H. 
Regarding those uncertainties, Ive read everything Ms M has said about who she has 
spoken to and the assurances shes been given about how straightforward it would have 
been to find a lender willing to provide a BTL mortgage to repay not just her first mortgage 
on 16O but the HTB as well. First of all, the point she has made about the HTB nearing its 
five-year anniversary isnt new; it was covered and taken into account in the conversation 
with the advisor on 29 September 2021.
As for what other broking firms say Ms M would have been able to do, the evidence to 
corroborate her argument is less than compelling. The email from I was in response to an 
email from Ms M asking I, in effect for a second opinion on what she could have done a year 
before. Ms Ms email provided a summary of her circumstances as they were in 
September 2021, and said that she needed another mortgage professional to let the 
Ombudsman know that remortgaging was indeed a possibility and completely doable.
But it has never been in dispute that a re-mortgage was a possibility and doable. Connells 
advisor made it clear throughout the 29 September 2021 conversation that he thought it 
could be done. What he also rightly said, and Ms M agreed with him, was it would take time, 
and there was a risk to Ms Ms current purchase (not just her sale) if she changed tack at 
this late stage. 
Below, I have reproduced verbatim the response Ms M received from I:
As I did not deal with your case at the time and do not know the full details of the 
application, I cannot state categorically that a mortgage application would have been 
acceptable to a lender. However subject to you passing the lenders affordability, having a 
clean credit record, and looking for an 80% loan in relation to the property value I would 
expect that there would have been a variety of possible options depending upon your exact 
requirements. I am sorry that I cannot be more specific than this but without knowing exactly what your 
previous brokers issues were and not having any documentation to check against lenders 
criteria 
I am sorry that I cannot be more specific.
Thats far from a comprehensive vindication of Ms Ms argument. At best, it endorses what 
Connells advisor told Ms M; i.e. that it was possible and doable.
I said in the provisional decision that Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, and thats broadly 
the same test used by the courts in civil cases. Ultimately, what that test means for Ms M is 
that, as the party bringing the complaint, it falls to her to present a case that is more 
convincing than Connells. Ive emphasised the phrase more convincing because just as 
convincing isnt enough. At best, all I could conclude here is that Ms Ms argument is 
possible equally as convincing as Connells.
I know how much this means to Ms M, but when I give all the evidence its due weight, I cant 
find in her favour however much she thinks I should.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman