DRN-3313944
The complaint
Mr K complains that maturity documents for his Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited 
policy were misleading. 
What happened
Mr K held a Scottish Bond policy which was due to mature on 28 April 2020. Scottish 
Friendly issued a maturity pack to Mr K in advance of this, on 17 March 2020.
The maturity pack included an estimated cash in value made up of the sum assured, 
accrued annual bonuses and the estimated final bonus amount. The pack outlined options 
that Mr K could take on maturity. He chose to reinvest in a Scottish Bond Plus. 
On 6 April 2020, Scottish Friendly wrote to Mr K again. They explained the cash in value had 
dropped as the final bonus rate had fallen from 20% on 17 March and was now 5%. 
Mr K kept his Scottish Bond Plus for about 12 months, paying a further £300 in premiums. 
He encashed it in May 2021 and received £3,199.97. He complained because he felt the 
documents issued on 17 March 2020 had been misleading. He feels theyd led him to expect 
an encashment value of no less than £3,327.96 and more likely a value of £3,554.26 or 
more, if he invested in the Scottish Bond Plus. 
Scottish Friendly didnt uphold his complaint. They said the maturity values in the 17 March 
2020 documentation were estimated, and that the final bonus rate had dropped due to the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Mr K maintains that the wording of the maturity pack documentation was misleading. He 
thinks Scottish Friendly should compensate him for the £300 in premiums he paid towards 
the Scottish Bond Plus. So he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr K disagreed, the case has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between the investigator and Mr K on 10 February 2022. I can hear 
Mr K acknowledges that Scottish Friendly didnt make any guarantees about the investment. 
It appears he also appreciates that it was within Scottish Friendlys right to make the 
changes they did in relation to the final bonus rate. So I wont go into detail about these 
points here, as they dont appear to be in dispute. 
Mr K is unhappy as he feels that the maturity pack misled him into reinvesting with the 
Scottish Bond Plus. He thinks the wording used when describing option 2 (which he 
selected) made it appear he was likely to receive a cash in value of at least £3,327.96. And 
this wasnt the case as he received less.
Ive carefully considered the wording of the maturity pack. Mr K feels strongly that the 
wording around option 2 includes a confusing and contradictory phrase - estimated 
guaranteed minimum cash in value. Ive thought about this, and while in isolation I can see 
this phrase might be confusing, I must also take into account its context - the fact it was 
included with further information. And taking everything into account, I think its clear that the 
cash in value is an estimate, included to provide an indication of what you could receive 
rather than what you would receive. I cannot ignore the fact the word estimate is included, 
and I think it demonstrates this is in some way an approximation rather than a confirmed 
figure. Had Mr K been unsure about this, or any other details, Scottish Friendly provided a 
phone line which was available to answer questions. 
Ive looked at the other information provided to Mr K about the Scottish Bond Plus, including 
the key features documents. Having done so, I think he was given sufficient clear, fair and 
not misleading information in order to make an informed choice about whether to take out 
the Scottish Bond Plus. 
Mr K has pointed out that Scottish Friendly chose to supply a specific cash in value for 
option 2. This was higher than the estimated value of cashing in the Scottish Bond he held, 
so he feels it encouraged him to take out the Scottish Bond Plus and pay more premiums. 
Scottish Friendly did provide an estimated cash in value  but this is exactly what I wouldve 
expected them to do. It is standard industry practice, and without this it would be difficult for 
a customer to make an informed choice. Clearly in this instance, the estimate was lower than 
what Mr K received, and we know this is because the final bonus rate dropped significantly. 
But this isnt a reason to say it shouldnt have been provided in the first place. It was an 
estimate and therefore couldve been higher or lower than the final amount.
Ive also considered that the Scottish Bond Plus had the benefit of encashment without 
penalty at any point. So Mr K could have encashed it after receiving the letter of 6 April 2020 
which outlined the revised, lower final bonus rate. However, Mr K chose to keep the 
investment until May 2021. So even if I did think hed been misled with the 17 March 2020 
documentation, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Scottish Friendly to compensate him for all 
the premiums he paid until May 2021. This is because he couldve sought to mitigate what 
he now considers to be his loss, by cashing in the policy and ceasing to pay further 
premiums. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman