DRN-2436224
The complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined his claim against his travel
insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr R took out a single trip, Coverwise travel insurance policy with 
IPA through a price comparison website. The policy was cover for a seven day trip later in 
September 2019.
Mr R was taken ill during the trip with pain on the left of his torso. He required treatment. 
On his return home, he made a claim against his policy.
IPA declined Mr Rs claim. It said that the policy isnt designed to provide cover for 
anyone with pre-existing medical conditions. IPA said that Mr R should have answered 
yes to the question about pre-existing medical conditions, as he had septorhinoplasty 
as a result of a medical condition affecting his nose. It said that if Mr R had answered 
correctly, it wouldnt have sold him the policy. IPA offered to cancel the policy and refund 
the premium.
Mr R says that when he first told IPA about this, it said that he was covered under the 
policy. He says that he didnt think he had to tell IPA about his septorhinoplasty, as it wasnt 
a medical condition, it was an operation and had nothing to do with the illness he required 
treatment for on his trip. Mr R wants IPA to pay his claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whilst IPAs position is 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, it hadnt acted fairly. The investigator 
didnt think that Mr R had failed to take reasonable care when answering the medical 
questions.
He said that the medical information Mr R omitted to tell IPA about doesnt affect the level 
of risk IPA was taking on. The investigator said that the condition which led to Mr Rs claim 
is neither directly nor indirectly linked to anything the investigator had seen in Mr Rs 
medical records. He thought that IPA should deal with the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
IPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said the policy doesnt provide cover for anyone 
with pre-existing medical conditions and that Mr R didnt answer the questions correctly 
when he took out the policy. IPA said that if Mr R had answered correctly and his previous 
treatment had been screened, it wouldnt have offered him the policy, so it was happy to 
offer a refund of the premium.
The investigator considered what IPA said but didnt change his view. IPA asked that an
ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me.
My provisional decision
On 1 December 2020, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt propose to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I said: 
the questions Mr R was asked at inception and the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the questions Mr R was asked at inception of the policy and the policy 
terms and conditions.
On the comparison site, theres a warning which says:
It is important you answer all questions honestly. Take care that the information you 
disclose throughout the quote is accurate and complete to the best of your knowledge. If 
you dont do this, your insurance provider could increase your premium, cancel your policy, 
treat it as if it never existed, refuse a claim or not pay the claim in full.
On the comparison site, Mr R was asked:
Does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition, or is anyone on a 
waiting list for treatment or investigation?
The information box underneath that question said:
Youll need to tell us about any medical conditions you have or have previously had. Your 
insurance wont always cost more to cover these conditions, but if you dont tell us about 
them any claim you make could be rejected.
When Mr R selected IPA as his insurer, he was asked:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any medical 
condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or injury) that has 
required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
The terms and conditions of the policy includes the following: 
Significant or unusual limitations or what is not covered
You not accurately answering any question(s) we have asked you at the time 
of buying this insurance, where your answer(s) may have affected our 
decision to provide you with this policy
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint because I dont think that IPA treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a 
consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, 
or careless.
IPA thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he answered no to the questions about pre-existing conditions which Ive 
set out above.
Ive looked at the questions IPA asked, and the answers Mr R gave. The 
information box on the comparison site made it clear that Mr R needed to disclose 
any medical conditions he has or had previously. The question on the insurers site 
made it clear that it wanted to know about any medical condition requiring 
treatment in the last five years. I dont think that Mr R took reasonable care in 
answering the questions. Thats because his medical records show that he had 
septorhinoplasty in late 2017  so Mr R had surgery for a medical condition within 
five years of applying for the policy. Mr R should have told IPA about that.
Thats not the end of the matter, as I need to decide whether Mr Rs failure to 
disclose information IPA wanted to know about made any difference in this case. 
IPA says that if Mr R had answered accurately and disclosed that hed had surgery 
in the last five years, the comparison site would have asked Mr R further medical 
questions and its policy wouldnt have appeared on the panel of available insurers. 
This means that Im satisfied that Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one 
under CIDRA, as IPA wouldnt have offered Mr R the policy if it had known the true 
position.
I appreciate that the condition which led to the claim and the surgery Mr R had in 
late 2017 are medically unrelated. That doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats 
because IPA is entitled to decide that it wont offer the policy to anyone who had a 
medical condition thats required prescribed medication or treatment including 
surgery, tests or investigations within the last five years.
IPA has offered to refund Mr Rs premium. Thats what wed expect it to do when 
theres been a qualifying misrepresentation thats careless, rather than reckless 
or deliberate. I dont intend to interfere with IPAs classification of what happened 
here as thats to Mr Rs benefit.
In his complaint form, Mr R says that when he first told IPA about this, it said that 
he was covered under the policy. Its not clear to me that Mr R raised this element 
of his complaint with IPA, so it hasnt had a chance to respond to it. That means 
that I cant deal with it here.Considering everything, I think that IPA isnt obliged to deal with Mr Rs claim as 
he made a qualifying misrepresentation at the outset - if IPA had known the true 
position, it wouldnt have offered Mr R this policy. So, I dont propose to ask it to 
do any more. If Mr R wants to take up IPAs offer to refund the premium, he 
should contact it directly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R said:
Coverwise would have offered him cover if he had declared a medical condition: 
after his claim was declined, he went on to the website to check. 
He also ran a quote on a comparison site which told him that he didnt need to 
complete medical screening and which went on to offer him a Coverwise policy. 
He answered the questions to the best of his knowledge.
He still doesnt believe he had a pre-existing condition and referred to the 
definition on a comparison site. 
He had septorhinoplasty in 2017 as the appearance of his nose was 
misshapen. The operation wasnt a medical requirement, it was a choice to 
improve his physical appearance after a previous operation had left his nose 
misshapen. 
If IPA says that the product he selected wasnt suitable, it should charge him 
the additional premium for the superior policy that does cover pre-existing 
conditions.
He took a reasonable approach and wants to be treated fairly. 
This service put Mr Rs points to IPA. It responded to say:
The Coverwise policy Mr R found that allows medical screening are Select 
products but Mr R purchased a Standard product that doesnt allow for any 
medical screening and is sold on the basis that theres no medical history.  Its 
not appropriate to say it should charge him for a different policy.
If Mr R had declared the pre-existing condition he would have been referred to 
the search engine to compare medical policies.
When searching retrospectively, Mr R would have been presented with many 
policies and underwriters. He may have chosen a cheaper policy or one with 
more cover than the Select policy, or simply one appearing higher up the list.
If Mr R had initially chosen a Select policy, it could have done a retro screen 
and look to cover the claim on a proportionate basis, but the Standard policy 
Mr R bought doesnt allow it to screen, so it cant say what the premium would 
be following a declared condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr R doesnt believe he had a pre-existing condition, but Im satisfied that he did. Mr Rs 
medical records show that he saw his GP about his nose in April 2017. The GPs notes 
record that Mr R had septorhinoplasty in 2012 but still had restriction in his right nasal airway 
and sometimes had difficulties breathing. Mr Rs GP found that he had deviation of the 
anterior part of the nasal septum. Mr R wanted to be referred in order to consider another 
operation. So, the evidence suggests that this wasnt simply a cosmetic procedure. Mr Rs 
GP referred him, and he had septorhinoplasty in December 2017. Im satisfied that it comes 
within the definition of medical condition which IPA wanted to know about. 
Had Mr R answered the question correctly, IPA wouldnt have offered him this policy. The 
evidence Ive seen suggests that Mr R would have been directed to a panel of insurers who 
do cover pre-existing medical conditions via the price comparison website he used. Theres 
no evidence which makes me think that, had he done so, Mr R would have taken out a 
different Coverwise policy. I say that because Mr R is most likely to have been presented 
with a whole range of options from various providers at a range of different prices and with 
different benefits. In the circumstances of this case, I cant reasonably conclude that its 
more likely than not that Mr R would have chosen a different Coverwise policy which 
covered his pre-existing condition. So, theres no basis on which to direct IPA to charge Mr R 
the additional premium it would have charged for a different policy or to deal with the claim 
on a proportionate basis. 
Ive considered whats been said but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons in my provisional decision and those 
set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman