DRN-3291312
The complaint
Ms P complains that Revolut Ltd treated her unfairly in relation to a chargeback request.
Shes also unhappy with her account being suspended and with the service provided
throughout, Ms P feels Revolut have discriminated against her.
What happened
Ms P lives abroad but had an apartment booked for around a week-long stay in England in
March 2020. Ms P says the apartment wasnt as advertised, and so while she still stayed
there, Ms P subsequently raised a chargeback request. Ms P felt she ought to have her
payment returned due to the differences shed identified, saying the local authority had also
told her the letting was illegal.
Revolut said Ms P wasnt entitled to a chargeback, since she had stayed at the apartment.
They said they wouldnt even submit a request to Visa, because they believed it would be
declined for that reason. Revolut also commented that there would be a cost to them for
doing so.
Ms P said it was her right to be able to submit a chargeback request and Revolut was putting
an unreasonable barrier in place.
Ms P says Revolut later unfairly suspended her account, and that they didnt give her
adequate notice. Ms P also said that Revolut staff dont use their own names and got
offended when she pointed this out.
Revolut explained that Visa have strict guidelines when dealing with chargeback requests,
and that all they had done was followed those.
Finally, Revolut said their staff dont display their real names on the online chat function for
their own security. They say they have no regulatory obligation to display their names, but
they do have internal records should they ever be required to identify someone.
An investigator here looked into Ms Ps case. They felt Revolut had handled the chargeback
fairly and that their reason for not requesting it through Visa was acceptable. There would be
a cost to them, and based on what happened, it would likely be unsuccessful. So, there was 
no point in any cost being incurred.
The investigator also said it was acceptable for Revolut staff to use pseudonyms, and noted
that Revolut took on board Ms Ps comments and refunded a one-month subscription fee as
a goodwill gesture.
Ms P did not agree. She said she felt discriminated against and said that Revolut had no
right to reject her chargeback request. Ms P said the bank in her home country had allowed
chargebacks in the same circumstances, so she felt it would be successful if Revolut would
only do it. And she felt the gesture of refunding a one-month subscription fee (£6) was an
insult given the chargeback was for over £300.
Ms P also raised concerns that Revolut had suspended her account without adequate
notice.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. In the
meantime, however, Revolut offered Ms P £200 as a goodwill gesture for having not allowed
her two months to withdraw her funds. Ms P hasnt accepted this offer.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2021, a copy of which is repeated 
below.
Having reviewed everything very carefully Id like to confirm that my decision relates to the
following:
Revoluts decision not to raise a chargeback with Visa
Revoluts alleged discrimination and use of pseudonyms
Revoluts suspension of Ms Ps account
I am aware that Ms P has another case with our service but that relates to other matters
which have not formed part of my consideration.
The chargeback
I think the first thing for me to say here is that chargebacks are not a customer right, as Ms P
has stated. And while we might sometimes think its good practice for a chargeback to be
done when requested by a customer, that wont always be the case.
In this instance, Ms P paid for an apartment. And while she says it didnt perfectly match the
one advertised (a missing table has been noted), Ms P was still provided with an apartment
in the city shed booked one for. And from what has been said it doesnt sound to me that the
apartment was particularly unsuitable.
I do appreciate what Ms P said about it being an illegal letting, but that doesnt mean Revolut
are responsible for doing any more for her. That would be an issue between her and the
company she arranged it through. It was of course up to Ms P as to whether she wanted to
raise an issue with that company.
Ive also considered what Ms P said about making successful chargeback requests in other
countries. But that doesnt mean Revolut was wrong, it just means that different banks will
have different procedures. And that alone is not unfair.
Overall, I think Revolut was entitled to decide whether to raise the chargeback request with
the card scheme. And I think the reasons they chose not to were fair.
I would add though, I appreciate Revolut has said Ms P might have had more success with
the chargeback if shed refused the apartment. But I think it might have been difficult for her
to find replacement accommodation at short notice, so I can understand why she still stayed
there. Nevertheless, the fact she did that is relevant in the circumstances and so it wasnt
unfair for Revolut to take it into account in their decision making.
Discrimination and use of pseudonyms
I can understand Ms Ps concerns with Revolut employees using pseudonyms, and I agree it
seems an unusual thing to do  especially if theyre using names of characters in films. But
that doesnt mean it isnt fair or is discriminatory. Revolut explained to Ms P that it is done for
the protection of their staff, and that there had been incidents in the past.I appreciate Ms Ps view that this creates an imbalance between her and Revolut. Because
their staff have her name, address, date of birth and her financial information  while she
doesnt even have a real name for the person shes dealing with. I think most of thats an
inevitability when dealing with finances. Financial businesses require such information for
regulatory and data protection reasons, so its only right that they have it.
And I note Revolut reassured Ms P that her details are held securely and that they keep
records of which staff members have helped which customers, should this be required at a
later date.
Overall, I dont think its unfair for Revolut to allow the use of pseudonyms and I havent seen
anything to make me think they treated Ms P differently on account of her nationality or
gender. I think her chargeback request would have been declined regardless of those
characteristics.
Account suspension
Ms P says Revolut suspended her account prematurely, and that this meant she didnt have
as long as she expected to be able to make withdrawals and currency transfers. Ms P said
this was of particular concern at the time, because the coronavirus had made currencies
fluctuate more than usual. Ms P said she used to transfer between currencies and
sometimes made a small profit.
I can see from their records that Revolut found Ms P to be rude and offensive to their staff.
Revolut has provided evidence of Ms P saying Revolut staff members are corrupt, theyre
liars and she also says theyre ignorant. In view of this I dont consider Revoluts actions in
suspending the account to be unreasonable. I can see that on 4 September 2020, Revolut
informed Ms P theyd be suspending her account and asked that she withdraw her funds in
1-2 weeks.
I appreciate this isnt as long as they say theyll allow on their website (which is two months),
but they have apologised for that and have offered Ms P £200 compensation. I think £200 is
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Ms P withdrew her money within a few days
of being informed of the suspension. I dont know what the rates were at that time or how
they fluctuated in the period that followed. But Ive not seen anything to make me think a)
that Ms P would have waited or b) that shed have been able to benefit from further currency
exchanges. After all, Ms P could have found herself in a worse position if the markets didnt
change in the way she hoped.
Furthermore, I think Ms P could have avoided having her account suspended by modifying
her behaviour. And therefore, I think £200 fairly compensates Ms P for the worry she was
caused in relation to not having as long as she should have been given.
Overall, while something went wrong with the account suspension, I think Revolut otherwise
treated Ms P fairly. And their offer of compensation is fair for the reasons explained.
Revolut didnt disagree with my provisional decision, although they did ask for conditions to 
be attached to the offer of £200. They wanted it to be conditional on Ms P withdrawing 
another complaint she had with our service. I explained that they couldnt attach such a 
condition to the offer and that I would proceed to make a final decision on the matter.
Ms P disagreed with my provisional decision. She reiterated that the apartment was illegally 
let and that meant it was unsuitable. Ms P also said it was ok to call Revolut staff corrupt and 
liars because she felt that was the truth. And that advisers left the online chat open for days to prevent her from connecting to anyone else.
Regarding the suspension of the account, Ms P said this generated losses of thousands of 
euros  explaining that she did trading using the account, not transfers. But that she had 
stopped doing this when the currency fell during the coronavirus that year, and was waiting 
for the value of the pound sterling to recover, which it now has. Ms P also said she shouldnt 
have to change her behaviour just to keep the account open.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision, because I have seen 
nothing to persuade me to depart from what I previously said. I will, however, address some 
of the points raised by Ms P.
I accept that the apartment may not have been exactly the same as the one advertised, and 
it may have been illegally let. But Ms P was able to stay there and has not explained how 
any harm came to her. I note the reference to a missing table (there just being one instead of 
two), but I do not agree that made the apartment particularly unsuitable. 
If Ms P considers any illegality to mean she deserves a refund, then she can take that up 
with the vendor. For the reasons explained, I dont consider this to be the responsibility of 
Revolut.
I dont agree with Ms P saying that its ok to call someone corrupt or a liar if she considers it 
to be the truth. Firstly, Ms Ps belief does not make it fact. Secondly, Ms P could still remain 
polite and professional without using such emotive words. And I dont think its unreasonable 
for Revolut or their employees to find such accusations offensive.
Ive reviewed the online chat for the period relating to the chargeback and I dont have any 
major concerns. On 6 April 2020, an adviser left the chat open for a while after asking Ms P 
a question, but when Ms P asked for it to be closed this was done within one minute.
Then, during a chat on 17 April 2020, an adviser asked how they could help Ms P. She said 
she requested a chargeback, but within just two minutes, Ms P then asked for the chat to be 
closed. I dont consider the lack of an immediate response to be unreasonable on Revoluts 
part and the chat was closed promptly on request.
Later that day, an adviser said they would put Ms P through to the relevant team, to advise 
her on the chargeback. There was a delay here of around 20 minutes, which Revolut 
acknowledged. Ms P then sent six statements and a question over the course of six minutes, 
and received a response within a minute of her last message. Ms P then asked to be put 
through to a supervisor. I note that took about half an hour, which is longer than perhaps it 
couldve been, but I dont find it to be excessive as there will no doubt be fewer supervisors 
than advisers, and so their availability is unlikely to be immediate.
The supervisor provided Ms P with an answer regarding her chargeback request. Ms P then 
sent five messages over the course of around 12 minutes, before asking for the chat to be 
closed. This was done within around one minute of her request.
Ms P then opened another chat that day. In this Ms P asked to be given the complaint, a 
request she repeated within two minutes. Four seconds after that, and clearly frustrated, Ms 
P said Now??. A minute later the adviser explains Ms P can raise a complaint with him. But shortly after that Ms P twice asked for the chat to be closed.
And after asking the adviser What part of close it now please do you not understand?? 
the chat was closed within around three minutes of the first request on that exchange.
After starting a fourth chat that day Ms P explains further why she has been unhappy with 
her recent interactions and a link to a complaint form was provided to her.
I do appreciate the total time spent on these chats was over two hours, but I think a fair 
amount of that was because Ms P kept requesting their closure and having to explain her 
concerns to a new person each time. Overall, and while it couldve been better, I dont think 
the service provided by Revolut in this respect to have been so bad as to warrant 
compensation.
Ms P hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate she lost thousands of euros as a result of 
the premature account suspension. I appreciate she wasnt given as long as she shouldve 
been, and that given more time she may have traded currencies on the account. But I 
maintain that theres no way of knowing what trading Ms P would have done, nor whether it 
wouldve been profitable. So, Im not going to make an award in that respect, and I still 
believe Revoluts offer of £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused is reasonable.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Revolut Ltd to pay Ms P £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman