DRN-2033178
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with his insurers Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA), who have 
declined his claim for damage under his building insurance. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D made a claim for water damage at his home. 
The damage was inspected by a surveyor who wrote a report that stated that the damage 
was caused on a gradual basis and as such wasnt covered by the terms of the policy. RSA 
also concluded that the event didnt amount to a storm.  
Mr D was unhappy with this and raised a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. He concluded that the weather at the time of 
the event was a storm. That the internal water damage amounted to damage from a storm 
and not wear and tear. So, RSA were unreasonable to decline this part of the claim and it 
should reassess Mr Ds claim. He concluded that the external damage was caused due to 
wear and tear and it was reasonable for RSA to decline this part of the claim.  
RSA didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 April 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 2 
May 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether or not there were prevailing storm 
conditions at the time of the claim. If Im not satisfied there was, I must decide if RSA ought 
to consider the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy.  
Was there a storm?
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can, reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
RSA determined that the event didnt amount to a storm as it failed to meet their definition of 
a storm, namely wind speeds had to be 47 mph or rain fall had to amount to 16mm per hour. 
I have considered the local weather reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on 
to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that there was rainfall 
around the time of the claim, but it wasnt sufficiently heavy enough to meet RSAs definition.  
Also, the winds werent sufficiently strong enough to meet the requirements. Looking at the 
reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was present at the time of the event. So, the answer 
to the first question is no and consequently I have decided it was reasonable for RSA to 
decline the claim on the basis of no storm being present 
Should RSA deal with the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy?
The surveyor indicated that there were external cracks around the property. Mr B provided 
evidence that the conservatory was 20 years of age and had undergone some repairs about 
10 years ago. I have seen some photos that appear to show the cracks. It appears unlikely 
that those cracks manifested themselves over a 24-hour period and it is more likely that the 
heavy rain made the existing cracks worse. I am more persuaded by the surveyors 
conclusion that the external damage was caused by wear and tear and as such I think it is 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim.   
I must also consider the likely cause of the water ingress. The surveyor reported that water 
had, over a period of time, been seeping into the property. Mr Ds policy doesnt cover for 
gradual wear and tear. RSA defines accidental cover as:
 Accidental Damage  Sudden, unexpected and visible damage which has not been caused 
on purpose.  
Mr D didnt mention seeing any damage to the wall prior to the event. The surveyor noted 
that there was staining on the walls which would indicate that the water damage had been 
gradual and not sudden or unexpected. I accept the evidence from RSA that there was 
staining and water had been getting in over a period of time for sometime. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Ds 
claim.  
I presently, think RSA has dealt with Mr Ds claim fairly. Im not satisfied that there were 
storm conditions at the time of the event and any damage caused was as a result of gradual 
wear and tear. In the circumstances, Im not minded to direct RSA to take any further action.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
As neither party has responded, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman