DRN-3554452
The complaint
The estate of Mr A has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
voided Mr As decreasing life assurance policy and declined a claim.
What happened
Very sadly, Mr A passed away in December 2020. Legal and General declined a claim made 
by his estate. It felt that Mr A had failed to take reasonable care in 2019 when taking out his 
policy in relation to the questions it asked in about alcohol consumption. Had it known about 
the alcohol consumption it wouldnt have offered cover. It classified the misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless and in accordance with the law it voided the policy and declined to 
meet the estates claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, he didnt find that Legal and 
General had done anything wrong.
The representative of Mr As estate appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr As family. Its clear that this has 
been a very traumatic time.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and 
the representations made. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
When assessing the claim made by his estate, Legal and General were concerned that Mr 
As medical records showed a contrast to the answers given when he took the policy out. 
The application form Mr A completed in 2019 contained the following questions:
How often do you drink alcohol? 
On a typical day when you have alcohol, how many alcoholic drinks do you have? For 
example, a drink is a glass of wine or a glass or bottle of beer.
Mr A answered the first question: two or three times a month and the second 5.
Im satisfied that the questions were clear.
Mr As medical records include a July 2020 note that Mr A had been drinking half a litre of 
spirits a day for years.
There is also a nurses note in August 2020. On this occasion a translator was present. In 
relation to his alcohol usage the note states that Mr A has been drinking every day for 
approximately 10 years. The note continued that he drunk two beers and 150mls of spirits.
I accept that these entries were made after the policy was taken out in 2019. I accept too 
that things took a turn for the worse for Mr A during lockdown and his drinking increased. 
Prior to being furloughed he had been in steady employment and was said to be a 
conscientious employee. 
I also note there are differing entries with regard to Mr As period of abstinence. It is reported 
in 2020 as being both for one year five years ago and for one and a half months five years 
ago. Im not persuaded that greater clarity here would have made a difference. I say this as 
Legal and General has shown by underwriting evidence that it wouldnt have offered cover if 
the questions had been answered accurately in 2019.
Although I havent disregarded the inconsistencies in Mr As reported alcohol intake and 
history, overall Im satisfied it was reasonable of Legal and General to rely on the medical 
evidence to conclude that the questions were answered incorrectly at the application stage. 
Like our investigator Im persuaded that it was fair to rely on the account given when a 
translator was present. I find it was fair and reasonable for Legal and General to conclude 
that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one and was deliberate or reckless. 
Im satisfied that Mr A wouldnt have been offered cover had he given correct answers to the 
lifestyle questions about his drinking habits. I agree that at best Mr As answers were 
reckless  its reasonable to assume he would have been aware of his own drinking habits. 
In line with CIDRA therefore Legal and General was entitled to void the policy and decline 
the claim. Notwithstanding the fact that Legal and General classified the misrepresentation 
as deliberate or reckless, it refunded the premiums paid. I find this was fair.
Im sorry to bring the estate of Mr A such unwelcome news, but in all the circumstances I 
dont find that Legal and General treated Mr As estate unfairly or contrary to law by voiding 
the policy and declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman