The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage during a branch 
meeting in 1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the mortgage or PPI, which is not 
surprising considering the time that has passed, especially since the mortgage was 
redeemed in 2001. Mr and Mrs H have been able to provide some documentation, which has 
been helpful. but it doesnt provide the full picture. Therefore, in reaching my decision, I have 
considered the information that I have seen, as well as what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr and Mrs H say that the PPI was presented as something they had to have as part of the 
mortgage application.
Mr and Mrs H have provided a copy of a document called Your Financial Report that is 
dated 5 September 1997. Usually, during a mortgage interview, people are asked if they 
have an interest in arranging a meeting with a financial adviser to discuss their further 
insurance and investment needs. If they say yes, then a meeting is set up. The document is 
clearly a record of that meeting. The report contains no mention of PPI. Thats because PPI 
is usually discussed during the mortgage interview, as opposed to a financial planning 
meeting which tends to discuss the wider potential needs of the individuals.
Mr and Mrs H say that the report shows that they declined PPI. I can see that the report 
records the couple as not being concerned about income protection or retirement planning. 
But income protection policies are not the same as PPI policies. Income protection policies 
are designed to provide an income (typically up to 75% of someones existing salary) if 
someone is unable to work due to illness, whereas PPI policies cover mortgage repayments 
DRN-1951134if someone is unable to work due to illness and also where someone has become 
unemployed.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was normally presented as 
optional. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something else 
happened in this case. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs H have provided their genuine 
recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if 
their memories have faded. I've thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs H have said 
but, overall, I consider it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice 
about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
As it was a branch sale, BoS probably advised Mr and Mrs H to buy the PPI. Therefore, in 
recommending it to them, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know 
of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Although BoS originally said that the policy was set up just to cover Mr H, it has now 
confirmed that the policy covered both Mr and Mrs H equally. As Mr and Mrs H were earning 
similar incomes at the time, it makes sense that the cover should have been split 50/50.
Both Mr and Mrs H would have received sick pay from their jobs. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than either of them would have 
received full pay for. Mr and Mrs H say they had some savings, but having the policy would 
have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. Mr and Mrs H say that both of their parents would have helped. 
But presumably asking someone else to pay your mortgage for you would be a last resort. 
And other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and 
Mrs H had an interest in protecting their repayments. It seems to me that they had a need for 
the policy and could have benefitted from it if circumstances had arisen where theyd have 
needed to make a claim on it. So I think it was reasonable of BoS to advise them to buy it. 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs H enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about whether the PPI was right for them. I think they would have known something 
about the policy  that it would cover their mortgage repayments if they were unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  as I dont think theyd have decided to buy it 
without knowing anything at all about it. A letter that BoS sent to Mr and Mrs H on 10 
September 1997 states the cost of the policy, so I also think that Mr and Mrs H would have 
known what theyd be paying for it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of 
those things. As I consider they had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that BoS 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.Carole Clark
Ombudsman