DRN-4062030
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES 
LIMITED (Atlanta) when cancelling his commercial motor insurance policy, as well as the 
cancellation charges applied and missing policy documentation.
What happened
Mr Hs policy with Atlanta incepted in November 2022. He says he sold his truck and so 
needed to cancel his insurance. When he called, he says Atlanta told him it would cost him 
£130.11 to cancel his policy. Mr H says he could only see a charge for £50 in his policy 
booklet. He says he asked for a breakdown, but none was provided. Mr H also says the 
agents he spoke to cut him off. 
In its initial response to Mr Hs complaint, following a telephone conversation, Atlanta said it 
had reduced the balance owing on his policy from £130.11 to £40.11. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response. Atlanta sent a final complaint response in January 
2023. It says the cancellation fee it advised was correct. This incorporated time on risk, as 
well as the cancellation fee it charges, and the fee raised by Mr Hs insurer. In its response it 
explained how the charge had been calculated. 
Atlanta says a call cut-off whilst its agent was checking the figures. It says this wasnt done 
deliberately. When Mr H called back Atlanta says its agent explained the additional amount 
he had to pay, and that if it wasnt paid it could be passed to a recovery agent. It says the 
charges are explained in its Terms of Business document. Atlanta says Mr Hs query about 
the balance owed couldve been answered more clearly. It says it offered to remove its 
charges from the balance owing, which reduced it by £90. 
Mr H didnt think Atlanta had addressed his complaint fairly and he referred the matter to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the charges were raised 
correctly by Atlanta acting as his insurance intermediary. This includes the cancellation fee 
applied by the underwriter of the insurance policy. Having listened to the call recordings he 
thought Atlantas agents had reasonably tried to explain what happens if an outstanding 
balance isnt paid.  
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Atlanta supplied includes a welcome letter dated at the start of November 
2022 when Mr Hs policy incepted. Accompanying this letter is a Terms of Business 
document. The section relating to cancellation says:
Cancellation after 14 days - Service Charge - £50. 
And:
If your policy is cancelled after the 14 day cooling period we will charge you £50.00. The 
terms of your policy may allow your insurers to retain the premium in full or to charge short 
period premiums in the event of cancellation before the policy expires Please refer to your 
policy booklet for details of charges that your insurer may make.
Also:
Discounts and cancellation: If your policy is cancelled before the end of the 12 month term 
we will pro-rata any discount that was applied when you took out the policy. For example, if 
you received a discount of £12 and the policy is cancelled six months into the 12 month 
policy term, you will be expected to pay £6 for the unused portion of the discount.
In addition to the above, the Terms of Business document under the heading, Payment for 
our services explains that a non-refundable service charge for £40 is payable to Atlanta for 
arranging the new policy. 
Ive read the policy terms for Mr Hs insurance policy. The cancellation section says:
You may cancel your policy in writing at any time by notifying us or your intermediary of 
your intention to cancel. Subject to no claim arising in the current period of insurance, we will 
give a return of premium for the unexpired portion of the Policy less any administration 
charge.
The terms say that an administration charge for £50 plus insurance premium tax is payable 
in the event of a cancellation. 
The annual premium for Mr Hs policy came to £353.92. I can see Atlanta wrote to him the 
day after he confirmed his decision to cancel his insurance. Its letter set outs a breakdown of 
the charges. This is made up of £77.34 in charges raised by Mr Hs insurer. An arrangement 
fee for £40 and a £50 cancellation fee raised by Atlanta. Mr H paid £29.82 in instalments 
toward his total premium. £7.41 was deducted from the amount owing as the pro-rata portion 
of the premium discount. The total amount left owing was £130.11, which Atlantas letter 
says is due to be paid within the next seven days. 
Having considered the policy terms, including Atlantas terms of business - the charges it 
raised are correct. 
Our service thinks its fair for a customer to be made aware of any cancellation charges 
before they agree to take an insurance policy. I cant see from the information provided if this 
was made clear to Mr H. But as Atlanta has removed its charges from the outstanding 
balance, he hasnt been negatively impacted by this. 
Mr Hs complaint is with Atlanta not his insurer. So, I havent considered the charges it raised 
other than to acknowledge these charges appear to be in line with its policy terms.
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments that he didnt receive policy documentation setting out 
all the charges. I can understand why he could be confused with the charges raised if he 
hadnt seen this information. The welcome pack Atlanta issued at the inception of Mr Hs 
policy includes a copy of its Terms of Business. I can see that this was addressed correctly. I dont dispute Mr Hs comments that he didnt receive documentation setting out all the 
charges. But as Atlanta has removed its charges amounting to £90, I dont think hes been 
disadvantaged financially.  
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Mr H and Atlantas agents. In the first call 
Mr H confirms he wants to cancel the policy as hes sold the vehicle. The agent puts the call 
on hold to check on the charges involved. Mr H can be heard still connected on the call, but 
it appears the call was disconnected. 
Mr H called back. Ive listened to this call. Atlantas agent tells Mr H he owes £130.11 to 
cancel the policy. Mr H is surprised by the amount owed given the short period on risk. I 
think the agent couldve been more helpful and explained how this charge was made up. But 
he didnt and quickly talks about referring to a debt recovery agent. I think this part of the call 
couldve been handled better. An automated message can then be heard that says the call is 
on hold, but Atlantas agent can be heard saying hello. I cant be sure what happened here, 
but the indication is that Mr H placed the call on hold via his phone, presumably in error.  
Mr H called back again and was passed through to the cancellation team. This call lasted 
just under 40 forty minutes during which Mr H explained he couldnt find reference to the 
charges he was being asked to pay in the policy terms. Atlantas agent explained the 
charges and confirmed a written breakdown would be provided. A complaint was raised 
during this call. 
I think the second call couldve been handled better. Mr H was clearly shocked at the 
amount charged for cancelling the policy. Atlantas agent couldve provided more information 
and been more empathetic in his response. Its fair that Atlanta acknowledges the upset this 
caused him. But I think its done enough to put things right by removing £90 in its charges 
from the balance owing. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Atlanta behaved unfairly in the charges it raised. It 
couldve handled one of the calls better and its unfortunate the first call disconnected. But it 
acted reasonably by removing its cancellation charges. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman