DRN-3771106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from early October 2019, Mr C had two cars insured on a comprehensive multi-
car policy with Aviva. He was the  policyholder. The policy also covered Mrs C as a named 
driver.
On 24 January 2020, Mr C was driving one of the cars when it came into contact with the car 
in front, belonging to a third party.
Mr C told Aviva that there had been no damage to the third partys car.
However, on 17 February 2020, Aviva paid the third partys claim.
Mr C complained to Aviva later in 2020. On about 24 November 2020, Mr C and Aviva had a 
telephone conversation that led to its final response later that day. 
Aviva apologised for poor service and distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C. Aviva 
said it had offered and Mr C had accepted £250.00 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint and it had sent a cheque. Its final response included the following:
We discussed the next steps in regard to the claim, although we have requested 
further information we cannot guarantee that this will change the outcome of your 
claim. The claims team will be in touch in due course to advise you of their findings.
Mr C brought his complaint to us in late April 2021. He asked us to direct Aviva to nullify the 
claim and reinstate his no-claims discount (NCD).
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that Aviva had done anything wrong by accepting liability, treating the claim as at fault and 
adversely affecting the NCD.
The investigator thought that Aviva was responsible for failure to seek further information 
and respond and clarify the status of Mr Cs NCD. He recommended that Aviva should pay 
Mr C - on top of the £250.00 that had already been paid - £75.00 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by such failure. 
Aviva agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr C says, 
in summary that:
Pictures taken on the day of the incident and on the morning after clearly show that 
there was no damage at all to the third partys car.
The third partys wrongful claim has adversely affected his NCD. His premiums have 
increased substantially a few hundred pounds more every year.
Aviva should reinstate his NCD.
£75.00 does not cover any of this in a meaningful way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim by a third party. Avivas policy terms included the following:
Our rights
if we want to we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under 
the policy the defence or settlement of any claim
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of 
any claim
The effect of that term was that  on a question of how to deal with a third partys claim  
Avivas view would prevail over Mr Cs. But I will consider whether Aviva applied that term 
fairly.
Aviva didnt get the third partys engineers report, or otherwise check the claimed damage to 
the third partys car before settling the claim. And the photographs dont show any damage. 
Also, Aviva didnt update Mr C.
However, I have to consider what shouldve happened if Aviva had checked. And Aviva has 
shown us the third party engineer report dated early February 2020. It says that there was 
light accidental damage to the rear of the third partys car and that a new rear bumper and 
fastening clip were required.
As not all damage shows up on photographs, I find the engineers report more persuasive 
than the photographs. 
So  although Aviva didnt follow a correct process  it reached an outcome that was within 
its rights under the policy term quoted above and that I dont find unfair. Whilst I find it likely 
that there is an ongoing effect on Mr Cs premiums  -  I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Aviva to change the way it has recorded the third partys claim or to reinstate Mr Cs 
NCD.
Aviva  through its claims team - failed to get in touch as in said it would I November 2020. 
The consequences of that unfolded after the final response. 
I think that Aviva prolonged Mr Cs hope that it might change its decision about the claim. So 
the failure to get in touch made it more upsetting for Mr C when Aviva, the investigator and I 
have not found it fair and reasonable to remove the fault claim or to reinstate his NCD. Putting things right
£75.00 isnt compensation for the effect of the claim on Mr Cs premiums. But  keeping in 
mind the payment of £250.00 - I find that an additional £75.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings Ive found 
from Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr C  in addition to the £250.00 already paid  a 
further £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman