DRN-3842808
The complaint
Mrs V complains Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) are responsible for money she 
lost on a high-risk investment that she believes shouldnt have been sold to her.
What happened
Mrs V was sold her bond  a three-year fixed monthly income IFISA bond  in July 2017 by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd). A separate business  Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc)  then 
issued the bond.
BG Ltd arranged applications for the bond through a website it operated. It was responsible 
for advertising and marketing the bond. 
The bond was non-readily realisable. That meant there were rules restricting who it could be 
promoted to, and rules about testing whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. BG Ltd's online application process took steps to meet the obligations 
created by these rules.
While neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd were regulated companies, both were appointed 
representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. As such, Gallium  
which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  is responsible for complaints 
about the acts or omissions either business allegedly made during this time.
Mrs Vs investment in the bond
Mrs V found the bond while searching online. Shes said she was looking for an investment 
ISA to use her annual ISA allowance. She says she was looking for a safe investment that 
would generate a good level of income. Shes told us her previous experience was limited to 
investments in cash ISAs, so she wasnt familiar with investment risk. 
Mrs V applied online via the BG Ltd website. Mrs V invested £20,000, which her 
representative has said accounted for 9.8% of her savings. The bond was to return the 
amount invested after three years, plus provide regular payments of interest to Mrs V.  
In January 2019, Mrs V says she received an email from a further company  B&G Finance 
Limited, which by that point had taken on BG Ltds role. This referred to the fact that nearly 
all the money invested had been lent to one short-term lender.
Following action by the FCA, the short-term lender went into administration in March 2020. 
B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs V has not had her 
invested capital returned to her.
The application process
When Mrs V referred her complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We received eight, but none of these seemed to pre-date Mrs Vs July 2017 
application. As such, the calls havent helped me reach a conclusion for this case.
But Galliums records seem to confirm Mrs V completed an online application in July 2017 to 
set up her bond. This was a key step to get the bonds, so Ive focussed my decision on the 
online process.
Ive not seen Mrs Vs specific online application. But Ive seen screen-prints of each stage of 
the process shed have followed. This consisted of two stages: certification, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to; and then a test to decide if the 
investment was appropriate for Mrs V.
Galliums response to Mrs Vs complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mrs Vs complaint. It said Mrs V had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. 
Gallium made further submissions once Mrs Vs complaint came to us. Ive considered the 
submissions in full. Ive also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, 
which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Vs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary, they made the following points:
Mrs V met the requirements of a high net worth investor (despite being certified as an 
everyday investor).
The part of the application process testing the appropriateness of the bond for Mrs V 
was inconsistent with the FCAs rules and guidance, and didnt gather sufficient 
information.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs V wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
decided not to allow Mrs V to invest. 
For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs V for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, it made the following points:
Mrs V had expressly certified herself as a high net worth investor. They also noted 
confirmations shed agreed about her experience and understanding of the product. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
Mrs V made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
didnt choose to surrender it when receiving the warning email in 2019. So she likely 
would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To do so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulator rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 6 
(Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading). Thats also relevant here.
The rules for selling non-readily realisable bonds in 2017 were set out in COBS 4.7 and 
COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. Ive considered those rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs head of investment policy and UKCFA (UK Crowdfunding 
Association). Ive considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
In summary:
A spreadsheet Gallium sent us confirms Mrs V certified herself as an everyday 
investor, not a high net worth investor. It was our investigators assessment that 
shed also be a high net worth investor, because she had a large amount of money 
invested. 
Im satisfied Mrs Vs self-certification was in line with the information weve had about 
her savings  principally that the £20,000 she put in the bond was less than 10% of 
her wealth. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, as Galliums appointed 
representative, didnt meet the requirements of the rules. If it had, it would have been 
apparent the bonds werent an appropriate investment for Mrs V.
With a more reasonable test of Mrs Vs knowledge and experience of these bonds, I 
find its likely shed have either appreciated their risk and not proceeded, or BG Ltd 
should have concluded it wasnt reasonable for them to sell the bonds to Mrs V.
Gallium have referred to an email from 2019 that talked about the risks affecting 
bonds like Mrs Vs. But Im not satisfied that did enough to inform Mrs V about how 
that related to her specifically. Mrs V couldnt have been aware from the email that 
BG Ltd hadnt taken suitable steps to assess her knowledge and experience when 
selling the bonds to her. 
Had the email done more to make Mrs V aware of that, shed likely have withdrawn 
from the bonds at that point.
For these reasons my decision is that Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. If Gallium had 
acted reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, Im satisfied Mrs V would either not have 
proceeded to make the investments in 2017, or would not have been allowed to proceed. All 
that means Im directing Gallium to compensate Mrs V for the losses shes had as a result.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs V as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if she hadnt invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs V would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs V's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs V fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs V's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs V £250 for the distress caused by the total loss of her investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
(if not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs V agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs V that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically 
paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine 
the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs V wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds is a fair measure given Mrs V's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mrs V would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. Its instead in line with the investment return a consumer could 
have obtained taking a similar level of risk as Mrs V would likely have taken.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Vs complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman