DRN-3148245
The complaint
Miss G and Mr M are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G and Mr M had the benefit of a single trip long stay travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 4 August 2019 to 30 June 
2020. Those dates coincided with a trip aboard theyd planned - which included travel to 
multiple countries.
In March 2020, Miss G and Mr M were visiting a country which Ill call C. After visiting C, 
they were due to travel on to another country, which Ill call A. However, As Government 
announced the closing of its borders as of 16 March until 28 March 2020, except for As 
nationals who wanted to return. And by 16 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) issued advice against all but essential travel to A due to travel restrictions.
So, rather than travelling on to A on 16 March 2020, as planned, Miss G and Mr M decided 
to cut short their trip and returned to the UK on that date instead.
After returning to the UK, Miss G and Mr M made a claim on the policy for their irrecoverable 
expenses, including the costs of unused accommodation and certain flights. URV declined 
the claim on the basis that the reason for Miss G and Mr M cutting short their trip wasnt 
listed as an insured event under the relevant section of the policy.  
Unhappy, Miss G and Mr M brought a complaint to our Service. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and didnt uphold it. Miss G and Mr M didnt agree. So, their complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say URV has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. It should also give 
consumers enough information about a policy to enable them to decide if the policy is right 
for them. This should include an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a 
consumer a summary of certain things  including (but not limited to) what is and isnt 
covered under the policy.
In his view dated 29 October 2021, our investigator set out the relevant terms and conditions 
of the policy and the IPID, relevant to this case. 
I know Miss G and Mr M will be disappointed but Im not upholding their complaint because I 
dont think URV treated them unfairly in declining their claim in this case. I say that because:
Page 20 of Miss G and Mr Ms policy entitled: If you need to come home early 
(Policy B Section 3) sets out the specific set of circumstances in which URV will 
cover claims for cutting a trip short. None of the circumstances described apply here; 
theres no cover for coming home early if a country closes its borders. Or if the FCO 
advises against all but essential travel to that country. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think there was any 
cover in the circumstances Miss G and Mr M found themselves in. 
On the first page of the IPID it says: Are there any restrictions on cover? [] Unless 
agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advises against travel to your 
destination [] But as confirmed at the top of page 1 of the IPID, that document is 
meant to be a summary and doesnt contain the full terms and conditions of the 
contract. The reader is referred to the policy documentation for those. 
Theres a general exclusion on page 15 of the policy which says URV doesnt provide 
cover if you travel against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure (my emphasis). 
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that the policy documents 
werent clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here. Im not persuaded this 
general exclusion is relevant to this case. The applicable FCO advice was issued in 
March 2020  many months after Miss G and Mr M departed for their trip from the 
UK.
When determining this complaint, Ive taken on board all Miss G and Mr Ms comments 
including the case studies theyve referred to in response to our investigators view. But 
when considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of 
this case in light of the policy Miss G and Mr M had the benefit of. Terms and conditions for 
travel insurance  like all insurance policies - vary significantly. 
While I can, of course, understand why Miss G and Mr M returned to the UK when they did  
and why they felt they were in a catch 22 situation  the circumstances which led them to 
cut short their trip arent covered under Policy B, section 3 of the policy terms and conditions. 
And I dont think there are any grounds on which I can fairly direct URV to assess their claim 
on the basis that it would be fair and reasonable for it to treat it as covered under the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss G and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman