DRN-4037128
Complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do more to protect them from an 
investment scam. Mr and Mrs L have been represented throughout this complaint, but since 
most of the payment instructions were given by Mr L, Ive generally referred to him 
throughout the text of this decision
Background
Mr and Mrs L are longstanding customers of Lloyds. Between 2014 and 2017, Mr L made 
several payments from his Lloyds account in the belief that he was participating in a range of 
investment opportunities made available to him by an employee of an international asset 
management firm. In total, Mr L transferred a little under £175,000 and all transfers were 
made in branch. Unfortunately, the person with whom Mr L had made contact wasnt an 
employee of that company at all, but a scammer. 
It's not entirely clear how contact between Mr L and this individual was established. He says 
that he remembers being put in touch with someone who worked in the firms Geneva office. 
This individual was aware that Mr L was interested in niche investment opportunities, 
particularly in firms that were developing new technologies. 
Although the documentation available relating to the payments Mr L made isnt 
comprehensive, it appears that he was periodically invited to buy equities in specific 
companies all over the world, rather than investing his money in a fund that would be 
managed on his behalf. Transactions were supported by independent correspondence from 
representatives of those individual companies. He was asked to sign a Share Purchase 
Agreement which specified the total number of shares he was purchasing in the specific 
company, the share price, the total value and of the shares he was purchasing and so on. 
It was only in 2020 when Mr L wanted to cash in his investments that he suspected he must 
have fallen victim to a scam. The adviser who hed originally been in contact with couldnt be 
contacted. The company he believed hed invested with had since been involved in a merger 
 but no-one at the new company could tell him anything about his investment. Mr L reported 
the matter to the police. A police officer looked at the paperwork he was given in connection 
with the investments he believed hed placed. They confirmed that this documentation was 
fraudulent. 
He complained to Lloyds. It looked into things but declined to reimburse him. It said that it 
didnt think it couldve done anything to have spotted the scam or persuaded Mr L to act 
differently in the circumstances. Mr L referred his complaint to this service. He didn't think 
Lloyds had done enough to protect him from the fraud. He also said that Lloyds was 
responsible for initiating contact between him and the scammer and that the investment 
advisor was recommended by one of Lloyds employees. 
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigators view was that 
Lloyds ought to have identified a scam risk when Mr L was making these payments. It should 
have intervened and questioned those payments with him before allowing them to be 
processed. However, he didnt believe that it wouldve made a difference or that Lloyds 
couldve prevented the scam from taking place. 
The scam was supported by official documentation which, in the Investigators view, was 
sufficiently credible to pass inspection by a bank employee. Although the paperwork was 
identified as fraudulent by the police, the Investigator thought it would be unreasonable to 
expect a Lloyds branch employee to have the same degree of expertise. He also thought the 
fact that Mr L recalls receiving independent advice before making these investments 
wouldve reassured Lloyds that it was less likely that this was a scam. 
Mr L disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He thought that any employee of the bank 
that spoke to him regarding the payments ought to have spotted the fraud risk. If concerns 
about fraud risk had been brought to this attention, he wouldnt have invested without 
seeking further advice. 
He also reiterated his point that Lloyds was the reason he was put in contact with the 
scammer. The Investigator didnt find any evidence to suggest that this was the case and Mr 
L accepts his recollections about such a conversation are limited. Nonetheless, he also 
argues that it was the proactive contact from his local Lloyds branch to persuade him to 
move his savings from a basic account into something where he could earn a better return. 
This contact was the framing for everything that happened next. But for Lloyds intervention, 
Mr L wouldnt have been exploring the possibility of investing his money and wouldnt 
therefore have been taken in by the scam. Because Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 February 2023. I said:
It is common ground that Mr L authorised these payments, albeit he was tricked into 
doing so by a fraudster. These were, therefore, authorised payments and under the 
regulations that were in force at the time and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr 
and Mrs L are presumed liable in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
In summary, Lloyds needed to be on the lookout for payments that were out of character 
and where there was a greater risk of fraud. Im satisfied that this was the case here. Mr L had no history of making international payments and he was periodically transferring 
very large sums of money. This was a significant deviation from the normal activity on his 
account and Lloyds ought to have questioned them before allowing them to be 
processed. I think this pattern shouldve been apparent to Lloyds from as early as the 
third payment, which was for nearly £10,000 and sent to an overseas account. 
Lloyds says that this wouldve happened but that, due to the passage of time, evidence 
showing that it did is no longer available. On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded 
that its unlikely Lloyds did what it shouldve done here. However, that doesnt 
automatically mean that Mr L needs to be reimbursed. I must consider whether an 
intervention by a Lloyds employee wouldve prevented him from falling victim to this 
scam.
Ive thought about this point carefully and Im not persuaded that it wouldve made a 
difference. I dont think the risk of financial harm due to fraud wouldve been quite so 
apparent. The paperwork that was created to support the scam had an air of authenticity. 
Some of those documents used the genuine details and logos of legitimate companies 
that were put forward as potential investment opportunities. On several occasions, the 
scammers also asked Mr L to sign a share purchase agreement specifying the terms and 
conditions of the sale of shares in each company, the price per share and the total value 
of the shares he was committing to purchase. They appear to have used a standard form 
contract and filled in company specific details. 
Mr L has noted that the police identified the paperwork as being fraudulent and has 
suggested an employee of the bank shouldve been able to do likewise. There are some 
subtle indications in these documents that suggest they arent legitimate. I might expect 
a person with a professional background in this area to spot these if they scrutinised the 
documents closely. But Im afraid I agree with the Investigators conclusion that to expect 
such a standard from branch staff wouldnt be realistic. 
In addition, branch staff wouldnt have had the opportunity to see all the paperwork for 
every investment Mr L had made under the direction of the fraudster. When its 
considered as a whole (and with the benefit of hindsight) the risks involved seem much 
clearer. 
It wouldnt be the role of an employee of the bank to identify that a specific investment 
proposal was fraudulent. Instead, Id expect them to be on the lookout for warning signs 
and to relay those concerns to the customer. For example, Lloyds might have enquired 
as to whether Mr L had sought professional advice in connection with his investment 
plans. It seems likely that he wouldve revealed that his plans had been discussed with 
an independent financial advisor. In such a situation, I think Lloyds couldve taken some 
reassurance that hed taken reasonable steps to protect himself from the risk of fraud. 
It has been suggested that Mr L was put in contact with the fraudster by one of the staff 
he met at his local branch. But theres no evidence to support that such an introduction 
took place and Mr Ls own recollections of any such conversation are understandably 
lacking in detail due to the passage of time. 
There is evidence on file that shows that Lloyds recognised Mr L as someone who could 
earn a better return on his savings. It proactively contacted him, invited him to meet with 
a wealth manager in his local branch and that he was offered investment opportunities 
that might have given him a better return than using a mainstream savings account. Hes 
said that, if Lloyds hadnt pursued him as a potential sale, he wouldnt have subsequently 
invested his money under the guidance of the scammers. The argument essentially is 
that, even if it wasnt a Lloyds employee that made the introduction, Lloyds started the chain of events that led to him falling victim to a scam. 
Its impossible to know for sure if that was the case, but I dont think it changes the 
outcome here. In order to find against Lloyds, I have to be persuaded that it has 
breached its legal or regulatory obligations or fallen below the standard prescribed by 
regulators guidance, codes of practice or what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time. I dont think it did anything wrong in proactively contacting Mr L to 
offer him alternative savings and investment products. 
This isnt a straightforward case to reach a decision on. The amount of money Mr and 
Mrs L have lost is very significant and the fraud Mr L fell victim to was callous and 
manipulative. But I must look at the actions and inactions of Lloyds and whether they 
were the effective cause of his losses. I know my findings will be enormously 
disappointing to Mr and Mrs L, but Im not persuaded any failing on its part was the 
cause of their losses in this instance.
Mr Ls representative responded to my provisional findings. His assertion is that a specific 
individual employed by Lloyds was responsible for introducing Mr L to the fraudster. I did put 
this allegation to Lloyds. It hasnt been able to find anything to back up these concerns. 
However, it did point out that a branch employee would only give advice to a customer on 
products provided by Lloyds itself and so it thought it was unlikely that one of its employees 
couldve been implicated. 
When dealing with cases where this uncertainty, I apply a balance of probabilities  that is, 
does the available evidence suggest that it is more likely than not that the claimed version of 
events is the authentic one? While I dont doubt Mr Ls representatives sincerity and 
conviction that this was what did happen, theres no evidence to support his hypothesis.
Overall, while Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs L who have unquestionably been 
the victims of a cruel scam, Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman