DRN-2738149
The complaint
Miss D complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and their failure to process her chargeback.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss D made a purchase totalling £149.95 through an online retailer, who 
Ill refer to as S. S contacted Miss D a few weeks later, explaining they were unable to fulfil 
the order shed made and that, as they were entering administration, theyd be unable to 
process a refund. So, they directed Miss D to her bank to raise a chargeback to receive the 
funds.
Miss D called Lloyds on 13 March and asked them to raise a chargeback on her behalf. 
Lloyds explained they needed supporting evidence to submit the claim to VISA and detailed 
how long the process would likely take. Miss D supplied this evidence the same day. But this 
was sent from an e-mail address that wasnt registered to her Lloyds account. So, on 19 
March, Lloyds e-mailed Miss D asking her to contact them so they could proceed with the 
claim.
There was no further contact between Miss D and Lloyds under October 2020, when Miss 
Ds chased Lloyds for an update on her claim. Lloyds explained to Miss D that she needed to 
supply the evidence from her registered e-mail to continue with the claim, which she then 
did. But shortly after, Lloyds advised Miss D they were unable to proceed with the claim as it 
was now outside of the 120-day time limit set by VISA. Miss D was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss D was unhappy that Lloyds were no longer able to proceed with her chargeback claim. 
She said she wasnt made aware she needed to supply the evidence from a certain e-mail 
account. And she said she didnt receive the email from Lloyds asking her to contact them. 
Because of this, she didnt think it was her fault the claim now fell outside the 120-day time 
limit and thought Lloyds should refund her the value of her claim as well as compensate her 
for the inconvenience shed been caused.
Lloyds responded and partially upheld the complaint. They didnt think they were to blame 
for the claim missing the 120-day time limit. They thought theyd e-mailed Miss D asking her 
to contact them as they needed to confirm the documents provided were from her. So, they 
didnt think they should refund Miss D the value of her claim. But they did think theyd mis-
informed Miss D in October when they asked her to provide the evidence again so they 
could proceed. They thought the advisor shouldve explained then that the claim was now 
outside the time limits. So, they offered Miss D £75 to recognise this and the upset it 
wouldve caused. Miss D was unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the upset Miss 
D felt as shed failed to receive a refund for goods she didnt receive. But he didnt think this 
was because of anything Lloyds did wrong. He explained hed seen the e-mail Lloyds sent 
Miss D asking her to contact them. And this was to the e-mail she supplied the documents 
from six days earlier. So, he thought theyd acted fairly. He understood Miss D hadnt been 
able to view the e-mail, but he didnt think he could hold Lloyds responsible for this. Because 
of this, he didnt think he could hold Lloyds responsible for the claim timing out.
But he did think Lloyds mis-informed Miss D when they asked her to resend the documents 
in October. He thought they shouldve explained at this point that the claim was out of time 
and by not doing so, it gave Miss D false hope. But he thought the £75 Lloyds offered was a 
fair one and because of this, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss D didnt agree. She thought the e-mail sent by Lloyds would most like have gone into a 
junk e-mail folder. And she didnt think this was her fault. She maintained her view that 
Lloyds didnt explain the documents needed to be sent from her registered e-mail and that 
many customers will use more than one e-mail account. So, she thought Lloyds failure to 
explain this led to her claim timing out. So, she thought Lloyds should refund her the value of 
her claim as well as pay her £75 for the inconvenience shed been caused. As Miss D didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss D. I understand she 
placed an order with S expecting to receive the goods she purchased. And, through no fault 
of her own, she finds herself in a position where she is without the goods or the money she 
paid for them. I appreciate how frustrating and upsetting this must be. So, I can understand 
why she holds Lloyds to blame when S directed her to Lloyds as an alternative method to 
receive a refund and this method didnt work out as she planned. But for me to say Lloyds 
should refund Miss D the amount she paid, Id need to be satisfied that it was their error that 
led to the chargeback claim timing out. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Lloyds system notes which details the conversation held when Miss D made them 
aware she wanted to raise a chargeback. Ive been unable to listen to the call recording, so 
Ive considered these notes and Miss Ds testimony to decide what I think, on the balance of 
probability, was most likely to have been discussed. From this, I think Miss D was made 
aware of how the chargeback process work, and the timescales involved within this. Ive also 
seen Miss Ds e-mail address was confirmed and this was the e-mail address registered to 
the account.
After the conversation, Miss D supplied the evidence Lloyds needed to raise a chargeback 
on her behalf. But this was sent from an e-mail address different to the one she confirmed in 
the previous call. I think if Miss D had been made aware the evidence needed to be sent 
from the registered e-mail, its likely she wouldve done so. So, I dont think this was made to 
clear Miss D.
But Miss D herself has confirmed that she has several e-mail accounts. And shes confirmed 
the evidence she supplied was sent using one of these. So, I think the e-mail address she 
used was an active account she was managing at the time. As this wasnt registered to her 
account, Ive seen evidence that shows Lloyds replied to that e-mail account, asking Miss D 
to contact them so they could continue with the chargeback. Theyve explained they did this 
to ensure the documents sent were provided by Miss D, and I dont think thats an unreasonable explanation as they have a duty to protect Miss Ds accounts and information. 
So, although Lloyds couldve been clearer in the first call, I dont think this led to Miss D 
missing the chargeback deadline.
Miss D says she didnt receive the e-mail Lloyds sent. And shes speculated that it may have 
gone into a junk folder, which she doesnt feel is her fault. But I dont think Lloyds wouldve 
been able to reasonably foresee that the e-mail wouldnt be received in the correct inbox. 
Lloyds sent an e-mail to Miss D within a reasonable amount of time, to an e-mail address 
Miss D has confirmed she was using and was active. Because of this, I think Lloyds acted 
reasonably and gave Miss D the opportunity to contact them so the claim could be 
continued. Unfortunately, Miss D didnt see this e-mail. But I dont think this was Lloyds fault. 
So, I dont think I can hold them responsible for this.
There was then no contact between Miss D and Lloyds until October when Miss D called for 
an update. And I can understand why Miss D may think that Lloyds couldve sent further 
requests for contact, by other means. But I dont think there was anything to suggest to 
Lloyds that the e-mail hadnt been received. And I think they needed to allow Miss D the 
chance to respond to that e-mail, as they needed to verify that the e-mail account, and the 
information sent using it, was Miss D. And I also think Miss D wouldve been made aware of 
how long the chargeback process usually takes on the first call she made. So, I think Miss D 
also had the opportunity to chase Lloyds sooner, and I cant see that she did. 
The time limits of chargeback claim are set by the card providers scheme rules, which in this 
case is VISA. They set out clearly that there is a 120-day time limit. So, the time for Lloyds to 
submit a claim expired in June meaning when Miss D contacted them in October and 
provided the evidence from the registered e-mail account, the chargeback couldnt be 
submitted. I dont think this time scale was missed by an error Lloyds made and because of 
this, Im unable to say they should refund Miss D the value of her claim which she may have 
received had the claim been submitted.
But I do think Lloyds wouldve been aware the claim had fallen outside of the time limit when 
she contacted them in October. Ive seen system notes that show this was noted. But 
instead of explaining this to Miss D on the first call she made, she instead was asked to 
provide the evidence again so they could progress the claim. I think Lloyds were unfair to 
ask Miss D to do this, as it gave the impression a chargeback could still be raised. So, I think 
this gave Miss D false hope which then added to the frustration and disappointment she 
wouldve felt when she was later told the claim could no longer be processed. Lloyds have 
recognised this and offered Miss D £75 to recognise the upset this caused. I think this offer 
is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve suggested had the offer not been made. 
Because of this, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss D was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt provide 
her with a refund of the money she paid S, for goods she didnt receive. But I hope it 
explains why I dont think Lloyds made an error that led Miss D to finding herself in that 
position.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman