DRN-2348199
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how a claim has been recorded on his motor insurance policy, which is 
underwritten by AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its clear from the information available that Mr R spoke to AXA to notify it of the 
incident. So AXA has an obligation to accurately record it. I can see AXA told Mr R 
the claim may be recorded as a fault claim based on its initial contact notes. But 
these notes also show AXA told Mr R that as liability hadnt been determined, it 
needed to make him aware of the possible outcomes.
Ive considered the evidence provided by AXA to show how it recorded Mr Rs claim. 
AXA has recorded Mr Rs claim as information only because no claim was made by 
either party. I think that is reasonable in this case. So Im satisfied AXA has treated 
Mr R fairly based on what it was told about the accident.
 
Mr R has complained about the increase to the premiums of his policy as a result of 
the claims being recorded. And although his policy was sold by a broker, the base 
price of the policy was set by AXA as the insurer. Insurers can choose what 
information to consider when setting the price of a policy. Insurers then look at these 
factors and decide what weight to place on them. The resulting premium is based on 
what risk the insurer wants to take. I have no power to tell insurers which factors to 
take into account, or the weight it places on them. However, I can consider whether 
AXA has treated Mr R fairly, and in the same way it would have done any other 
customer in the same circumstances.
Ive considered the evidence provided by AXA to show how Mr Rs premium increase 
was calculated. Having done so, Im satisfied AXA has treated Mr R fairly when it 
priced his policy based on the factors it considered. And Im also satisfied the price 
increase would have been reflected to other customers in the same circumstances.
AXA has previously compensated Mr R for giving him incorrect information about his 
premiums and referred him to the broker, so Im satisfied it has now corrected this 
error. As such, I cant fairly require AXA to do anything further in regard to this issue.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman