DRN-3088500
The complaint
Miss H complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans 
irresponsibly provided her with a loan which was unaffordable.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Miss H with a loan as follows:
Date Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentAPRTotal amount 
payable
10/05/2018 £2,500 24 months £189.91 89.9% £4,557.84
Miss H mainly said that Likely Loans should have seen from its credit checks that she had 
multiple payday loans at the time and she was caught in a payday loan spiral. She felt it 
should have asked for proof of income and checked her bank statements. 
When Miss H told Likely Loans in January 2019 that she was in financial difficulty a reduced 
monthly payment was agreed and she has been making reduced payments since. As far as 
I am aware that is still the position and the loan isnt yet fully repaid. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint. He thought that Likely Loans did 
sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in the 
information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Miss H. So our investigator 
didnt think Likely Loans had been wrong to provide Miss H with the loan and he also didnt 
think Likely Loans had acted unfairly towards Miss H in any other way  so he didnt uphold 
her complaint.
Miss H disagreed with our investigators view. She has sent us a credit report she 
obtained showing information she felt Likely Loans hadnt properly taken into account 
plus some further information (from another credit report) in support of her complaint 
that she had multiple payday loans outstanding when Likely Loans provided this loan. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Miss H and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Likely Loans gathered some information from Miss H before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income and carried out a credit check and relied its own internal scoring 
system to assess affordability before deciding to approve the loan. 
Likely Loans told us that Miss H had said on her application that she was living with her 
parents, employed with an annual income of £27,000 and that the purpose of the loan was to 
pay for car purchase/repairs.
Likely Loans calculated that Miss Hs monthly take home pay worked out at around £1,811 
per month. And after allowing for her spending on existing credit commitments of £9,000 
(which was the higher of two different figures as shown on its own checks) it worked out that 
Miss H should still have around £1,171 spare cash each month after making the monthly repayments on this loan. So Likely Loans felt that the monthly contractual instalments that 
she had signed up to make on this loan should have been comfortably affordable for her.
I've taken into account what Likely Loans has said about how it calculated the 
affordability of this loan before it agreed to lend to Miss H. But, I dont think Likely Loans 
made a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss H based on the information it had 
gathered.
I say this because there was an evident discrepancy between the figures it gathered about 
Miss Hs use of existing credit. The credit file information it gathered showed details of eight 
active credit accounts with a total balance of £4,566. Likely Loans also gathered data that 
showed Miss H had a total outstanding credit balance of £9,000. So there was an amount of 
£4,434 outstanding credit potentially unaccounted for.
Likely Loans had decided it didnt need to gather any further details about Miss Hs monthly 
expenditure, so it was relying mainly on what its credit checks revealed. I think that, as a 
responsible lender, Likely Loans should have been prompted to do more in-depth checks to 
find out what other credit Miss H was paying for  particularly as it told us it believed the 
£9,000 figure was the more reliable. 
I also think Likely Loans should have considered more carefully that if the £9,000 figure was 
correct, why someone with the amount of disposable income its checks suggested Miss H 
had would have needed to make use of expensive credit to this extent. And I dont think, 
based on what Likely Loans had in front of it, I can fairly say that Likely Loans saw enough to 
reasonably be satisfied that Miss H was going to be able to make the repayments for this 
loan in a sustainable way. 
Rather than just drawing its own conclusions from what it saw, I think Likely Loans 
needed to do more to ensure it had a proper understanding of Miss Hs actual financial 
situation before it was able to fairly assess her loan application. 
I think Likely Loans will be aware already that a lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, 
this may explain any differences. But bearing in mind the apparently conflicting 
information it gathered from its credit checks, as well as the amount borrowed, the total 
repayments Miss H would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan term 
I think that Likely Loans should have carried out a complete review of Miss Hs finances 
and done more to verify what she had told it. I cant see that it did that  so Ive looked at 
what I think a proportionate check would likely have revealed had Likely Loans done this 
at the time.
I've looked at a credit report provided by Miss H which I think is a useful guide to 
understanding Miss Hs overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if Likely Loans had 
done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this 
loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Miss H. 
I can see that she already had multiple outstanding short-term loans when she applied to 
Likely Loans for this loan. And I think, had it done a proportionate check, Likely Loans 
wouldve most likely realised that this loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for 
Miss H when she was already struggling to manage her finances without needing to rely to 
this extent on credit. I think Likely Loans ought to have realised that Miss H had been 
struggling to manage her debt for a number of years and she was using expensive credit to effectively move her debt around  mostly using expensive short-term loans to provide the 
new credit she needed to do this.
I've taken into account the loan purpose, so Likely Loans shouldve realised the loan it 
provided would likely add to her overall debt. And even if Miss H had used the loan to repay 
some of her other debt (which she may have done looking at her credit file) it wasnt enough 
to make any lasting improvement in her overall financial situation given the extent of her debt 
and the smaller size of the loan Likely Loans provided. 
I think the true overall picture showed that Miss H had money problems which shed 
struggled with for some time and Likely Loans lending decision, which was based on 
limited information and assumptions that werent borne out by what a proportionate check 
wouldve revealed, was unfair. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Miss Hs financial situation improved in the months 
following the loan. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that Likely Loans helped Miss H to improve 
her financial situation. All this leads me to conclude that Likely Loans should not have 
provided this loan. 
As Miss H has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what Likely Loans did wrong. So, I think Likely Loans needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss H some other way. As far as I can see it provided appropriate forbearance 
when Miss H needed more time to pay and that arrangement seems to have been 
workable for her. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over and above 
what I've set out below.
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Likely 
Loans to take the following steps to put things right.  
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss H is happy with what I've said and Likely Loans has confirmed it accepts my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Likely Loans for responding positively to my provisional decision. In the circumstances, 
as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things rightIn line with this Services approach, Miss H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed when she took out this loan. But she has had to pay extra on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. With this in mind, 
Likely Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Miss H received as a result of being given 
the loan. The payments Miss H made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Miss H having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Likely Loans should continue to 
work with Miss H when arranging an affordable payment plan bearing in mind the 
need always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Miss Hs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely 
Loans must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely 
Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman