DRN-3260082
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid their 
travel insurance claim for a trip that was cut short. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a platinum branded annual travel insurance policy, provided by URV.
Mr and Mrs C were on holiday abroad. On 13 March 2020, their airline cancelled their return
flights on 26 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all non-essential
international travel due to the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs C were unable to get in contact with their airline but, after speaking to the FCDO
and URV, they booked what they say was one of the last available flights back to the UK. Mr
and Mrs C returned to the UK on a flight which departed in the early morning of 22 March
2020.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their policy with URV for their additional travel costs in
returning to the UK. URV said Mr and Mrs Cs policy didnt provide cover for the
circumstances they found themselves in. However, URV offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £150
compensation for providing them with incorrect information during a telephone call as well as
for a delay in sending a copy of the relevant call recording to them.
As Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought it
would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr and Mrs Cs claim as covered under their
policy. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to
me to decide. I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint earlier this 
month. In it, I said:
Im aware that Mr and Mrs C have also complained to other businesses about the events
arising from the same incident. However, my role in considering this complaint is limited to
deciding what, if anything, I think URV as Mr and Mrs Cs travel insurer should do to put
things right.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs trip was cut short due to circumstances outside of their control,
and that they held a platinum level of cover. However, no insurance policy covers every
eventuality and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in
return for the payment of a premium.
URVs obligations to Mr and Mrs C under its contract with them are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in their policy. Mr and Mrs Cs policy, at page
17, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment charges (if you have to come home early)
says URV will pay for certain charges and expenses if a policyholder has to return home
early because of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the curtailment
could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you purchased this
insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Mr and Mrs Cs trip was cut short because their airline cancelled their return flight
(presumably due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19). This isnt a listed reason for
which their policy provides cover, so I dont think their claim is covered under the 
Curtailment charges section of their policy. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr
and Mrs Cs travel insurance policy (including Section B8 and Section B10), but I dont think
Mr and Mrs C held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Cs policy suggests that no cover is
provided if a policyholder remains abroad in a country to which the FCDO has advised
against all or all but essential travel. There may be certain limited situations where, if I didnt
think an insurer had clearly and transparently highlighted certain policy provisions to a
policyholder relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for remaining
abroad against FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept
a claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask URV to do so here.
This is because Mr and Mrs Cs trip wasnt cut short because FCDO advice changed  it was
cut short because their airline cancelled their return flight. And, the FCDO didnt advise
British travellers abroad to return to the UK until 23 March 2020 (by which time Mr and Mrs C
had already cut short their trip). The FCDO advice against non-essential international travel
of 17 March 2020 specifically stated that the FCDO wasnt advising British people who were
overseas to immediately return to the UK at that point.
I understand Mr and Mrs C were in an unexpected and unprecedented situation and hadlittle choice but to arrange their own return flights. However, their policy simply doesnt cover
the circumstances they found themselves in. I dont think the wording of Section B1 is
misleading, and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask
URV to accept their claim outside of the policy wording.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs C were given incorrect information by URV about whether
their claim would be covered. It would, of course, have been helpful if URV had provided Mr
and Mrs C with confirmation that their policy wouldnt cover their claim from the outset. But
this doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable for URV to accept their claim as a result.
Ive thought about whether the information provided by URV financially disadvantaged Mr
and Mrs C, and I dont think it did. I think, given the circumstances Mr and Mrs C were in, it
was likely theyd always have incurred extra costs in returning to the UK, even if URV had
provided them with correct advice about what their policy did and didnt cover at the time.
So, overall, I think the £150 compensation which URV has offered to Mr and Mrs C in
recognition of this error (and its delays in sending the call recording) is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I dont intend to direct URV to do anything further.
URV responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs 
C replied with their detailed comments. Ive summarised what I consider to be the key 
arguments below:
Our investigator found in their favour initially;
The cancellation of a flight by an airline is a serious breach of contract and theyd 
expect, at a minimum, for cover to be provided for this scenario in all travel insurance 
policies;
The curtailment section of their policy covers quarantine, and they were placed in 
quarantine abroad;
Limitations to the policy are set out in the small print. Such limitations should be more 
clearly highlighted, and the policy has therefore been mis-sold;
URV had a duty of care to return Mr and Mrs C to the UK;
If theyd remained abroad against FCDO advice theyd have had no cover under their 
policy and if they hadnt returned to the UK when they did, theyd have been stuck 
abroad;
The cover they purchased was misleading to the extent that URVs own employees 
were confused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs C have said, but I wont be changing my 
provisional decision. Ive addressed what I think are each of the key arguments in turn:If either party disagrees with our investigators opinion, they have the right to ask for 
an ombudsman to review the case as the second and final stage in our process. Ive 
independently and impartially reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs complaint afresh, and I dont 
agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator;
Very few travel insurance policies provide cover for curtailment of a trip in all 
circumstances. Most travel insurance policies on the market, like the one Mr and Mrs 
C held, provide cover for curtailment only on the occurrence of one of a list of 
specific, insured events which are set out in the policy. In my experience of dealing 
with travel insurance complaints of this type, I dont think the omission of curtailment 
cover because of the cancellation of a flight by the airline is either a significant or 
unusual restriction on cover. And, its not for me to tell an insurer what situations I 
think it should provide cover for. Instead, I need to decide whether I think URV has 
fairly assessed Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy they purchased;  
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs C being placed in 
quarantine abroad was the reason their trip was cut short and why they returned to 
the UK. I think the reason for Mr and Mrs Cs claim was because their airline 
cancelled their original return flight; 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim hasnt been declined based on any of the policy exclusions. 
Instead, I dont think Mr and Mrs Cs claim arose from a listed, insured event under 
the curtailment section of their policy. If Mr and Mrs C feel their policy has been mis-
sold, theyd need to complain to the broker who sold them the policy as that 
business, and not URV, is responsible for the sale;
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs C found themselves in, but I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected URV to have provided them with assistance in booking a 
new flight home. This isnt part of a travel insurers role (other than in situations 
involving medical emergencies under Section B2 of the policy) and the responsibility 
for arranging a new flight back to the UK was Mr and Mrs Cs;
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs point about having no cover in the event theyd 
remained abroad. I also understand they potentially faced being stuck abroad if they 
hadnt returned to the UK when they did. But my outcome needs to be fair and 
reasonable to both parties  not just to Mr and Mrs C. Based on the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, these arent reasons upon which I can fairly ask 
URV to accept a claim which simply isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy; 
I think Mr and Mrs Cs policy terms and conditions clearly outline the cover available 
under their policy. Its unfortunate URV didnt give them more accurate advice, but I 
think the offer of compensation which URV has made in this regard is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Leah NagleOmbudsman