DRN-1310074
 
The complaint
Mr H complained about ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (trading as Autonet) 
on behalf of his company V. He isnt happy about the way it setup his commercial motor 
insurance policy which led to an increase in costs.
What happened
Mr H approached Autonet when he was shopping around for a new policy at the time of 
renewal. When he went through the quotation process a fixed penalty notice was recorded 
incorrectly (it was a year out). Shortly after the policy was setup he was asked for a further 
£126 in premium. This was because the insurer verified that the fixed penalty shouldve been 
recorded as 2016 instead of 2015.
As Mr H wasnt happy about this he complained to Autonet. He said that he wasnt asked a 
clear question about his motoring offences. He was asked roughly when the fixed penalty 
was given, and he answered accordingly. Mr H gave a rough estimate of when the offence 
took place, but he wouldve checked this if he was asked for a specific date. Autonet 
maintained its position so Mr H complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He agreed that the 
question shouldve been clearer and thought Autonet should pay Mr H £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
Autonet didnt agree, it thought Mr H was asked a clear question and he shouldve checked 
and provided the correct year of the fixed penalty notice. So the matter has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call when Mr H took out cover and I agree that the question couldve been 
clearer about when he was given a fixed penalty notice in relation to a speeding offence. He 
was just asked for your own SP50 when was that, roughly but, importantly, his actual 
answer was correct. Mr H told the call taker that the offence date was 2016 but he did say he 
thought it was three years ago. This led the call taker to suggest it must have been 2015 and 
both sides then agreed it was probably 2015 as opposed to 2016. But I agree that had Mr H 
been made aware of the importance of this he wouldve checked, and he was persuaded 
against using the correct year in any event.
Given this, and the importance to Mr H of getting a competitive price (which was clear in the 
call) I think this may have affected his decision to go with this policy and it clearly has caused a fair degree of hassle. Mr H has had to chase Autonet about this and has had the 
threat of having his policy cancelled hanging over him. 
So I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do in this case is for Autonet to pay Mr H £50 
compensation for the hassle and inconvenience caused. I wont interfere with the cost of the 
policy as he is paying the right amount now as his fixed penalty is recorded correctly and 
that price is a matter for the insurer, not Autonet, in any event. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to pay Mr Hs company £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman