DRN-3556107
The complaint
Mr H on behalf of the executors of Mrs Hs estate is unhappy about Aviva Insurance UK 
Limiteds handling of a subsidence claim under a home insurance policy.
Instead of the executors of the estate for ease Ill refer to Mr H throughout the decision. I will 
refer to Aviva rather than its representatives throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr H said the delays caused by Aviva and its representatives handling the claim meant hed 
no choice but to run up some legal costs to try and resolve the issues. The delays that 
occurred meant the sale of the property involved took much longer than it should have done. 
There were further running costs and a loss of investment opportunity and income to Mr H 
and the other executors. On their behalf Mr H brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator said we cant under our rules make awards for the financial losses of 
executors or beneficiaries. Awards can only be made to losses of the estate. He said we 
couldnt ask Aviva to pay the costs for the executors, these costs had to be from the estate. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence of this so Aviva didnt have to pay. Our 
investigator said investment and income losses were private to the individual executors and 
not to the estate. He said Aviva didnt have to pay for any losses the individual executors 
and beneficiaries had suffered.
Regarding the legal costs these had been paid for by the executors from their own pockets 
not the estate. So, he couldnt ask Aviva to consider these costs. For compensation our 
investigator said he couldnt consider Mr Hs personal distress and inconvenience. Overall 
though Aviva did accept that the claim could have progressed more quickly, and it offered to 
pay the estate £1,000 compensation for delays and issues caused.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
In my original provisional decision, I said:
Under the Financial Conduct Authority rules that we follow Disp 2.7.2 applies here. It refers 
to complaints that can be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or deceased person 
who would have been an eligible complainant) by the eligible complainant or authorised by 
law. It is accepted by Aviva that Mr H is acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs H in this 
complaint.
But this does mean that awards are to Mrs Hs estate and we cant award personal amounts 
lost by beneficiaries or executors. Mr H in this case is a representative of the estate. The 
consumer/eligible complainant is Mrs Hs estate so it can only be estate losses this service 
can ask Aviva to pay. It also means we cant award Mr H personal compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
I dont think theres any doubt that the claim did take a long time to resolve. But theres no 
doubt that subsidence claims do generally take a lot longer to resolve compared to most 
other types of claim.
When the claim was made there was a debate around the ownership of the vegetation that 
was thought to be part of the subsidence problem. The ownership of this was disputed with a 
neighbour. The neighbour wasnt willing to allow easy resolution of the potential subsidence 
cause by a traditional repair means. By traditional means I refer to removing or significantly 
cutting back vegetation and trees, Avivas preferred option. This was a worry for Mr H as the 
estate was looking to sell the property.
Other usual subsidence claim checks were carried out too. Such as involving an arborist, 
drainage contractors and a heave assessment.
A copper root barrier was considered by Aviva. But there would still need to be plant and 
machinery onsite and despite attempts to convince the neighbour to allow this, he wouldnt. 
So, this option couldnt be pursued any further.
Mr H was still keen to sell the property and was taking legal advice, including from a 
barrister, about court options against the neighbour. Mr H said he felt he had to act as Aviva 
had said his claim was on hold when he needed to get it concluded. But I can see from 
Avivas records it made him aware that such legal costs were not included within the policy. 
Also, Aviva records showed Mr H had said he wanted to take the neighbour to court, but 
Aviva wasnt sure the lawyer was aware of up to date case law and it was worried Mr H 
might end up wasting his money. In discussion with Mr H Aviva advised it didnt think there 
was a good prospect of success against the neighbour in court.
Theres no doubt the claim reaching a conclusion was driven by Mr H through his efforts. It 
was his idea to consider a different kind of repair using high powered vacuum suction 
machines and a lime root barrier. This didnt require any works that would upset the 
neighbour or require any neighbour permission. Eventually the work was undertaken, a cash 
settlement was paid for the property reinstatement work and the house was subsequently 
sold.
But not before Mr H had been charged legal costs of over £23,000. Mr H later raised his 
concerns about the upkeep costs of the property while the claim was outstanding and the 
loss of investment and income due to not being able to sell the property earlier. Aviva didnt 
accept this it said the legal costs were disproportionate and the root barrier, drainage work 
and cash settlement for the reinstatement work had cost substantially less than the legal 
advice Mr H had paid for. Aviva said it didnt know how much experience the law firm had in 
dealing with subsidence cases and noted it had gone to counsel rather than a specialist 
surveyor for advice. Aviva said the crucial expert evidence of the structural engineer hadnt 
been passed to counsel either. Aviva noted the Association of British Insurers Tree Root 
Agreement wasnt mentioned at all in the legal advice. Or that Mr H could have come to this 
service for free rather than pay for legal advice. It continued that when you spent £23,000, 
you had no expectation that it would be recovered from your buildings insurers.
legal costs
Noted in Avivas file is a call from early 2020. Mr H was aware Aviva had a legal team, but 
he was going to talk to his own lawyer first.
Aviva pointed out that it felt the legal costs Mr H later produced were high.In November 2020 it pointed out via the loss adjuster We are concerned to see that your 
solicitor appears to have been pursuing a recovery claim against your neighbour. If insurers 
recovery rights are prejudiced, thats a reason for us to discontinue handling your claim for 
damage to your property. Presumably your solicitors were aware of your insurance claim. 
They will have warned you about the risk of prejudicing any recovery. Fortunately, it was 
able to confirm the case hadnt been prejudiced.
It continued Your policy covers repairs to the property. If any legal assistance is required, 
we use specialist solicitors. They, in turn, only need counsels advice in exceptional 
circumstances. There is no cover under the policy for the legal costs that you have incurred. 
Unfortunately, we are not willing to contribute to them, particularly since they were incurred 
without our knowledge or consent.
I think this is fair comment from Aviva. Its clear that initial discussions took place between 
Mr H and Aviva, but it then appears he did make his own choices regarding legal action and 
then carried on without further input or advice from Aviva.
So, I dont think it matters if these costs were privately paid for by the beneficiaries or if they 
were paid by the estate. Aviva had pointed out these costs werent covered under the policy. 
I think thats reasonable.
continuing costs
Mr H has laid out expenses and costs he thinks should be paid by Aviva due to the amount 
of time it took to resolve the claim. In particular he highlighted certain items that I think are 
costs an executor would potentially pay out for and would reclaim from the estate. But there 
needs to be evidence and proof needs to be in a format Aviva can accept.
The expenses noted include gardening charges, postage, boiler repairs, utility bills, home 
insurance and council tax while the claim was running on. Subject to enough proof of this 
being charged to the estate. I think the evidence provided by Mr H could be considered by 
Aviva if Mr H agrees to the evidence being shared with Aviva.
I think Aviva would be liable to pay, subject to proof the money was reclaimed from the 
estate, for around 10 months of costs. Mr H has suggested sale of the property would have 
completed around 20 May 2020 compared to 5 March 2021. I think this is a reasonable 
calculation. The proportion of the costs from 20 May 2020 onwards for the annual bills 
should be paid along with any of the bills that were paid for in their entirety for work or 
services carried out after 20 May 2020. Mr H can provide a calculation on this for Aviva to 
check and confirm if he wants Aviva to see the details we currently hold on file and any other 
invoices for costs noted in the amounts Ive listed above. This is all subject to suitable proof 
these amounts were charged to the estate.
If Mr H agrees and Aviva sees the evidence, if it wishes to see other proof before it will 
settle, I expect it to be very clear about what documents it needs. Mr H can confirm if he can 
or is willing to provide these. I will then conclude an outcome in my final decision.
investment and income opportunities missed
I think I can understand how Mr H feels about the missed opportunities and the delay caused 
to the beneficiaries. But I dont think this can count as a loss to Mrs Hs estate. It is a loss 
personal to the beneficiaries and not something I can make an award for.
compensationIve mentioned earlier that Mr H was one of the main reasons why the claim did in the end 
get concluded when it did. So, theres no doubt he has put time and effort into dealing with 
and producing information to validate the claim. This will have caused him inconvenience 
and stress. Although I accept this it doesnt mean I can ask Aviva to pay compensation. I 
mentioned this at the start of my findings. To do so would be outside the scope of our rules. I 
cant make an award to Mr H as he is only acting on behalf of the eligible complainant. But 
Aviva has made an offer of £1,000 for this as it accepts there were delays and the claim 
could have been resolved more quickly. This amount is the amount paid by the estate for the 
policy excess so effectively is a refund of that cost.
Responses to my original provisional decision
Mr H sent in detailed further submissions covering a wide range of points. He also referred 
specifically to significant new evidence. But Ill respond only to the really key elements and 
in relation to what I see as directly linked to the original complaint.
Mr H referred to why the property wasnt put up for rental, and how much income could have 
been gained from this compared to the situation they found themselves in. Mr H also talked 
about if the property had been mortgageable to obtain liquid funds to the same value of the 
house then the executors could have used these funds as they so wished. Mr H suggests 
this means the complaint will need a second provisional decision to allow Aviva to consider 
it.
Mr H is unhappy that Aviva has many cases with this service, and he feels is therefore more 
knowledgeable in how to put its evidence across. Whereas he is purely a layman and hasnt 
had any feedback from this service regarding how he could put forward his case more 
effectively. Mr H said that he indicated previously that in view of the size of the amounts he 
feels have been lost he expects to be given further opportunities to put forward further 
calculations in other ways. This way he feels he can satisfy any requirements this service 
may have to agree to uphold the complaint for the amounts he wishes to claim. He wants 
feedback before any final decision is issued.
Mr H is unhappy that my provisional decision quotes representations from Aviva but none of 
his and he feels this is one sided. He suggests some fact checking is required here. Ive 
considered all of Mr Hs varied points, but Ill use Mr Hs bullet points here to highlight some 
of his key issues:
No legal cover in policy. Mr H contends this is completely irrelevant. As his claim is for 
Aviva failing to carry out its obligations.
Up to date case law; and chances of success. Mr Hs barrister felt the prospects of 
success under certain criteria would have been high. Aviva mixed up recovering repair 
costs with Mr Hs right to require the neighbour to stop the hedge being an ongoing 
nuisance.
The legal costs compared to the lime root barrier being disproportionate. How could Mr H 
compare these as they were unknown in advance. The barrier cost is therefore 
irrelevant. He was considering this on the basis of the potential housing market value 
crash.
Mr H said in comparison to his legal costs, the cost of the lime root barrier was very 
similar to the copper root barrier. These arent substantially less than the legal outlay.
Crucial expert evidence. This was only a short letter produced by a surveyor after a brief 
visual inspection. This had been completely superseded by Avivas structural engineers 
reports. So, it wasnt crucial at all, it made no difference.
ABI tree root agreement. Had no impact on Mr Hs right to deal with the nuisance with 
the neighbour.Mr H could come to this service for free. Aviva gave the impression Mr H didnt need to 
as it didnt appear Aviva was failing to carry out any legal obligations. The process has 
taken a long time with this service, without considering the expected risk of a collapsing 
housing market.
Aviva email November 2020. Mr H said suggesting he was pursuing a recovery claim 
was ridiculous. He said this was to intimidate him so he wouldnt complain.
Aviva knew throughout he was dealing with his solicitor. Mr H said theres a phone call 
recording that shows this.
Disallowance of all legal costs. All the legal costs are down to Avivas failures. Whatever 
happened there would have been legal expenditure. Mr Hs solicitor had to do a 
significant amount of work to understand the situation. At the very least Aviva should 
cover the first cost of £3,621.60.
Not claiming for gardening or postage  Mr H doesnt have any costs for these items 
during the time limit set. But Mr H is claiming for additional conveyancing costs. For the 
contract rider while completion couldnt occur with their buyers renting arrangements. 
He also wants such conveyancing costs related to extending the rental period. Along 
with the amounts accepted in the in provisional decision which Mr H said were council 
tax, home insurance, gas, electricity, broadband, utilities, and boiler repairs.
Mr H sent in details of invoices and spreadsheet calculations. Mr H said he was expecting 
this service to direct Aviva to pay. But requests that only his file titled information pack 
ongoing costs zip can be passed on to Aviva. He said earlier examples should not be sent to 
Aviva. Mr H is wary Aviva may ask for things that are impossible or unreasonable to provide. 
As hes already spent a large amount of time getting details to this stage.
Mr H said he hoped the intention was for he and Aviva to agree before I issue a final 
decision, and this service will step back in if the parties cant agree. Mr H would rather not 
have to go to court.
Mr H says Aviva will contrive to use the provisional decision about proof that amounts were 
reclaimed from the estate to refuse to pay. He said residual estate details show the full 
estate accounts. Mr H said numbers 4 and 12 make it clear around all expenses deducted 
from the estate leaving the nett residual estate and thats been distributed equally. And each 
executor individually claimed has been reimbursed by the estate. Mr H would like this 
service to direct Aviva that this service has now seen proof of expenses regarding the 
estate.
Aviva responded to say it will only pay the estate direct, and only when it sees evidence to 
show the estate paid out these amounts. But based on those principles it agreed it will pay 
for:
Standard electric charge.
Council Tax.
Gardening.
Home insurance.
Boiler repair.
Aviva said this would be dependent upon the property being vacant and no new tenant or 
owner living there during the accepted period.
So, in my second provisional decision I said:Regarding the property rent or mortgage options these dont seem to me to be points raised 
previously by Mr H directly with Aviva, so I cant comment on them. I can only deal with the 
original complaint brought to this service.
As these are new issues and to use Mr Hs own words significant new evidence I cant 
comment on such evidence as Aviva would need to see it and respond directly to Mr H on 
those points. I dont know if this will lead to a further complaint.
Based on Mr Hs response and the time he must have taken to prepare it I fear that I wasnt 
clear in my provisional decision. And if thats the case I wish to apologise. Ill aim to clear 
these points up here.
Mr H feels he is at a disadvantage due to a lack of knowledge of our process compared to 
Aviva. I can confirm we consider all the evidence from both sides and accept that consumers 
may not have the experience an insurer may have. Thats why my provisional decision refers 
to Mr H providing proof in terms of the costs to the estate for Aviva to review.
Mr H says he hasnt been given feedback, Id hoped my provisional decision was clear on 
this point. Aviva will be reviewing Mr Hs evidence with the key factor being - has the amount 
claimed for been paid by the estate  thats it. There are no special requirements or need for 
any specialist knowledge, purely evidence that shows the estate paid for the items. I agree 
that Aviva should reimburse the estate for such amounts subject to the proof from Mr H. I 
dont think Mr H is missing out any particular skills or ability to navigate the complaint. This 
service aims to ensure the process can be used by a layperson. This should hopefully put 
Mr H at ease that he isnt suffering any issue of perceived disadvantage he might currently 
feel.
Based on Mr Hs stance that he doesnt want Aviva to see his earlier evidence or most of the 
later evidence including the extra details he has now produced, that makes everything Ive 
written above a bit of a moot point. If Mr H only wants Aviva to see his one set of breakdown 
costs not the actual evidence, then Aviva cant be expected to pay.
Just to make the point clear, the provisional decision gave room for some costs to the estate 
to be paid by Aviva. But as this service has stated throughout this isnt about the individual 
costs of the executors. The costs need to show a loss from the estate. The reason for this is 
to ensure the estate (the eligible complainant) is treated fairly and reasonably in line with the 
rules and jurisdiction that binds this service. If that evidence isnt made available to Aviva, if 
Mr H isnt willing to provide it, or cant get it, it cant be put before Aviva and it cant be 
expected to pay.
The provisional decision allowed Mr H and the executors a further opportunity to produce 
records showing the cost impact on the estate. It is up to the executors/estate to allow Aviva 
to review it. At the moment Mr H is declining to provide the detail to Aviva so without Aviva 
seeing these Mr H isnt going to reach a settlement on the areas Ive said Aviva should 
review.
Either Mr H provides evidence to Aviva, or he doesnt. If he does then I expect Aviva to be 
fair about any other evidence, it needs so Mr H can confirm or decline to provide it. I think 
thats a fair outcome.
Within the amounts I did refer to I dont recall referring to broadband costs and I didnt link 
that to utilities. So, I dont think that broadband cost is included within the amount Aviva 
needs to consider. Also, for the additional conveyancing costs Mr H now raises these appear 
new so need to be discussed directly with Aviva not through this service.Mr H says this service should direct Aviva to pay based on the evidence hes not willing to 
allow Aviva to review. But this service has stated Aviva only needs to pay the proven estate 
expenses and Aviva is entitled to see the evidence of this. Mr H has put much effort into 
explaining what I need to do, and I accept that as a layperson he isnt as familiar with our 
processes as Aviva will be. But it is still a fair and reasonable outcome for Aviva to see the 
evidence for itself before it agrees to pay.
I note the Mr H has confirmed the costs will not include gardening or postal charges.
In relation to the May 2020 to March 2021 timeline Id like to confirm that these dates were 
put forward by Mr H and I feel are reasonable.
Aviva has accepted that subject to evidence it will settle the costs based on certain 
conditions. But I dont agree with its point about tenants or owners. I think the first provisional 
decision dealt with that issue by putting in place a time limit for the costs due to the delays 
involved in resolving the claim. The timeline was from 20 May 2020 compared to 5 March 
2021 and I think thats the important time limit rather than Avivas point about whether or not 
the property was vacant.
As Mr H doesnt want this service to pass on any of his other or earlier evidence to Aviva 
there isnt much more I can say. Its for Mr H to decide if he wishes to provide directly to 
Aviva the evidence of the estates costs for the items agreed and the estate account details 
for Aviva to pay.
My second provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Aviva Insurance UK Limited to:
Pay costs for expenses proven as incurred by the estate towards boiler repairs, utility bills, 
home insurance and council tax while the claim was running on. This is for the proportion of 
costs between 20 May 2020 and 5 March 2021, for bills that started before this date and any 
costs entirely incurred between the two dates Mr H can provide a calculation and evidence 
directly to Aviva.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Aviva responded and agreed to pay the following costs based on the evidence it had been
sent:
Council tax
Gas
Electric
Phone
It calculated this cost to be a total of £486.38 and it has agreed to add interest of £67.27. It 
also agreed to the additional insurance premium costs of £620.17 plus interest of £87.59. In 
relation to the boiler and travel costs Aviva offered £333.20 plus interest of £44.41. Aviva 
also accepted that the claim did cause a delay in the sale of the property, the new owner 
rented and so Aviva agreed to pay the solicitor fee of £500 plus interest of £56.Aviva 
accepted the costs provided on Mr Hs own spreadsheet at £2195.03.
Aviva confirmed no gardening and postage costs were presented.It concluded regarding rent figures provided, that this wasnt part of the complaint. Aviva said 
Mr H should be approaching its claims office. It confirmed it would be willing to review this.
Mr H sent in a further detailed response with an extra round of additional attachments. Ill 
keep the details of his response to the main factors:
Loss of rental income - Mr H will now make a further separate complaint to Aviva for this 
issue.
Regarding allowing Aviva to access the evidence details and any issues Mr H has 
resolved this by passing the details directly to Aviva.
Mr H continued that if the issue is that the first of these spreadsheets has very minor 
redactions then this hasnt been explained to him. He says the points redacted only 
apply to transactions outside of this claim but within the estate and so completely 
irrelevant to the claim. If this is a problem Mr H said he can resolve this with a completely 
unredacted spreadsheet if necessary.
Mr H said previous evidence wasnt suitable to send to Aviva as it contained sensitive 
personal information.
Mr H referred again to the scope of the expenses list and suggested there was some 
confusion over these. He referred to each and every one being laid out in detail at the 
same time. Mr H also pointed out that he never claimed for gardening or postage costs 
and he doesnt know why they were added to the list while extra conveyancing costs are 
not included. He thinks it should be. But he said if this final point isnt considered under 
this complaint, he will include it with his loss of rental income claim he will make to Aviva.
Mr H noted there was no mention of a gas standing charge even though there was 
mention of the electricity standing charge. But for the sake of simplicity regarding this 
claim Mr H has chosen not to claim for any gas usage only for the gas standing charge.
Mr H doesnt understand why broadband isnt included as a utility. He thinks it is and 
should be included. But if he cant include it, he will add it in to his further future 
complaint to Aviva. Mr H said that he needed the broadband when he was visiting or 
sleeping at the property.
Mr H brought up the time period. He said the home buildings insurance clearly had to 
continue up to the date of sale completion.
Legal costs  Mr H said Aviva did explicitly tell him to pursue legal recourse against the 
neighbour. He also said it was the only option available according to Aviva. Mr H said 
this service hadnt been provided with a full file and Aviva hadnt provided a note with 
details after a telephone call had been transferred between Aviva staff and this was 
when he was told to take the legal action. Mr H wants a time extension granted as he 
has asked Aviva for a copy of the call recording. Otherwise this will become another 
further complaint later on. Mr H also provided call recordings he said proves Aviva were 
encouraging his use of legal proceedings.
Mr H did get a copy of the call referred to above and pointed out that within the call he 
mentions sending a solicitors letter to the neighbour.
In my third provisional decision I said:
I take Mr Hs point about a loss of rental income claim and Aviva has said Mr H can make 
contact about this. Mr H has now resolved any issues with the spreadsheets by passing 
these on to Aviva directly. Im unaware of any issues he refers to about his redactions. 
Originally, Id noted that Mr H could claim for gardening and postage but as he isnt going to, 
Im a little unsure why the point has been raised further. Mr H refers to confusion over the 
expenses he claims but Im not sure where that confusion is. In my second provisional 
decision I referred to utility costs rather than specifically gas or electric. Importantly, Aviva 
has referred to and made an offer regarding both utilities, so I hope that clears up the issue. Aviva has also agreed to the extra solicitors cost of £500 so I think that point has reached a 
fair outcome too. I think Ive been clear throughout that I hadnt included broadband as a 
utility and that remains the position now. But I note Aviva has agreed to pay costs towards 
the telephone, I think thats fair. The time period for these costs to apply is the time frame put 
forward by Mr H and accepted by this service and Aviva, I see no reason to change or make 
any further comment on this. I think Aviva has made a fair offer in relation to this.
I have reviewed the telephone conversations Mr H referred to and forwarded to this service. I 
think its clear from the conversations that Mr H explained what he was doing during these 
calls. Mr H told Aviva his plan of action showing his determination to get a resolution with his 
neighbour. Thats the main point of call recording Mr H passed to this service. Aviva in 
telephone discussions confirmed in relation to the questions and points Mr H was raising that 
the answers would depend on the lease and his solicitor would be best able to comment. At 
another point Aviva confirmed is it didnt know what more it can add. From the calls Ive 
reviewed I didnt hear at any point Aviva saying its going to pay for this, or that it is 
responsible. Theres nothing here in evidence that makes me think Aviva need to pay 
towards these legal costs. The decision to involve a solicitor seems to have been made by 
Mr H and the estate. Aviva didnt appear to make the decision and didnt agree to pay for 
such a decision. I can see theres a note within the extra correspondence sent this time by 
Mr H dated 3 April 2020 where he says in relation to this subject we may need to discuss 
our insurance taking over, as our legal costs are mounting up. I think that Mr H is saying 
here that Aviva isnt involved, and our costs gives the impression hes talking about his or 
the executors costs.
I think Aviva has taken a pragmatic view on this complaint and come up with a fair and 
reasonable offer. For clarity this service checked with Aviva asking who it would be willing to 
pay the offer amount to. Its complaints handler responded to say If Mr H provided details, I 
will pay directly to him. Should this cause any issues with estate or family, then he will be 
responsible for discussing with them. I think in the circumstances that is a fair outcome and 
one that avoids any of the issues Mr H referred to previously of Aviva finding ways not to 
pay. I think Aviva has found a way to simplify all of Mr Hs concerns and issues here and in 
the circumstances its a fair and reasonable outcome to all the issues raised within this 
complaint.
My third provisional decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance UK.
I require Aviva Insurance UK to pay £2,195.03.
Responses to my third provisional decision
Aviva accepted the provisional decision.
In Mr Hs response he confirmed he was happy agreement had been reached on the 
continuing costs amount of £2,195.03.
Mr H agrees that Aviva didnt authorise the legal costs. Although he maintains Aviva should 
pay anyway as it did nothing to progress the claim. He pointed out that Aviva said nothing 
could be done without at least partial removal of the hedge, which the neighbour was 
preventing. Mr H said it was he that found a workable solution. Mr H also said Aviva said it 
didnt need to do anything under the insurance policy. Because of this Mr H said his only 
option was legal action. Mr H accepts he expected to have to foot the legal bill. But Mr H 
continued that now knowing Aviva had made untrue statements, led to him incurring the 
legal expense which means Aviva should be liable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both sides for the responses. And I can see the point Mr H is making. But 
Aviva didnt authorise Mr Hs legal costs and it was his choice to take that approach. So, 
none of the details provided change my provisional decision and it now becomes my final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance UK to pay £2,195.03.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance UK.
I require Aviva Insurance UK to pay £2,195.03.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman