DRN-3946834
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS) passed his credit card 
debt to a third-party to manage the debt, while he had an arrangement to repay the balance 
to BoS.
What happened
Mr O says that in 2016, he made an arrangement with BoS to repay his credit card debt. He 
says that BoS sent him a letter in November 2022, letting him know that he was late in 
repaying the debt, despite him having made a payment. Mr O says he then received a letter 
dated 30 November 2022, which let him know that BoS had passed his debt to a third-party 
to manage  Ill refer to this firm as M.
Mr O says he has continued with the arrangement he has with BoS and has made payments 
to it on 14 December 2022 and 4 January 2023. And he intends to stick to this arrangement. 
He feels that BoS have been unfair in transferring the debt to M. 
Mr O also complains that BoS have made a number of erroneous claims, which he says 
arent correct. I have summarised these below:
The arrangement was broken.
BoS were unable to contact Mr O to rectify the situation  however Mr O says he 
goes into branch on a weekly basis.
He has been paying a separate debt collection agency, since 2016  again this isnt 
correct because he has been making direct payments to BoS over the counter in 
branch.
BoS claim they cant provide Mr O with statements of his payments after December 
2019  this isnt correct because he has a statement from September 2021.
He says BoS told him that referring his account to a debt collection agency doesnt 
impact his credit score  however his credit report contradicts this statement.
Mr O says this situation has caused him a lot of stress. And he has lost out because his 
credit score has been affected by the debt being managed by a debt collector. In order to 
resolve things, Mr O would like BoS to:
Take the debt back from the debt collection agency and continue with the 
arrangement in place to repay the debt.
Fix any damage to his credit report.
Apologise and compensate him to the time spent on the matter and the stress it has 
caused.
BoS responded to Mr Os complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said it was part of the terms of 
the agreement that it could instruct a debt collection agency to manage the account. And so 
it hadnt done anything wrong when it instructed M. 
Unhappy with BoSs response, an Investigator looked into the matter. They didnt think BoS 
had done anything wrong. And they thought it was fair of BoS to pass Mr Os account to a 
debt collection agency to be managed.
Mr O didnt agree with the Investigator. Ultimately, he remained of the view that is was unfair 
of BoS to pass his account to a debt collection agency when he was still repaying it. 
Because Mr O didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made a number of points relating to the things he says BoS have done wrong. In 
reaching my decision, Ive havent reflected all the information provided by both parties. But 
Id like to reassure both parties that this isnt because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. To be clear, the 
main crux of Mr Os complaint is that BoS have instructed a debt collection agency to act on 
its behalf in recovering the outstanding balance remaining on Mr Os credit card account.
Based on everything Ive seen; I wont be upholding Mr Os complaint  I appreciate this 
decision will come as a disappointment to him however I will explain my reasons for this 
below. 
I can see Mr Os account defaulted in 2015. An account will generally default when someone 
fails to meet financial obligations under the agreement. In Mr Os case, I can see this 
happened because the account fell into arrears. Once the account defaulted, it became 
repayment only and no interest was applied to the account. 
The credit agreement and the terms of the account allow for BoS to instruct agents to act on 
its behalf in collecting the debt. It also allows BoS to sell on the debt. Mr Os original credit 
agreement states:
We may transfer any or all of our rights or duties under this agreement to another
organisation (including organisations outside the European Economic Area). If we do
this, we may let them have any information about you or an additional cardholder.
We may also arrange for any other person to carry out our rights or duties under this
agreement. Your rights under this agreement and your legal rights (including under
the Consumer Credit Act 1974) will not be affected. 
Such terms are commonly included in credit agreements, and I dont find these terms to be 
inherently unreasonable or unfair.  From what I have seen, BoS havent (yet) sold the debt, 
and it has just instructed M to manage the debt and recovery of the debt on its behalf. Mr Os 
account defaulted many years ago and is no longer a fully functioning account. I dont find it 
unfair that BoS has instructed a third-party to manage the account on its behalf. 
I take on board Mr Os point that he was keeping up with repayments  and this might well 
be the case. But BoS are still entitled to instruct agents to act on its behalf even if payments 
are being made to the account. BoS have stated that it took a business decision to outsource management of the account, and in the circumstances of this complaint, where 
the account has defaulted, there isnt anything wrong or unfair about this. 
I havent seen any evidence that the outsourcing of the debt has impacted Mr Os credit 
score. Credit scores can be determined by a number of different factors. So, it would be 
difficult to say that the outsourcing of the account was the reason for any change in Mr Os 
credit score. In any event, I havent found it unfair of BoS to pass Mr Os account to a debt 
collection agency, and so I wont be asking it to do anything further here.
To address Mr Os point about the statements. BoS are no longer required to produce a 
monthly statement for the account  this is because the account has defaulted - there is no 
interest being applied to the account and the account is repayment only. It appears BoS has 
been sending Mr O an annual statement to show the payments hes made over the year  
which is sufficient.
I have also listened to the call Mr O had with an agent of BoS, in which he feels he was 
treated unfairly. I havent found Mr O was treated unfairly on this call, nor have I found that 
the representative was rude or unhelpful. To the contrary, I have found that the 
representative was trying to help Mr O in providing an explanation as to why his account had 
been passed to M. I have noted that the representative eventually terminated the call, 
however, in my view this was a reasonable action as the call became unproductive.
Overall, I havent found that BoS has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further for Mr O in relation to this complaint. I suggest Mr O contacts M to make 
payment arrangements based on his affordability.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman