DRN-2311781
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain Great Lakes Insurance SE have declined their Caravan Insurance 
claim.
All references to Great Lakes include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
Mr and Mrs A, and Great Lakes, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs A were away from their caravan from November 2018 and noticed the 
damage when they returned around March 2019. Great Lakes agreed some strong 
gale force winds were recorded in the area during this time but very little recorded 
rainfall. The issues with the roof could be consistent with storm damage. But I also 
need to be satisfied a storm was the main cause of the damage. In this case with the 
information available to me I dont think it is. Ill explain why
Great Lakes said they believed the water ingress issues came from the roof and a 
failure of the ridge capping. Great Lakes sent an expert in Caravan repair to inspect 
the Caravan. They said the capping was inadequate to prevent water ingress and 
provided further detail as to why this was the case
The Caravan expert also provided detail about a separate issue relating to the 
window leaking. They said sealant had perished and water was slowly absorbing into 
the roof space above the gutter  giving the impression the window was leaking but 
wasnt the case.
Mr and Mrs A provided an estimate from a roofer to repair the roof. On the estimate it 
is noted the damage has been caused by adverse weather. But this is an estimate 
and not a report  and it doesnt provide any further detail about the damage caused, 
to explain why it was caused by adverse weather. Great Lakes findings were 
consistent with those later provided by the Caravan expert  and the expert has 
provided detail as to why this was the case. 
So, Im more persuaded by what Great Lakes have said
The policy says it doesnt cover loss or damage caused by water leaking in through 
body joints or seals. It also excludes deterioration, wear and tear or loss or damage 
directly or indirectly arising from faulty workmanship, faulty design or using faulty 
materials. Considering what Ive said above, I dont think Great Lakes were 
unreasonable in applying these exclusions.
Overall having considered everything, I wont be interfering in Great Lakes decision to 
decline Mr and Mrs As claim and I wont be asking them to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman