DRN-2384317
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage to their conservatory roof.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim for storm damage in February 2020, after wind lifted panels on 
their conservatory roof and rainwater damaged the roof blinds. Fairmead appointed a third 
party to manage the claim, who in turn appointed contractors. The water damaged blinds 
were cash settled.
Fairmead went on to appoint a specialist glazing company to inspect the conservatory, and it 
declined this part of the claim. In doing so, the surveyor relied on wear and tear issues, and 
the lack of leadwork to seal the join between the conservatory and the house. The surveyor 
also reported that Mr P confirmed the roof panels moved about when windy; and he had 
previously fitted metal brackets to try to secure them, which hadnt worked. The surveyor 
noted the brackets arent usually used on conservatory roofs, and the only reason they 
would be installed is to try to prevent the roof sheets from slipping; which he thought 
suggested an earlier issue. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about the decision to decline the roof repairs, and they noted that 
before the glazing companys appointment, they had been offered a cash settlement for the 
repairs. Mr and Mrs P disputed they fitted the metal brackets and said they were already in 
place when they bought the property about 12 years ago. They also disputed the roof was 
leaking in any of the areas highlighted by the surveyor. 
Fairmead maintained its decision to decline the conservatory, but it offered Mr and Mrs P 
£250 for the service they had received. They remained unhappy, so they contacted our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. Because Mr and Mrs P disagreed, their complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Mr and Mrs P have made the point that the issues raised by the surveyor are not issues they 
are claiming for, and nor is rainwater entering the property via those areas. They have also 
removed a cover (top cap) from a glazing bar, which wasnt removed by the surveyor, and 
they say the bar is bent in the middle by 20mm, which they believe was caused by wind. 
They have provided photos and videos to support what they say.
Mr and Mrs Ps theory about the glazing bar and supporting evidence have since been put to 
Fairmead, and a regional manager for the specialist glazing company has explained the 
following:
- The roof sheets appear to be too narrow for the aperture. The aluminium glazing bars 
rely on the roof sheets to help stabilise any sideways movement, as they are prone to 
slight movement if they not correctly packed out for support. The tolerance of the roof 
sheets should be 4mm down both sides and the difference should be packed out with 
glazing packers to help maintain the glazing bar equally. The small tolerance allows 
for expansion, and for rainwater that passes under the gaskets to run out into the 
integral chambers.
- He concluded the roof sheets have been under cut in the width and the panels not 
correctly packed out, thus allowing the roof sheets to freely move around in the 
glazing aperture; and due to the under sizing of the sheets, fall through.
- If the sheet is too narrow or not correctly packed out, removing the top cap allows the 
aluminium bar underneath to move freely left and right. When the sheet isnt narrow 
or its correctly packed, there is no room for movement. The main job of the top cap, 
which Mr and Mrs P removed, is to create compression and keep everything locked 
in place. The removal of the top cap has taken away the compression and enabled 
movement. 
- Mr and Mrs Ps own photos show the bar isnt bent, but rather its simply without the 
compression required to keep it in place.
The glazing companys further observations have been put to Mr and Mrs P, so they have 
had an opportunity to comment.
Mr and Mrs P said the panels had been without any issues for the last 20 years, so they are 
of the view that the storm in question caused the current problem. They also reiterated they 
had previously been offered a cash settlement for the roof repairs, and they noted they had 
been insured by Fairmead for at least the last four years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
Its not disputed that there were storm conditions on the day in question, and damage to a 
roof is typical of that caused by storm winds. So, Im satisfied the first two conditions have 
been met. However, on balance, Im not persuaded the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. Ill explain why.Although Mr and Mrs P have offered their own theory about the bar being bent, they havent 
provided any expert opinion to support what they say. On the other hand, the expert opinion 
offered by Fairmead, about the bar not being bent, but simply being free from compression, 
is credible in my view. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps photos show the bar is further away 
from the adjacent bar in the middle, compared to the ends. However, I consider it likely it 
would be subject to such movement without the cover and/or packing keeping it in place. 
Their photos dont persuade me the bar is bent or damaged.
I accept Mr and Mrs Ps conservatory roof panels hadnt lifted before. However, that doesnt 
necessarily lead me to conclude the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
I also accept there was a misunderstanding about who fitted the brackets. However, Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to doubt the surveyors professional opinion about the brackets 
being fitted to address an existing issue with movement of the sheets. 
Having considered all the arguments made, Im more persuaded by the expert opinion of the 
specialist glazing company, than anything Mr and Mrs P have presented. On balance, Im 
persuaded the panels lifted due to being too narrow or insufficiently packed. So, although 
I accept the winds were a contributing factor, which were particularly strong on the day, 
I consider it likely the winds simply highlighted existing problems. 
So, in conclusion, Im not persuaded Fairmead unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim for 
their conservatory roof.
I acknowledge upset was unfairly caused to Mr and Mrs P having initially been told their roof 
would be covered. I can also understand their upset at the reasons they were first given for 
their roof being declined, given much of the surveyors comments focused on areas they 
werent claiming for. However, Mr and Mrs P have confirmed they received the £250 
compensation Fairmead offered, and overall, I consider £250 to be fair in terms of 
acknowledging the upset caused.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P. But for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman