DRN-3796281
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly defaulted his credit card.
What happened
Mr J held a credit card with Barclays. Due to a number of missed payments, Barclays wrote 
to Mr J on 26 January 2022 saying that if payment wasnt received before 26 February 2022 
then the account would be defaulted, and this would be reported on his credit file.
Mr J made a payment to the account on 25 February 2022, but Barclays still applied a 
default to the account. Mr J complained about this and Barclays agreed it had made a 
mistake. It removed the default from its systems and Mr Js credit file and offered Mr J £100 
compensation.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred the complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint. Our Investigator thought the £100 Barclays had 
offered was fair and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr J didnt accept this. He replied saying he was concerned there was still a digital footprint 
of the incorrect default and that Barclays had shared his data without his consent. He 
provided correspondence that hed had with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in 
support of this.
The complaint has now been passed to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J had missed a number of payments prior to the default notice being sent by Barclays. So 
it was within its rights to explain that it was planning to default the account if payment wasnt 
made by a certain date. However, Barclays doesnt dispute that this payment was then made 
in time and that the default was applied in error. What is in dispute is what Barclays has 
done to put matters right.
Ive no doubt that it would upsetting for Mr J to have made payment in time and be told that a 
default had been applied regardless. However, Ive also noted that Barclays did immediately 
accept it had made a mistake and remove this from Mr Js credit file as soon as possible. 
Mr J also told our investigator that he was using this as a chance to investigate Barclays 
processes and suggested he in fact purposely delayed payment in order to see how 
Barclays would respond as he saw this as a chance to raise wider issues for Barclays 
customers in general. This was Mr Js decision, but it does mean that he bears some 
responsibility for the events leading up to the incorrect default.
Our role is to look into individual complaints. I understand Mr J has wider concerns regarding 
Barclays business practices that he wishes to raise. But thats not something I can 
investigate here. Thats a matter for the industry regulator  the FCA. Our Service looks into 
individual complaints rather than wider systemic issues. 
I can look into how Mr J has been individually treated as a Barclays customer. Whilst the 
error of applying a default might have had a temporary impact on Mr Js credit file, hes not 
told us that it prevented him from applying for further credit during this time. And I also note 
that, not only has Mr J suggested that his actions were part of an investigation he was 
conducting, but he had also missed some payments already on this card. So, there wouldve 
been adverse data reported on his credit file prior to the default. Barclays also removed the 
default in a timely manner. Based on this, Im satisfied £100 is a fair amount in the 
circumstances for the individual impact this has had on Mr J.
Ive noted Mr Js concerns about data breaches by Barclays. I can see hes reported this to 
the ICO, and this is the correct organisation to deal with concerns about data breaches. I 
have taken the data breaches into account when considering the amount of compensation. 
But the data breach Mr J complains about is the incorrect reporting of the default  not a 
separate complaint point. Its been accepted that the default was incorrectly recorded. And 
Ive explained why I remain of the opinion that £100 is fair.  
Mr J is concerned that there may be a footprint of the incorrect default. Ive seen no 
evidence that this is the case. And correspondence from the ICO that Mr J has shared with 
us confirms the ICO is of the same opinion. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to take any 
further action in this regard.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, and I dont require it to pay any further compensation or take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman