DRN-3285580
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed his 
account without notice or explanation, and terminated his Bounce Back Loan facility.
What happened
Mr G held a business current account with HSBC. He successfully applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, drawing down a loan of £50,000 on 26 May.
HSBC began a review of Mr Gs account on 18 August 2020. It applied a restriction to the 
account while it did so, limiting Mr Gs access to it. The bank also restricted Mr Gs access to 
his personal account, which is the subject of a separate complaint.
Following the review, HSBC decided to close Mr Gs account and confirmed this to him in 
writing on 14 January 2021. It subsequently terminated the Bounce Back Loan facility. The 
bank used the closing account balance of around £7,000 to partially repay the Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr G doesnt think HSBC acted fairly in how it restricted his account or recalled the Bounce 
Back Loan. He doesnt think there were any grounds for the banks actions and that they 
severely impacted his business, which was already dealing with the difficulties of the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
HSBC says there were no errors in how it handled things. It said that it restricted and 
reviewed Mr Gs account to comply with its legal obligations, and that it ended its relationship 
with Mr G in line with the terms and conditions of his accounts. 
Our investigator didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong. She said, in summary, 
that:
HSBC had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting and 
reviewing Mr Gs account. While the review had taken around three months to 
complete, shed seen that this was a result of the banks ongoing investigation.
The decision to close Mr Gs account and terminate the Bounce Back Loan facility 
had been made in line with the applicable terms and conditions. 
HSBC had used the closing account balance to offset the balance Mr G owed on the 
Bounce Back Loan now that it had to be repaid, which was also allowed for under the 
terms and conditions.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view, highlighting in particular that he didnt think there 
was any reason to recall the Bounce Back Loan or to use the closing account balance to 
repay it. So his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account allowed HSBC to suspend its services. HSBC 
has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. And while I note Mr G was 
unhappy at the lack of information or explanation he received about the review, HSBC 
wasnt required to give him notice or its reasons. It also wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require the bank to do so now.
I recognise that the immediate and indefinite restriction of his account wouldve caused Mr G 
concern and inconvenience. But as Ive not found that HSBC did anything wrong in 
undertaking the review or applying the restriction, it follows that I dont think its responsible 
for any impact these actions might have had on Mr G. 
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from Mr G. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to close Mr Gs account 
immediately in certain circumstances and Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so here. 
Again, the bank isnt required to explain the reasons for its decision to Mr G and I cant fairly 
require that it share any more information on this than it already has.
HSBCs review also led it to terminate Mr Gs Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. 
After closing Mr Gs account, HSBC applied the funds held therein as a partial repayment of 
the balance that was now owed on the Bounce Back Loan account. The terms and 
conditions of the loan gave HSBC the right of set-off  that is, it could use money held in 
any of Mr Gs accounts to repay any amounts that he owed the bank. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong when using the funds in Mr Gs account to pay down the outstanding 
balance on the Bounce Back Loan. 
Looking at everything then, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in its review and 
restriction of Mr Gs account or in its closure of the account and Bounce Back Loan facility. 
So Im not requiring the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman