DRN-3701949
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in March 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr A into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Shawbrook didnt respond by the extended deadline, so the case was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him. So I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr A fairly and he lost out 
because of what Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I have noted that two third party companies were involved in installing the panels. But as the 
same person was the director of both companies, I am satisfied that the companies were 
associates of each other within the meaning of sections 184 and 187 of the Act, and so 
section 75 still applies.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr As monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman