DRN-4452185
Complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional-sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable because 
she was already in arrears with other lenders and she was already struggling to pay 
essentials. 
Background
In July 2018, Moneybarn provided Miss M with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,987.00. Miss M didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 60-month conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the entire purchase price of £6,987.00. The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £6,324.58 and the total amount to be repaid of £13,311.58 
was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £225.62. 
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss M unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss M could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss M. During this assessment, Miss M provided details of her monthly 
income which it validated by asking for copies of bank statements from Miss M. 
Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Miss M which showed some adverse 
information in the form of a County Court Judgment (CCJ) recorded against her around 
one and a half years prior to this application. Miss M didnt have any other defaults recorded 
against her.
Furthermore, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Miss M already owed plus a 
reasonable amount for Miss Ms living expenses was deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss M says she was already 
struggling at the time, was already in debt and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss M and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I think that Moneybarn should have applied a bit more 
scrutiny to what it had. In my view, bearing in mind it will have seen an albeit historic county 
court judgement (CCJ) registered against Miss M as a result of its credit search, Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn needed to take further steps to ascertain Miss Ms actual living 
costs from the bank statements it obtained, rather than assuming Miss Ms living expenses 
in order for its checks to have been reasonable here. 
As Moneybarn should have done more, Ive gone on to decide what I think Moneybarn is 
more likely than not to have seen had it done that here. Given the circumstances here, I 
would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable understanding about Miss Ms 
regular living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss M has provided us with. Having done so, this 
information appears to show that when Miss Ms committed regular living expenses are 
combined with what the credit checks showed (I note some of the existing lending Miss M 
cites was taken out in the lead up to this application and is unlikely to have shown up on the 
credit search as a result) and are deducted from the income going into her account at the 
time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. 
I accept that the information provided might not fully depict Miss Ms financial position. I note 
Miss M says that she only started working for her employer a month previously and her 
income fluctuated. That may be the case, but from what I can see Moneybarn averaged the 
income for the period of time it considered and I dont think that this is unreasonable as its in 
line with what lenders typically do in relation to variable incomes. 
Furthermore, the income argument is being made with the benefit of hindsight. Miss M didnt 
volunteer what she is now saying about her employment situation and I also have to weigh 
this against the fact that she decided to purchase a car at this particular time.
It might also help to explain that what Im required to think about here in order to determine 
whether Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss M, is whether Moneybarn 
would have lent had it done what I think it should have. And having considered everything, 
Im satisfied that Moneybarn is unlikely to have found out about what Miss M is now telling 
us even if it had carried out further checks. 
In my view, any further checks carried out are likely to have led to Moneybarn concluding 
that Miss M had sufficient funds for the monthly payments to this agreement to be made in a 
sustainable manner. Particularly as while Ive seen the payment from the creditor Miss M has referred to, Moneybarn is any event likely to conclude that there was significant 
discretionary spend on Miss Ms statements too. 
I think that if questioned on this Miss M is likely to have said she would reduce her 
discretionary spending, given she wanted the finance for the vehicle at the time. And given 
Miss Ms statements dont show that she was reliant on high-cost lending to make ends 
meet, I dont think that accepting such and assurance would have been unreasonable given 
the circumstances here.
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with  Miss M did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that doing more wont have prevented Moneybarn from providing these funds, 
or entering into this agreement with her. 
Overall Im therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Miss M when it lent 
to her and Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman