DRN-2265693
The complaint
Mr C says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly. He says that his 
circumstances were not considered. He says that Cashfloat failed to recognise that he was 
in financial difficulty when it lent. And he says his overall pattern of lending showed that the 
loans were harmful and he became reliant on the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr C between August 2016 
and December 2019.
loan date takenamount 
borrowednumber of 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 12/08/2016 £200 2 14/10/2016
2 17/10/2016 £300 2 16/12/2016
3 30/12/2016 £500 3 15/03/2017
4 18/03/2017 £600 4 14/07/2017
5 14/07/2017 £500 4 13/10/2017
6 22/11/2017 £300 3 15/12/2017
7 15/12/2017 £500 4 28/02/2018
8 25/04/2018 £500 4 16/08/2018
9 04/09/2018 £350 3 14/12/2018
10 17/12/2018 £550 4 16/04/2019
11 31/12/2019 £550 3 11/01/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought the pattern of lending after loan 4 
was harmful and Cashfloat shouldnt have approved any lending past this point. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It provided detail on why its checks were 
adequate for each loan and said that the checks showed the loans were affordable for Mr C. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and Ive have explained why below.
Mr C didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr C had with Cashfloat. 
So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
Cashfloat said in response to our adjudicators opinion that the checks it made were 
proportionate. And it detailed why this was. But Ive not considered the checks Cashfloat 
made partly due to Mr C accepting our adjudicators opinions about the earlier loans and 
partly due to how I have looked at the later loans. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 11 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken out four loans in over seven months. So Cashfloat 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not he was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Cs indebtedness was becoming unsustainable.
Mr Cs first loan was for £200 and loan 4 was for was for £600.  At this point 
Cashfloat ought to have known that Mr C was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 4 onwards Mr C was provided with a new loan usually within a few days or 
weeks of settling a previous one. And there were no significant breaks in the lending 
before this. 
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 11 was 
taken out over three years after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr C had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The length of time and the number of loans over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 11 and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 4 onwards, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr C loans 4 to 11.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 4 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Cs credit file. If 
Cashfloat has sold any of the loans Cashfloat should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman