DRN-3632627
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as Z has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.  
What happened
Z held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. Z claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
RSA initially declined Zs claim but looked into things again after the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case. 
RSA then said the policy would potentially provide cover but there wasnt any indication of a 
case of Covid-19 manifesting at Zs premises, which was required by the policy. 
Z said a number of customers had experienced symptoms of Covid-19 and provided a 
statement from one of its customers who Ill refer to as E. E said they felt unwell after leaving 
the premises and woke up the next day feeling very unwell with a sore throat and aching 
body. They said they called their sister, who is a nurse, who advised that they had typical 
symptoms of Covid-19. E said they called Z on 20 March 2020 and were also tested later in 
the year for long Covid, although the test was negative. Another customer, who Ill refer to as 
G, initially provided a statement which said theyd felt unwell a few days after attending Zs 
premises but didnt want to provide further information. 
Z said it had taken the decision to close on 21 March 2020, communicated the message to 
staff on 22 March and to customers on 23 March. 
RSA didnt think this was sufficient to show that Covid-19 had manifested itself at Zs 
premises. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Z brought its complaint to our service. It was unhappy with 
RSAs decision to turn down the claim and thought its customers witness statements should 
be enough to demonstrate that Covid-19 had most likely manifested itself at its premises. 
Our investigator looked into Zs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think Z had shown it was most likely Covid-19 had manifested at the premises. 
Z asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Zs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Zs claim.
The relevant extension in Zs policy covers:
Loss as a result of
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human
            disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Zs claim, 
the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested, I think someone 
would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms at the 
premises which, on the balance of probabilities, were Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers. Ive therefore considered the information Z has provided. 
I understand Z isnt looking to rely on the witness statement from G which says they felt 
unwell in the days after leaving Zs premises. However, for completeness, as G says they 
were unwell in the days after, I dont think this demonstrates that they had symptoms at Zs 
premises. 
The witness statement from E says they felt unwell after leaving Zs premises but, as Z has 
attested, I understand this submission to mean that E began to feel unwell while at the 
premises and became progressively worse after leaving Zs premises. 
However, even if I accept that E was unwell while at Zs premises, Im not persuaded that 
RSA have acted unreasonably by concluding that this testimony alone isnt enough to show 
that Covid-19 most likely manifested at Zs premises. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that E 
was at Zs premises on 18 March 2020 and Ive noted that Es sister believed her symptoms 
were consistent with Covid-19. Ive also noted that Z decided to close before it was required 
due to concerns about Covid-19. However, I have to bear in mind that many people who 
were unwell at the time didnt have Covid-19 and Es symptoms could also be consistent 
with many other illnesses. I recognise why Z has been unable to provide some of the other 
information RSA indicated might be helpful but, in the absence of other evidence from the 
time, Im not persuaded that Z has provided enough to show that its more likely than not that 
a case of Covid-19 manifested at its premises. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Z was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont believe I can fairly require RSA to pay Zs claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman