DRN-4171480
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Zurich Insurance PLCs refund of their travel insurance 
premium. My references to Zurich include its agent who collected the premium of the policy.
What happened
On 16 June 2022 Mr and Mrs H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with 
cover from that date to 15 June 2023. Zurich was the insurer.
The annual premium was £2,921.36 which Mr and Mrs H paid in a lump sum when they took 
out the policy. The cost included an additional premium to cover Mr and Mrs Hs pre-existing 
medical conditions. 
Mr and Mrs H cancelled the policy on 28 July 2022 as they said they no longer needed it 
having cancelled a holiday they were due to go on later in the year. Theres no evidence that 
they claimed for the holiday cancellation on the policy. Zurich refunded 50% of the premium, 
so £1,460.68, which it said was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs H complained to us. In summary they said Zurich had to treat customers fairly 
and they gave reasons as to why they thought the amount of refund was unfair. The reasons 
included: the policy was only in place for a few weeks; the method for calculating the refund 
was excessively harsh to them as their premium was high and theyd not had cover for 
long; if Zurich was retaining the majority of the premium for its policy administration fee that 
was an unfairly high amount. 
Mr and Mrs H said they had expected a refund of about £2,500 as a pro rata refund for the 
time they had been covered by the policy. They want Zurich to refund a further £1,040.
Our investigator said Zurichs refund was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that treating 
customers fairly needed to go beyond saying that Zurichs refund was in line with the policy 
terms. They referred to the Competition and Markets Authoritys (CMA) 2019 campaign to 
help holiday and travel businesses improve the clarity of their terms and conditions, which 
Mr and Mrs H said supported their complaint. And they said that if the regulatory rules for 
insurers dont require insurers to offer any premium refund at all outside of the 14 days 
cooling off period that was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr and Mrs H have made but I wont address all the points in 
my findings, Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance
Ive considered the information from the CMAs campaign which Mr and Mrs H provided but 
I understand that campaign was aimed at the holiday and travel industry, not the insurance 
industry. Even if the CMAs comments were intended for the insurance industry, the 
insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules and 
guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained in 
the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
The FCA says the overall aim of ICOBS is to ensure that customers are treated fairly.
ICOBS 7.1.1 The right to cancel says:
A consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any reason, 
within:
(1) 30 days for a contract of insurance which is, or has elements of, a pure protection 
contract or payment protection contract; or
(2) 14 days for any other contract of insurance or distance contract.
ICOBS 7.1.2 says:
A firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, but if it does 
these should be on terms at least as favourable to the consumer as those in this 
chapter, unless the differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2 says what the effects of cancelling are when a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel within the 14 days cooling off period, but they dont apply to Mr and Mrs H as they 
didnt cancel their policy within the 14 days cooling off period.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt cancel their policy within 14 days under the relevant rules Zurich 
didnt have to give any premium refund. Mr and Mrs H say those rules are unfair but its not 
our statutory role to decide whether the FCAs rules are fair or not.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy with Zurich state their 
cancellation rights under the insurance contract. These say:
Cancelling this policy

Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period or 
where a change to your existing policy means we are unable to continue with your 
cover, then the following terms apply
.
Annual multi-trip policies  provided you have not made a claim (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand all 
benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, 
for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation.
The cancellation rights under Mr and Mrs Hs contract of insurance with Zurich are more 
favourable than required by the regulators rules. Zurich gave Mr and Mrs H a refund in line 
with the above policy terms and conditions, which Mr and Mrs H dont dispute.Mr and Mrs Hs point is that although Zurich refunded them in line with the policy terms that 
doesnt mean the outcome is fair for them.
Im satisfied that the refund of premium Zurich gave was treating Mr and Mrs H fairly and 
reasonably. Thats not just because the refund was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Its because under the regulators rules Zurich didnt have to give them any 
refund as they cancelled the policy outside the 14 days cooling off period. So the refund 
Zurich gave Mr and Mrs H was more than the no refund it could have reasonably given them 
under the regulators requirements. 
Zurich doesnt need to refund any more of the premium to Mr and Mrs H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman