DRN-4417376
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she has incurred a loss of as a result of two failed international 
payments that she tried to send from her account with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) to her 
bank account in the USA. So, she would like HSBC to pay back what she has lost. 
What happened
Mrs B tried to make two transfers via mobile banking, on 13 March 2023 and 16 March 2023, 
of £50,000 each. She wanted to send the money from her HSBC UK account to her bank in 
the USA  which I will call M. This money was to be received in Dollars. M rejected the 
payments because the beneficiarys name was not included in the transfer instructions. 
When the transfer amounts were returned, she received £3,897.61 less due to foreign 
exchange movements.
Mrs B says she had made two successful transactions from HSBC to her account with bank 
M via online banking just before this. She then used her mobile banking app to make a 
further two transfers. When making these payments Mrs B says she selected bank M from a 
list of previously used payees saved in her app. She believed these details would be correct 
as she had just before successfully transferred money to bank M using her online banking. 
Mrs B also says she spoke to HSBC on the phone about the progress of her payments  and 
HSBC didnt tell her that there was anything wrong with the transfer instructions.
HSBC says they carried out Mrs Bs transfer request as instructed. HSBC said that they 
operated in line with the account terms and conditions, and they have not done anything 
wrong. So, HSBC say they will not be refunding the foreign exchange losses.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint broadly on the same reasons as 
the investigator.
Ive seen evidence that the two transfers Mrs B made via her mobile banking were rejected 
by her recipient bank in the USA  and not by HSBC or any intermediary bank that HSBC 
uses to send money internationally. The evidence shows that HSBC successfully sent the 
money to its holding bank and then it was sent to another intermediary before it was rejected 
by bank M. So, I am satisfied that HSBC transferred the money as instructed. 
The two transfers made prior to this were accepted. Mrs B has told us that she made these 
using online banking  so on a computer or laptop. Bank M accepted these two transfers. 
This means its likely Mrs B included the beneficiary details in the instructions for transfer she 
gave online, but she didnt include this information when completing the transfers on her 
mobile phone. Mrs B says she used the saved payee details from the mobile app, and so 
she assumed the details would be correct and complete. While I can understand Mrs Bs 
frustration that the saved details were not complete, I cant say HSBC has done anything 
wrong, or different, with the first two payments that meant it was successful. For each 
payment HSBC has followed Mrs Bs instructions.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs account which state: 
if the payment is returned to us or we cant make it for any reason, well reverse it using the 
exchange rate at that time. The exchange rate might have changed. So, the amount we pay 
back may be more or less than we originally took from your account.  
Mrs B incurred a loss as a result of bank M rejecting the transfers and the change in the 
exchange rate. But HSBC has acted in line with the terms and conditions, and I cant say 
they have done anything wrong by returning less money as a result of the foreign exchange 
movements.
Mrs B has questioned the rate HSBC used to convert the returned US Dollars to Sterling, 
leading to her loss. Mrs B says the rate is different to that days published rate.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to use the published rate, this is generally the mid-rate and not the 
rate banks use to buy or sell currency. Instead, there is a margin applied to the payment 
Mrs B made, so she received less Dollars than the mid-rate when her £50,000 was 
converted, then lost out again when that Dollar amount was converted back to Sterling for 
credit to her account.
And since Mrs B made two payments, this loss to and from Dollars was doubled. Looking at 
the rates HSBC used, they dont look too far from the days rate, so I dont think HSBC used 
the incorrect rates.
Mrs B is unhappy that she was not alerted to the fact that the beneficiary details were 
missing. While I appreciate it wouldve been helpful for this to be flagged at the time; 
ultimately, she is responsible for making sure she has provided the correct information for 
the transfer. Ive also considered what she has said about HSBC failing to check the 
payment details when she called them. HSBC have provided evidence to show that they 
were first made aware of the rejected payments on 15 March 2023 via the SWIFT system  
the messaging service used for international payments. But HSBC have explained that this 
system is not accessible to all staff members, and the payments were not returned to her 
account until 20 March 2023 and 21 March 2023. So, I think customer service representative 
gave her the most up-to-date information available to them when she called. 
I recognise that Mrs B is out of pocket as a result of the failed transfers but based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think this is HSBCs fault. And I think the terms and conditions 
about making an international payment made it clear that returned payments could be 
affected by foreign change movements. I know that Mrs B will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I am not upholding this complaint and I do not think HSBC need to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman