DRN-2837141
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam. She is also unhappy that as a result of the money not being recovered her 
account went overdrawn and was subsequently defaulted. 
What happened
In June 2018 Miss B was the unfortunate victim of a scam. Miss B says she was contacted 
through an online tutor platform she was on, by an individual whose child she would be 
tutoring. Miss B says the child would be travelling down for the tutoring and that the 
individuals driver would be accompanying him. 
Miss B was sent a cheque for £2,500 which she was told included her tuition fees, £1,400 
which was to be sent onto the individuals driver and the remaining funds were for looking 
after the child. But unbeknown to Miss B at the time she was in fact in contact with a 
scammer. 
On 6 June, Miss B attended a branch and paid in the £2,500 cheque. Later that same day 
Miss B set up a new payee through online banking and sent £1,400 to the details provided 
for the driver.  
Miss B then received a message from Santander to say she was over her overdraft limit of 
£2,000. She called Santander to ask about this. Santander explained it can take up to six 
working days for a cheque to clear. Shed sent the £1,400 payment before the cheque had 
cleared so this had increased her overdraft balance. During this call Miss B asked about 
charges in relation to the overdraft and the agent informed her of what shed need to pay into 
the account to prevent charges. 
On 12 June, the cheque was returned unpaid which left Miss Bs account £2,009.12 
overdrawn. At this point, Miss B realised shed been tricked, and she reported the scam to 
Santander on 13 June. 
Santander contacted the bank shed sent the £1,400 payment to (the receiving bank) to try 
and recover any funds, however, the receiving bank replied to say no funds remained. As a 
result, Miss Bs account remained overdrawn by more than her overdraft limit. Her account 
entered the collection process in January 2019. Santander says this happened due to 
Miss B not managing the account within the terms and conditions of the account she held  
that it must be her main account and be regularly funded with her salary or the overdraft can 
be removed. Santander said it had tried contacting Miss B numerous times to discuss the 
account but didnt receive any contact until September 2019 by which time the account had 
already been defaulted.
In September 2019 Miss B complained shed been unaware the account was closed and 
disputed the balance. Santander said it wasnt liable for the scam payment Miss B had 
made. 
Unhappy with this, Miss B referred the matter to our service. Shes referred to calls from 
Santander but said she explained at the time she was busy with exams and a full-time job 
and, had little time for other things. She says she explained she would call back about the 
issue and that she was never told about timescales for taking action to prevent the account 
being defaulted. Miss B feels it is unfair her credit file has been impacted. 
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. In summary he didnt think the transaction would have looked sufficiently suspicious 
to Santander for it to have been expected to intervene to prevent it. Our investigator also 
didnt think Santander couldve done anymore to recover the money once it was aware of the 
scam. While he noted £100 was paid towards the overdraft in May 2019, he couldnt see any 
further payment towards it or a regular payment into the account like Santander asked in the 
letters it sent. He said Santander sent several letters to Miss B at the registered address but 
that as no payment was made and, as it didnt hear from Miss B in response to the letters, 
he couldnt agree the default should be removed from her credit file.
Miss B doesnt accept the investigators findings. She has raised a number of points 
including: 
That shed received incorrect information multiple times. 
She shouldve been told it takes time for a cheque to clear. 
Miss B recalls Santander told her the money was in her account.
She was told there was money in the recipients account but was then told no funds 
remained. 
Compared with her usual transactions she thought the cheque credit shouldve 
appeared odd.
Having considered Miss Bs additional comments, our investigators opinion remained 
unchanged. He confirmed hed received information that showed the funds had left the 
beneficiary account prior to the scam being reported on 13 June 2018. 
He also acknowledged Miss Bs reasons for not clearing the overdraft balance - which was 
because she was waiting for Santander to rectify the issue before taking further action. But 
when considering the letters Santander sent, the information it provided about the impact on 
Miss Bs credit file if payment was not made and, that it did not hear from Miss B  he didnt 
think Santanders decision to remove the overdraft facility and apply the default was unfair in 
the circumstances. 
As Miss B remains unhappy with the investigators opinion, I have been asked to make a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Miss B that Ive thought carefully about all the points she has raised within 
her complaint but that in setting out my final decision on this complaint I may not specifically 
address each and every point. I will comment on those I think are relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss B, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. I accept that shes been a victim of a 
scam here. But having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, I think it did act 
fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to leave her account. I also cant say 
Santander has made an error in applying the default following no payment in response to its 
letters. Ill explain why.
Should Santander have intervened to prevent the payment Miss B made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Miss B accepts she authorised the payment of £1,400. Santander had an obligation to 
follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had 
a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payment  as Ive explained. I consider 
that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the transactions here were significantly out of character or 
unusual. Ive looked at the account movements in the six months prior to the scam payment 
and while I recognise Miss B hadnt made a payment or credit of this size, I need to keep in 
mind that it is not untypical for consumers to make one-off transactions for this amount.   
Having looked at the account movements in the six months leading up to the scam 
payment, I can see Miss B prior to paying in the cheque for £2,500 was around £440 into 
her overdraft. After making the payment of £1,400 Miss Bs account balance was £2,009.12 
 going just over her overdraft limit of £2,000. While I do note Miss B paid in the cheque of 
£2,500 prior to making the payment later the same day to the third party, Im mindful 
cheques do not clear immediately and so when making the payment the funds would have 
utilised her arranged overdraft. I dont think this in itself ought to have caused Santander 
concern that Miss Bs transaction was potentially connected to a scam. Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per its customers 
instruction and monitor accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. Id like to 
assure Miss B that Ive carefully considered her personal views about the payment made 
(cheque) - specifically her reasons outlined above. But, when taking all the above into 
consideration, Im not persuaded the payment of £1,400 was so unusual or suspicious that 
Santander ought to have intervened in the particular circumstances of this case before the 
payment was processed. And while Miss B has said a cheque wouldve appeared odd 
compared to her usual transactions, Im afraid I dont agree. 
Here Miss B went into a branch and paid in a cheque which was made out to her (she was 
the recipient of the cheque). And Ive not been provided with any information or reasons for 
Santander to refuse it on face value.  
I am aware Miss Bs commented the bank should have made it clearer about the cheque 
clearing timescales and that the cheque wasnt cleared straightaway. Ive thought about this 
point carefully, but in any event, I think it is well known that cheques arent cleared 
straightaway and that is can take at least until the next working day - if not longer for 
cheques to clear in an account. While I cant say exactly what Miss B was told about the 
cheque at the time, on balance, I think it is unlikely the agent would have said the funds 
would have been immediately available.
Further when Miss B paid in the cheque, I dont think there was an obligation for the bank to 
do more than it did.   
Ive gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once Miss B 
reported that shed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Santander to refund the money to Miss B, Id need to be satisfied Santander should have 
acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need 
to decide whether it made any difference. 
In this case, Ive seen information which shows unfortunately the funds had already left the 
receiving account prior to the scam being reported on 13 June 2018. So, in any event, I dont 
think any more could have been done in this particular case to recover the funds. 
I am sorry that Miss B has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for her to have lost. 
I also understand this whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for her and she 
was the innocent victim here. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
Santander should refund Miss B the funds lost as I dont think it could reasonably have been 
expected to prevent this scam. 
Overdraft facility and default 
I will now turn to the removal of the overdraft and the default Santander applied on 8 August 
2019. 
The events have been outlined above under the background of this complaint, so I will not 
repeat them again here in detail. Ive seen Santander sent numerous letters to Miss B. 
These included letters relating to her needing to make payment towards the overdraft and to 
her needing to make sure regular payments are made into the account to ensure the 
overdraft facility isnt removed in future. Santander also wrote to say regular payments into 
the account werent being made. 
I note a payment of £100 was made in May 2019 but following this no further payments were 
received. From what Ive seen and been told, it appears Miss B could have afforded to pay 
more but that at the time she didnt want to pay the overdraft off until the issue was resolved in relation to the scam payment. Miss Bs said she felt Santander hadnt done much to try 
and get her money back.  
While, I do recognise Miss Bs personal views on this point, Santander had told Miss B it 
wasnt liable for the scam payment shed made. And in any event, Im mindful that an 
overdraft is a borrowing facility that a bank can contractually withdraw at any time.
Further letters were sent by Santander to Miss B following the £100 payment in May 2019 
and prior to its letter of 3 July 2019. In this letter, Santander informed Miss B it was sending 
her a default notice due to her not having cleared the outstanding amount on the account. 
This letter also said that as well as the default notice, she would also receive another letter 
confirming that if she didnt repay the amount that it would inform the Credit Reference 
Agencies that shes defaulted on the account and that the default would remain on her credit 
file for six years. 
On 4 July 2019, another letter was sent which said the overdue amount needed to be paid 
within 14 days. This letter explained that if the overdue amount was paid before the date 
shown, no further enforcement action would be taken in respect of the breach. It said that if 
Miss B failed to make the payment, Santander would demand she repay the total balance 
immediately and that it may also take legal action against her or refer the account to debt 
recovery agents. 
Santander say no further contact was received from Miss B until September 2019 by which 
time the account had been defaulted. 
Given the letters sent to Miss B by Santander, Im persuaded it treated her fairly and 
reasonably in relation to her debt and the payments needed. I say this because, Miss B was 
sent numerous letters asking her to make payment. From the letters sent, she was told what 
she was required to do to prevent her overdraft limit being removed and to prevent the 
account from being defaulted. I note some letters also said that if Miss B couldnt pay to 
please get in touch and provided her with organisations she might find helpful, such as debt 
charities. But given what Miss B has told us about her not wanting to pay the overdraft off 
until the issue was resolved in relation to the scam payment, Im not persuaded no payment 
was made due to her being unable to make payments. And while I understand from what 
Miss Bs said she didnt consider the matter with the scam resolved, there was nothing 
further the bank could have done, and it made her aware of this. 
Overall, Im persuaded Santander acted fairly and reasonably in setting out what Miss B 
needed to do in respect of the overdraft. It follows that I cant say Santander has made an 
error in removing the overdraft limit or in applying the default following no payment in 
response to its letters. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman