DRN-1624109
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has reported incorrect information about his credit 
card to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card with HSBC. The account fell into arrears and a default was issued. 
Mr P says that until mid-2019 the date of that default on his credit report was shown as 
August 2013. So, he was expecting the default to be removed from his credit report in 
August 2019  six years after it was registered. 
Based on this understanding he applied to HSBC for additional lending in October 2019. 
This application was unsuccessful. To understand why Mr P got another copy of his credit 
report. This showed that the date of default for the credit card he previously had with HSBC 
was now listed as December 2013, meaning it would not be removed from his report until 
December 2019. Mr P also got confirmation from a credit reference agency that HSBC had 
updated this information.
Mr P complained to HSBC. It said that the amended information  that the account defaulted 
in December 2013  was correct. So, it thought it had acted appropriately by updating this. It 
accepted though that the information reported previously was incorrect. So, it paid £300 to 
Mr Ps current account for the distress this had caused.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr P asked our service to look into the complaint. An 
investigator considered the complaint. They thought that the evidence suggested December 
2013 was the correct date of default. And they felt, based on information provided by HSBC, 
the application Mr P made for further credit that was declined would likely have not 
succeeded even without this adverse information. So, they felt HSBCs offer was a fair way 
to resolve the complaint. 
Mr P disagreed. He said he didnt feel the offer reflected the distress hed been caused, 
particularly as HSBC has reported the wrong default date for nearly six years and only 
amended this shortly before he expected the default to be removed from his credit report. As 
Mr P did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses have a duty to ensure that the information they report to credit reference 
agencies is a correct reflection of account conduct. 
HSBC has provided information to show that the credit card account was passed to its 
recoveries department in December 2013. And it says the account wouldve been defaulted at that stage. Based on the information available, on balance I think the account likely was 
defaulted in December 2013.
Mr P has provided evidence from credit reference agencies that the date of default was 
reported as August 2013 for a long time. So, it seems HSBC was previously reporting 
incorrect information  which it accepts. 
But as Ive said HSBC had a duty to report correct information and it seems that December 
2013 was the correct default date. HSBC informed credit references agencies of this. And I 
think it has acted correctly by updating this information to reflect the true position of Mr Ps 
account.
Defaults are generally removed from credit reports six years after they are registered. I know 
Mr P wouldve preferred the default to be removed from his credit report in August 2019  in 
line with the previously incorrect information. But that isnt what wouldve happened if the 
original error hadnt occurred. If the correct date had been reported by HSBC from the 
outset, the default wouldve still remained on Mr Ps credit file until December 2019  six 
years after it was registered. So, I dont think its previous error meant it shouldve asked for 
the default to be removed from Mr Ps credit file in August 2019  before six years had 
passed since registration.
Taking everything into account I think HSBC was right to update the default date with credit 
reference agencies. And in turn, as this updated information was correct, I dont think HSBC 
has done anything wrong by taking it into account when assessing Mr Ps lending application 
in October 2019.
As Ive said, HSBC has acknowledged it did previously report incorrect information. And I 
agree with Mr P it would obviously have been better had this reporting error been discovered 
a lot earlier than it was. But while I dont doubt that it was upsetting for Mr P to learn that the 
date of default had been reported incorrectly, I think the £300 HSBC previously paid Mr P is 
a fair way to address the upset caused by its error. So, it follows that I dont require it to do 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman