DRN-3131655
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclays failed to action a request to 
change the date his credit card payment was due. He says this led to adverse information 
being placed on his credit file meaning he was unable to obtain a mortgage at a competitive 
rate.
What happened
Mr P has a credit card with Barclays. He says he called a number of times in 2020 to change 
the date the payment for this card was required by. He says that this wasnt carried out as 
per his request and it was because of this that late payments were showing on his credit file. 
So he complained to Barclays. 
Barclays responded to his complaint saying it could find no evidence that Mr P had 
requested the date be changed until August 2020 when it was amended. But it accepted his 
testimony and offered him £100 compensation. It explained that the payments received by 
Mr P were for less than the minimum amount, so it had recorded these as missed payments.  
Mr P wasnt happy with this. He said this had adversely affected his credit history and he 
wanted Barclays to remove the missed payment markers. So, he referred the complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He found that on a number of occasions, 
Mr P had made either no payment or a payment for less than the required amount. So he 
thought Barclays had correctly recorded this information on Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said his requests to amend the due date werent completed, so 
whether hed made the payment or not was irrelevant. The complaint has now been passed 
to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided with a recording of a phone call that Mr P had with Barclays in August 
2020. During this he explains that hes tried before to amend the payment due date to 28th of 
each month. Barclays is also willing to accept that hed previously tried to amend the due 
date based on Mr Ps testimony. Based on this, it seems more likely than not that Barclays 
shouldve previously amended the due date for Mr Ps monthly payment but didnt. So, I 
need to go on to decide whether this has had an adverse impact on Mr P as hes suggested. 
I can see that, over the last year or so, Mr P has regularly made less than his minimum 
required monthly payment and in some months he has made no payment at all. And this is 
something that Barclays is required to accurately report to credit reference agencies. If the 
payments were being received in full, but later than the original requested date, then I might 
ask Barclays to amend Mr Ps credit file to show them being made on time  as this wouldve 
been as a result of Barclays error. But that isnt the case. Mr P isnt making late payments, 
hes not making enough of a payment. This means the account is in arrears, and as such, 
Barclays is right to record this on his credit file.
I understand this will have an impact on the mortgage Mr P is likely to be able to obtain. But 
the reason for this is because he hasnt maintained the payments to his credit card  not 
because of Barclays failure to amend the date the payment is required. Regardless of the 
date the payment is required, Mr P hasnt been making enough of a payment. And its right 
this is recorded. 
I know Mr P has said that whether he made the payment or not is irrelevant. I dont 
understand why he says this. Whether he makes the payment or not is the key issue. Missed 
payments are recorded on credit files so that other lenders can see how customers have or 
havent maintained their other borrowing commitments. Ive seen nothing to make me think 
that, had the due date been changed earlier on, Mr P wouldve paid more than he did and 
maintained his credit card as expected.
Mr P has confirmed that he isnt seeking compensation here, but he wants his credit file to 
be amended to remove the missed payments which have been recorded by Barclays. For 
the reasons Ive set out above, Im not going to ask Barclays to amend his credit file. But for 
completeness, Ill add that the £100 Barclays has offered in compensation for not changing 
the payment due date sooner seems fair to me. Other than Mr P having to call on more than 
one occasion, I cant see that its had a huge impact on him. So Im not going to ask 
Barclays to pay any more.
I accept the missed payments on his credit file are likely having a big impact on Mr P. But, as 
Ive said, I dont think Barclays was wrong in recording these. So, Im not going to ask it to 
pay any compensation for this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether he wishes to accept the 
£100 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman