DRN-4174152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with what Barclays Bank UK PLC did after they asked to change 
Mr Hs account to a joint one and add Mrs H to it. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr H called Barclays and asked how he could change an account to a 
joint one and add Mrs H to it. Barclays said theyd need to go into branch to do that and 
booked them an appointment for later that day. However, when Mr and Mrs H attended they 
were told the relevant member of staff didnt work that day (a Saturday) and was only 
available on a Monday or Wednesday. So they had to make a new appointment. The 
account change was actioned at that meeting. 
Barclays accepted theyd been given the wrong information over the phone and apologised 
for the difficulties caused. It offered to pay a total of £235. Our investigator thought that was 
fair but Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They thought it only recognised the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H and should be increased. So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H encountered difficulties in actioning a straightforward request. 
And its not in dispute thats because Barclays gave them incorrect information about the 
process for doing so when Mr H contacted it about this. 
Ive thought about the impact of that error and what Barclays needs to do to put things right. I 
recognise it led to Mr and Mrs H having a wasted trip to branch. And I accept it will have 
caused them frustration and annoyance in itself to be given the wrong information by 
Barclays. I also appreciate the impact of that was on both of them. 
But Ive also taken into account that they would always have needed to visit branch to carry 
out their request; the error was in Barclays telling them that could be done on a Saturday. 
And after the initial error by Barclays matters were resolved relatively quickly and the 
account change was actioned on their second visit. 
Given all that I think the total compensation Barclays has proposed of £235 does enough to 
recognise the impact on both Mr and Mrs H of what it got wrong here. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £235 to resolve this complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays should pay 
Mr and Mrs H £235. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman