DRN-3610538
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd accepted an application for a marbles credit card which he 
doesnt remember applying for. Mr P is also unhappy that NewDay Ltd didnt call him before 
making its decision to hold him liable and then didnt send him any information under his 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said NewDay had provided 
sufficient evidence of Mr Ps contact details and payments made from his current account 
that showed it was Mr P who likely took out the credit card. The investigator said NewDay 
didnt have to call Mr P before making its decision and that this service had already reviewed 
the service Mr P received from NewDay in relation to his DSAR in a separate complaint. But 
if he wasnt happy with the e-mail and information he received then he could contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he didnt understand 
why he was found liable for the debt and NewDay hadnt provided the information to show 
that it was him who took out the card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr P says that he cant remember taking out this credit card with NewDay and if it can 
provide evidence he took the card out then he will be happy to pay it. 
NewDay has explained and provided evidence to show why it was satisfied it was Mr P who 
took out the card. Its checked the address and contact details with the other card Mr P took 
out (which Mr P has confirmed is a legitimate account) and said he was making payments 
towards the account from his current account. 
Ive also seen the payments made towards the card from Mr Ps current account from July 
2017 and June 2018. The payments were quite large ranging from £30 to £346. There are 
also call notes of discussions NewDay had with Mr P around the time of the above payments 
where he was explaining he was struggling to make them and hadnt received a replacement 
card. The call notes mention that a £150 payment had just been made to the account and 
this is supported by the date and payment made from Mr Ps current account that month. So, 
I dont think NewDay unfairly decided that Mr P was liable for the credit card and the 
outstanding debt here. 
Mr P is also unhappy he wasnt called before a decision was made and that information 
about this account wasnt sent under a DSAR he made. As the investigator explained, this 
service dealt with a separate complaint about the service Mr P received when he made a 
DSAR to NewDay so I cant consider that here. If Mr P is unhappy with the information he 
was sent then he should contact the ICO. And I dont think NewDay had to call Mr P to make 
him aware of its decision once it was satisfied with the investigation it had completed. I can 
see it sent this in writing to the correct address, so I dont think NewDay treated Mr P unfairly 
here. 
As a result, I dont think New Day has unreasonably held Mr P liable for the credit card. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman