DRN-3339209
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt reimbursed her all the 
funds she says she sent as the result of a scam.
What happened
Miss A connected with person L on an online dating site. A short while after they started 
speaking, L asked Miss A for some money. He said it was for a business venture and shed 
be paid back within three months. Miss A was persuaded by L to cover the funds he needed, 
and she sent him £7,500.
L explained to Miss A that she should have some collateral in the exchange so provided her 
with a car. Miss A says she didnt want the car, but simply her money returned in time, but it 
was agreed with the parties shed have the car short term. It was delivered to her home 
without all the paperwork shed have expected and remained in Ls name. When Miss A sent 
L the £7,500 this was with a payment reference that matched the car registration and model. 
Miss A then borrowed money for L and sent him a further £5,000 just over a week later. She 
had to take out a loan for this sum. She says L explained his business had faced some 
difficulties and he needed these funds if Miss A was to get her initial loan paid back. Three 
months later L hadnt returned any funds and stopped talking to Miss A; and his number was 
disconnected.
Miss A raised a complaint with Halifax and said she was due the funds reimbursed under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) as she had been the victim of APP fraud.
She said this was a romance scam and under the code she should receive the funds back, 
as Halifax didnt do enough to protect her. Halifax initially agreed that they were both part 
responsible, so refunded her 50% of the amount (£6,250 in total). Miss A raised a complaint 
about this and on review Halifax said it wasnt liable at all, as this was a civil matter, which 
means its excluded from cover under the code. But it said it wasnt looking to recover the 
50% previously awarded.
Miss A brought her complaint to our service as she wanted the whole amount returned to 
her. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She said it was a complex matter, as Miss 
A had received a car in exchange for the money she sent, making this an unusual situation. 
She said Miss A hadnt fully lost out and this wasnt typical of a scam. She concluded that 
overall it was closer to a civil matter, so wasnt covered by the CRM code (under DS2(2) 
which sets out civil matters, such as consumer not being happy with the goods, arent 
covered by the code). Miss A asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She provided 
evidence the car wasnt worth what L had told her and likely couldnt now be sold due to 
issues with it.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2022. I didnt uphold it and my findings 
were as follows:
I appreciate Miss As argument that this was definitely a scam and she didnt receive 
anything for the £5,000 transfer, even if were saying she received the car for the first 
payment she sent. And Ive also looked at the evidence shes provided on the 
condition and actual value of the car  which suggests its not worth what she was 
told and is potentially unsellable.
As our investigator has set out to Miss A, our role is to review the actions of Halifax in 
this complaint as a whole. So Ive looked at both payments she made and factored in 
the 50% refund shes received, even though Halifax has since changed its stance on 
this payment.
I accept that Miss A didnt receive any collateral in exchange for the £5,000 payment 
she sent. And I also accept that the car she received isnt worth the amount she was 
told by L. But that doesnt mean that Im concluding we should uphold her complaint.
Miss A has received £6,250 from Halifax so far. And Miss A is aware the code 
requires Halifax to have set out an effective warning in relation to scams. But it also 
requires Miss A to have taken a degree of care, and for her to have had a reasonable 
basis for belief that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. And I cant 
safely say Miss A established this.
Miss A had known L a very short time when she agreed to send him the first 
payment, less than a week. And eight days later she sent him the second payment. 
So within two weeks of knowing L shed sent him £12,500. Miss A received the car 
from L when she sent the first payment and this car is now in her name, following 
advice she received when she says she realised shed been the victim of a scam.
I appreciate Miss A says L told her the car was collateral and worth over £10,000, 
which its now clear it isnt. But she did put the car details as the reference for the first 
payment. So her statements suggest she was buying the car rather than receiving 
this as short-term collateral until L repaid her. And Miss A has also told us this was a 
romance scam, as she met L on a dating website. However, the messages between 
her and L from late June and early July suggest this was an investment for Miss A, 
so a business relationship. In the messages she refers to L as a business man and 
as someone she gave an investment to.
Miss A didnt receive the paperwork youd expect to with the car. And she also didnt 
do any checks in relation to it at the time. I accept the situation she was in, but shes 
since been able to evidence to us the problems with the car and some serious 
discrepancies with its history.
As Miss A had the vehicle registration before sending the money, considering she 
used it as the payment reference, I think she shouldve done some enquiries. She 
had only known L a week when he wanted to put what he told her was a new car, 
worth several thousand more than he was borrowing from her onto her driveway. 
Had Miss A searched the registration shed have seen no MOT history for the car 
and it being classed as an insurance write off. And while she took the car as 
collateral, she was aware she didnt have the right paperwork, so would struggle to 
sell it considering it wasnt registered as her property. I consider all these things 
shouldve indicated there were some concerns with L. But Miss A sent L the £7,500 
and then a further £5,000 after she was in receipt of this information and the car 
itself.
Ive been able to review messages between Miss A and L from the end of May until 
July 2021, so not from the start of their interactions. But this hasnt suggested to me 
L did much to prove to or show Miss A he was a legitimate businessman. His 
messages are vague and dont give any clear indication of what hes done with her 
funds or when they will be returned to her. But I can see he offers her another car as further collateral and says about selling the car she has to cover the loan short term, 
but then this doesnt go ahead.
From the information we hold, Im not clear on the full nature of Miss As relationship 
with L. While shes told us this was a romance scam, the messages Ive seen arent 
typical of this sort of scam in that theyre fairly impersonal and none of the messages 
Ive seen indicate a romantic or emotional relationship. From the messages it instead 
seems Miss A entered into a business relationship with L  she discusses an 
investment shes made, an expected return on the investment and says shell start 
charging him interest when he hasnt repaid her.
On review of the information it held at the time, I can understand why Halifax 
considered Miss A made the first payment to L for the car. Her statements say shes 
buying the car and we know she did receive the goods, but is just now unhappy with 
them. So this situation wouldnt be covered by the code.
However, with the information we now hold, I accept its most likely that the goods 
werent really a part of the transaction or the reason Miss A sent the money. It does 
seem she was investing with L and took the car in the interim  seemingly this was 
Ls way of gaining her trust. So I accept that the code does apply to both payments. 
However, Halifax also considered this was the case originally, and thats why it 
refunded Miss A 50%. And I think that was the right outcome.
Miss A had no prior relationship with L and had information about the car before she 
sent the money. And she wasnt honest about what she was making the payments 
for, she says L coached her in this. Considering all that, I cant say she had a 
reasonable basis for belief for sending the funds. There was enough information 
available to her that the car wasnt as described. And Ive seen nothing to show L 
evidenced he was involved in legitimate investments. The searches Miss A has told 
us she did are very superficial and dont suggest she fully looked into the nature of 
Ls businesses. And the fact L has a bank account doesnt change my decision, this 
doesnt prove that he is a legitimate businessman or someone Miss A can trust with a 
large sum of money after only knowing him virtually for two weeks.
So on that basis, even accepting Miss As testimony and that she did receive the car 
as temporary collateral, and she didnt pay any of the £7,500 for it, I think shes 
received a fair refund under the code. Shes received half of this money back and I 
can see the car is now taxed and has had an MOT, which it passed, so it does hold 
some value.
In relation to the second payment, Halifaxs records suggest this was also made for 
the same car, but as a top-up payment, as it was worth more than the £7,500 Miss A 
paid. So this is why Halifax went on to reject her whole case. However as set out 
above, I think the code does apply, as both payments were actually made for an 
investment. But by the time Miss A made the second payment she was in receipt of 
the car and hadnt received the paperwork for it, so she had access to information 
which shouldve indicated L wasnt legitimate. So I also cant conclude Halifax does 
need to do any more in relation to the second payment, as its refunded 50% already 
and I dont consider Miss A is due more than this back, as she was also responsible 
for her loss.
I currently see no reason to uphold Miss As complaint or for Halifax to award her any 
more money. I dont consider she had a reasonable basis for belief when she sent L 
the money, so she doesnt benefit from a full refund under the code.Halifax didnt respond to the provisional decision. Miss A responded and didnt accept it. She 
was pleased our service had now acknowledged this was a scam and said she understood 
why I had felt she had made mistakes in not assessing the car. However she said that my 
decision didnt take into account her vulnerabilities; and that her mental health meant she 
wasnt well enough to be making big financial decisions. The case has now been returned to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further information Miss A has provided about her personal situation. I 
understand she was going through a difficult time financially and with her mental health 
when she connected with L. Shes accepted in her response that this wasnt truly a romance 
scam, as she previously told us  in that while she connected with L on a dating site, they 
decided to become business partners only. Shes said they did this as she thought that if 
they had a relationship it would wreck their business partnership. So while I understand the 
vulnerable state Miss A has described, shes also indicated that she did have some capacity 
for financial decisions at the time  as she made this seemingly sensible decision to protect 
her financial interests.
There are provisions for vulnerable people within the code, but considering the above, I cant 
say Miss A meets that test. I fully accept that her mental health wouldve had an impact on 
how she interacted with L. But considering the decision she made at the time in relation to 
them pursuing both a business and a romantic relationship, I cant say she was so 
vulnerable that it wouldnt have been reasonable for her to have protected herself. Afterall 
she did take some steps towards this, so I cant say she didnt have this capacity. So while I 
accept she had a level of vulnerability, from what I hold, I cant say it was to the extent that 
she is due a full refund under the code.
Miss A has explained that the 50% reimbursement she did receive doesnt cover what shes 
lost out, as the car is worth less than this and shes paid interest on loans. But I still dont 
agree she is due more than 50% back. I think she had enough information to doubt this was 
a genuine venture and the capacity to do more to verify L. So Im still not awarding her 
anything more than Halifax has already provided. I cant fairly direct Halifax to award her 
more money, when I consider the reimbursement its made is proportionate to its share of 
the responsibility.
I understand Miss A has likely still lost out due to this scam. But that is due to Ls actions and 
her being the victim of a scam  which happened due to both her mistakes in not verifying L, 
as well as Halifax not providing a clear warning. So my decision remains unchanged from 
my provisional decision, as set out in the background to this decision. Im not directing 
Halifax to reimburse her any further funds, as Im satisfied 50% is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman