DRN-2449967
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) incorrectly categorised 
a claim on his pet insurance policy, which has affected his premiums.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W has a pet policy for his two cats. In 2016 he claimed for vets treatment for a dental 
lesion.  RSA settled the claim. Mr W later learned that RSA had recorded the claim as 
being to treat a tumour, rather than a dental lesion. Mr W was concerned that this was 
unfairly affecting his premiums and complained.
RSA told Mr W that how it had categorised the claim hadn't affected his premiums. But it 
said it should have identified that sooner and its error in not doing so had put Mr W to some 
unnecessary trouble. So to address that it offered Mr W £75 compensation. 
Mr W rejected RSAs offer of compensation and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but he didn't think RSA needed to take any further action. Mr W 
didn't agree with our investigator's assessment, so the complaint's been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
It seems that after Mr W first told RSA that it had incorrectly recorded the claim it asked him 
to have his vet confirm that the claim was actually for a dental lesion rather than a tumour. 
And it told him it would then correct its mistake in recording the claim. But it hasn't done so.
RSAs since explained that its computer system won't now let it amend its earlier entry. So 
it's not in a position to correct the record that it paid out on a claim for a tumour. And in those 
circumstances it shouldnt have given Mr W the impression that it would take that action after 
he contacted his vet. But RSAs told us that its system uses codes to record the type of 
condition a claim is made for. And it doesn't have a code specifically for the type of dental 
lesion the cat actually suffered from. But it does have one for neck lesion which it said 
would be closer in description to the actual condition then the tumour which it recorded the 
claim as. So it would have been helpful if it had recorded the claim as a neck lesion rather 
than tumour. But I don't think the manner in which it recorded the claim has had any adverse 
effect on Mr Ws premium.
RSAs shown us evidence that, as it doesn't consider either a neck lesion or a tumour to be 
ongoing conditions, they would both affect RSAs perception of the risk Mr W has of making 
a claim in future in the same way. And as its RSAs perception of risk that determines how 
much it charges for its policies. So the fact it recorded the claim as being for a tumour hasn't 
unfairly caused Mr Ws premiums to rise any more than if it had recorded the claim as a neck 
or dental lesion. So I'm satisfied RSA hasn't unfairly charged Mr W a higher premium than it 
should have done.
That said, as I've said above, I don't think RSA should have told Mr W it would amend how it 
recorded the claim, because it wasn't able to do that. Instead it should have been clear from 
the outset that the manner in which it had recorded the claim wouldn't unfairly cause his 
premiums to rise. But, because it didn't do that, Mr W was put to the trouble of contacting his 
vet and also of pursuing a complaint, when accurate information given at the outset might 
have prevented that. But I'm satisfied the £75 compensation RSA offered to Mr W is 
reasonable to address Mr Ws distress and inconvenience in the circumstances. So I don't 
think RSA needs to take any further action. That said Mr W told us that hed previously 
rejected the offer of compensation because he didn't think it went far enough. But, as I think 
it was a fair resolution to his complaint, if he wishes to accept it then he should let RSA 
know, as I think it would be reasonable for RSA to pay that sum to him now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm satisfied that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc had 
previously offered a fair resolution to Mr Ws complaint. If Mr W wishes to accept RSAs offer 
of £75 compensation now then he should advise it accordingly and I think it would be 
reasonable for it to pay that sum to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman