DRN-3591258
The complaint
Mr and Miss B have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has unfairly 
turned down a complaint about a timeshare agreement bought using a Shawbrook loan.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Miss B bought a trial membership from a timeshare supplier. Under 
the terms of the membership, Mr and Miss B were entitled to take up to five weeks of 
holidays in a three year period, ending in October 2021. The membership cost £4,395 and 
was paid for by Mr and Miss B taking out a loan from Shawbrook.
Mr and Miss B complained that, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they were unable to use the 
timeshare in the way they expected to. So they asked for Shawbrook to refund what they 
paid for the timeshare.
Shawbrook responded to the complaint and treated it as a claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). It explained that the trial membership provided Mr and Miss B with five 
weeks of holiday accommodation, plus a prelude week, in a three year period. The prelude 
week was to be taken first and before the other five weeks of holiday accommodation.
Shawbrook explained that the timeshare supplier had looked at its records and saw that 
Mr and Miss B had tried to book the prelude week for early 2020, but that was eventually 
moved to June 2021. However it wasnt possible to use this holiday due to travel restrictions 
in place at the time. The timeshare supplier didnt agree to refund the amount paid for the 
trial membership, but it did agree to extend the time in which it could be used until the end of 
April 2024. Shawbrook also highlighted that Mr and Miss B were able to stay at locations 
both in the UK and overseas, so it didnt think they were completely stopped from using the 
trial membership due to the Covid pandemic.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mr and Miss B brought a complaint to our service. 
Having done so, Shawbrook looked at everything again, but it didnt change its position on 
the claim.
One of our investigators considered the claim, but didnt think Shawbrook needed to do 
anything further. She considered whether Mr and Miss B had any potential claim against 
Shawbrook under s.75 of the CCA as that was the legal provision that most closely matched 
the concerns Mr and Miss B had raised. She considered whether there had been any 
misrepresentation made by the timeshare supplier before Mr and Miss B agreed to buy 
membership or whether the timeshare supplier hadnt done what it should have under the 
agreement. Our investigator thought there wasnt enough evidence to say either thing had 
happened, so she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Miss B didnt agree with our investigator. They said that theyd paid money for a 
service they hadnt got within the timescales of the contract. They also said they continued to 
pay each month for the timeshare membership, despite not having the benefit of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Miss B contacted Shawbrook and our service, they set out what it was they 
were complaining about. Both Shawbrook and our investigator treated this as a claim made 
under s.75 CCA, as the timeshare supplier hadnt provided what it should have done under 
the agreement. Having considered everything, I agree that this was the right legal provision 
to apply. In short, s.75 CCA means that in some circumstances a creditor, who lends money 
to pay for goods or services from a supplier, can be jointly liable with the supplier for the 
suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract. So, Ive considered what I think that 
means for Mr and Miss B.
Mr and Miss B have also said that they continued to pay each month for the timeshare, even 
though they didnt feel they were getting anything from it. When they took out the 
membership, they took out a loan to pay for it. So Shawbrook paid the timeshare supplier 
and then, in turn, Mr and Miss B paid Shawbrook back what had been borrowed. So whilst, 
understandably, Mr and Miss B may have felt they were paying for something they didnt 
receive, technically they werent paying the timeshare supplier as it had already been paid in 
full by Shawbrook. But Ive considered whether Shawbrook need to refund anything 
Mr and Miss B paid toward the loan.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Our investigator considered whether there was a misrepresentation made by the timeshare 
supplier that it would be easy to book accommodation. Its difficult to know exactly what was 
said at the time Mr and Miss B bought their trial membership, and theyve not set out any 
detailed recollections of what they were told. 
Ive seen a one page document that was signed by Mr and Miss B titled TRIAL 
MEMBERSHIP MEMBERS DECLARATION. One part of that document reads:
We understand that we will only be entitled to occupation of weeks in Apartments 
and at Resorts available to our Trial Membership, accommodation varies from resort 
to resort, the allocation is subject to availability and demand.
So I think Mr and Miss B were told that accommodation was subject to availability. 
Its difficult to know what was meant if Mr and Miss B were told booking was easy  that 
could relate to the way bookings were arranged or to do with the availability of 
accommodation. But, Mr and Miss B havent set out in detail what difficulties they had in 
booking accommodation save for the problems they had travelling during the Covid 
pandemic. 
Shawbrook set out Mr and Miss Bs booking history in its response and they havent said any 
of that information was incorrect. I can see Mr and Miss B booked their prelude week and 
were then able to move the date of the booking later on, which suggests they were able to 
find a date to suit them. So, on balance, I cant say there is enough evidence for me to say 
there was a misrepresentation by the timeshare supplier that it was easy to book holidays.
Was there a breach of contract?
Under s.75 CCA, Shawbrook could be responsible for paying compensation if the timeshare 
supplier breached its agreement with Mr and Miss B. So Ive considered whether Mr and Miss B were denied something they were entitled to under the agreement.
The agreement between Mr and Miss B and the timeshare supplier was for it to make 
available five weeks of holiday accommodation in a three year period, as well as the prelude 
week. And while the Covid pandemic made it more difficult for Mr and Miss B to travel from 
early 2020, that didnt affect their ability to use the trial membership in the first 18 months of 
the agreement. Nor did it stop them making bookings from early 2020 onwards, albeit they 
may have found it difficult to travel overseas for a while. Further, the agreement was subject 
to availability, so Mr and Miss B werent entitled to always get accommodation on the dates 
they wanted. But in any event, Ive not seen any evidence that the timeshare supplier didnt 
offer any accommodation to Mr and Miss B when they asked for it, whether in the United 
Kingdom or overseas. So I cant say there was a breach of contract.
But if Im wrong about that, and there was a breach of contract, I would need to consider 
what damages a court might award. Normally damages are to compensate the injured party 
for their loss and not to punish a wrongdoer. For a breach of contract, the starting point is to 
put the claimant in the position they would have been in, so far as is possible, if the contract 
had been properly performed and the breach not occurred. Here, Mr and Miss B contracted 
to have five weeks of holiday between October 2019 and October 2021, plus the 
promotional, prelude holiday. But the timeshare supplier has extended the time in which its 
offering to supply the weeks to April 2024. Im aware that that means Mr and Miss B only 
have around 18 months left to book holidays, but I dont think that changes the position they 
were in when the Covid pandemic started. Im conscious that they didnt book to travel in the 
first 20 months of the trial membership, so they were going to need to take all of their 
holidays in the last 16 months of the membership. It follows that I cant see that they lost out 
even if there had been a breach of contract as theyve still got the chance to use their 
membership in broadly the same way.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Miss Bs complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman