DRN-3469003
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) rejected his claim 
under Sections 75 and 140A Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S140A) in respect of a mis-sold 
holiday product. 
What happened
In June 2009 Mr and Mrs T purchased a holiday product from a company I will call M. It was 
funded by a loan of £11,998 from BPF taken out by Mr T. For simplicity I will refer to Mr T as 
being the sole purchaser of the product. The loan was repaid in April 2016.
In 2016 Mr T brought a complaint to this service under S 75 CCA that he had been told the 
loan would be repaid with the transfer of the product to another company. This was rejected 
as being made out of time.  As such this aspect of his more recent complaint cannot be 
considered a second time.
In March 2018 the PR made a claim to BPF under S 75 CCA and S 140A CCA. It claimed 
that the product had been mis-sold, the merchant had breached the Timeshare Regulations, 
it and BPF had failed to comply with financial regulations and BPF had paid commission. 
It set out the alleged failings of the sales process in some detail which I wont repeat here as 
they are well known to both parties. BPF rejected the claim in a detailed response issued in 
May 2018 and a complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said the claim under S 75 had been brought out of time, but he concluded he could 
consider the claim under S 140A. However, he reviewed the various arguments raised by 
the PR and said he didnt consider there had been an unfair relationship as required by S 
140A.
The PR didnt agree and said BPF had failed to carry out proper affordability checks, undue 
pressure had been applied by the merchant and it had acted as an unauthorised broker. The 
PR said the sale had been fraudulent since the merchant had no intention of supplying what 
had been agreed and this extended the time limit. It also raised the issues which had been 
dealt with when the previous complaint had been made in 2016. Our investigator asked for 
further information, but despite a number of reminders nothing has been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under S 75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr T is making to BPF. I 
will consider each in turn.
The claim under S 75 CCA
Mr T says that the merchant misrepresented the product and applied undue pressure to him 
when he bought it. However, under both S 2 and 9 LA, Mr T had to make that claim within 
six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in 
June 2009  because that is when he says he lost out having relied on false statements of 
fact.
As Mr T made a claim in March 2018, that fell outside of the time limit set out in the LA. I 
would add that the complaint made in 2016 was decided by this service in 2016 and is not 
something I can reconsider.
The claim under S140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under S 140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under S 75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under S 140A CCA. Under 
S 9 LA, Mr T had to make his claim within six years of when the loan ended - which was in 
April 2016. I am satisfied that it was made within time.
Unfair Relationship
Under S 140A and S 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments. In considering whether there is an unfair relationship, a court can 
consider any linked agreement. That can include a contract financed by a loan.
The section provides:
(1) The court may make an order under S 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement.
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement.
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).Only a court can make an order under this section, but I can take into account whether it 
would be likely that the court would make such an order.
Mr T argues that the sale of the product was pressured and was misleading. I have to 
reiterate I cannot consider the misrepresentation claims made in the previous complaint.
A misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract to 
the other that:
isnt true; and
induces the person to whom its made into the contract.
Having not been present at the sale, it isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what 
Mr T was or wasnt told by the merchant. I have noted his brief note about the experience. 
But in the end, the part his testimony plays here comes down to how much it can be relied 
on. And as he hasnt set out in any detail what was said and by whom, such that Im 
persuaded that there were representations by the merchant that, being likely to be untrue, 
induced him into the contract.
So whilst I understand that the sales presentation attended by Mr T may have been used to 
extol the virtues of the product in question, I cant say that its more likely than not that there 
was a factual and material misrepresentation by the merchant.
The PR has said that Mr T was unaware of the commission paid to the merchant, but in my 
experience the sums paid were relatively low and so were not such that I could conclude this 
led to an unfair relationship.
With reference to the Timeshare Regulations I have seen no evidence to show that these 
were broken by the merchant. In an event, neither does the 1992 Act say that timeshare 
agreements are voidable if the required information is not included in the contract, for 
example, if money was taken before the end of the withdrawal period.
Overall, having considered the representations made by Mr T I believe it is unlikely that a 
court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.
S 32 Claim
S 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically S 32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mr T has raised a number of issues with the product 
(over and above commission) in his claim/complaint and those issues could have been 
discoverable earlier. I consider that that he either had discovered or ought to have been able 
to discover that something had gone wrong within six years.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr T is able to rely on S 32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
the timeshare provider was acting as agent to him. I cannot see that its role was to make an 
impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan.
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the S 75 CCA 
misrepresentation and S140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mr T may have against the merchant or BPF has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims that Mr T might have against the merchant and/or BPF have most likely exceeded the time 
limits set out in the LA and where not they do not have merit. I think it is reasonable to take 
this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in 
declining the claims.
BPFs decision to lend
As our investigator has explained that at the time the loan was taken out (2009) they were 
required to be regulated by the Office of Fair Trading. The FCA took over the regulation of 
these activities on 1 April 2014 so they did not require to be FCA regulated at the point this 
loan was taken out.
Mr T says he wasnt asked for any information about his income and expenditure before BPF 
made its decision to lend to him. I am unable to consider a complaint about BPFs decision 
to lend to Mr T in 2009 as such activities were not within out remit at that time. In any event I 
have not been given any evidence that appropriate checks were not carried out. 
Furthermore, I have noted the details of Mr Ts income, but this does not show that the loan 
was unaffordable.
I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr Ts claims under S 75 and S 140A CCA as they 
were brought too late. Nor do I think there is evidence to suggest the lending was 
irresponsible or unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman