DRN-1742716
 
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) offered a cash settlement 
instead of repairs following a leak in her bathroom.
What happened
Mrs T had buildings and contents insurance with L&G. She made a claim following water 
damage caused by a leak in her bathroom. L&G accepted the claim and offered a cash 
settlement. The reason for offering a cash settlement was that some of the damage was due 
to wear and tear and, therefore, not covered by the policy. Mrs T was unhappy that L&G 
wouldnt complete the repairs and the sum it offered wasnt enough to cover the cost.
Mrs T was also unhappy with other issues around her claim. She thought that L&G shouldve 
offered her alternative accommodation and she was worried about being exposed to 
asbestos. 
The key points of dispute are as follows:
L&G briefly provided accommodation for Mrs T because she didnt have access to 
water immediately after the leak.
L&G said the leak repair wasnt covered under the policy.
Some of the damaged ceilings in her home tested positive for asbestos which L&G 
made safe and then removed all but one.
It said damage to the bathroom floor was consistent with longer term wear and tear, 
so it wasnt covered under the policy.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ts complaint. She could see that L&G planned to remove the 
remaining asbestos ceiling once results came back from tests to the bedroom ceiling. It 
seems that L&G overlooked the affected ceiling after the bedroom ceiling tested negative. 
L&G contacted Mrs T later to remove the asbestos which, at this point, was in her garden. 
Our investigator didnt think L&G had handled this as well as it mightve done, and she 
thought compensation of £100 was warranted.
However, our investigator thought it was reasonable for L&G to offer a cash settlement 
because some of the damage was caused by wear and tear. Although Mrs T said the 
settlement wasnt enough to cover the cost of repairs, our investigator explained that she 
hadnt provided itemised receipts. Without a breakdown of costs, its not reasonable to ask 
L&G to pay any more than it already has. This is because some of the receipts mightve 
included items for repairs not covered under the policy.
To begin with L&G paid for hotel accommodation for Mrs T but it refused to continue with 
this. Our investigator noted that L&G paid for the hotel because Mrs T didnt have any water 
in her home because of the leak. Therefore it wasnt habitable. But once the leak was fixed, 
there was no reason she couldnt return home. However, L&G paid for an extra night as a 
gesture of goodwill. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for L&G to stop paying 
for the accommodation once access to water was restored. 
Mrs T didnt agree, despite further clarification from our investigator.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint, but I wont be asking L&G to do any more than our 
investigator proposed. 
Mrs T made comments about each point covered in the investigators view. She felt that her 
extensive evidence hadnt been referred to. So, firstly, Id like to reassure Mrs T that while I 
wont mention every piece of evidence, or respond separately to every individual point shes 
raised, I have taken it all into consideration. Ill address the key points here.
Leak 
Mrs T says L&G didnt tell her the leak wasnt covered by her policy and she thought it 
shouldve arranged alternative accommodation for her while her home was damaged. Ive 
looked at the terms of the policy and the account notes recorded when L&G spoke with Mrs 
T about the hotel accommodation. It explained that the repair of the leak itself wasnt 
covered but the damage caused by it was. So it would be Mrs Ts responsibility to have a 
plumber repair the pipe. I understand that a plumber turned the water off and arranged to 
come back a few days later to complete the repair. I think its more likely than not that L&G 
told Mrs T that it wasnt responsible for fixing the leak even if it wasnt clear on whether it 
would pay the cost of repair. As the repair needed to be done quickly, regardless of whether 
it was covered under the policy, I dont think immediate clarity wouldve made any difference.   
Alternative accommodation
I can see that hotel accommodation was provided because Mrs T didnt have access to 
water and the house was deemed uninhabitable. L&G didnt extend provision of alternative 
accommodation because, once water was restored, the house was considered habitable. 
L&G covered the cost of the hotel, including an extra night as goodwill because of any 
misunderstanding. While I understand Mrs T mightve preferred to stay elsewhere while her 
home was fully repaired, L&G wasnt completing the repairs and had no control over the time 
it would take. So Im satisfied that L&G provided alternative accommodation for a reasonable 
amount of time. 
Wear and tear
L&G appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to determine the extent of the damage caused by the 
escape of water. Ive looked at the LAs report which details the repairs needed and 
identifies damage caused by wear and tear rather than the leak. For example, the LA 
reported that water damage to the bathroom floor revealed worn floorboards underneath. 
Mrs T says the board was removed because of the leak and I have no reason to doubt that. 
She may have been unaware of the damage because it was hidden by the floor covering. 
But the LA reported that the condition of the floorboard suggested longer term wear and tear 
and I think it was reasonable for L&G to rely on the expert opinion.
I see that Mrs Ts policy doesnt cover damage caused over time. So Im satisfied that L&G 
wouldnt have been responsible for the repairs relating to wear and tear.
Cash settlement
This leads on to L&Gs decision to offer a cash settlement. Mrs Ts policy says L&G can 
complete repairs or offer a cash settlement. Because of the additional damage to her home 
as a result of wear and tear, the LA said it wouldnt be possible to repair the water damage in 
isolation. Its not L&Gs responsibility to fix damage caused by wear and tear, so it offered Mrs T a cash settlement. I think that was a fair thing to do so Mrs T could use contractors of 
her choice and complete the uninsured repairs at the same time. I realise that Mrs T was 
unhappy with L&Gs decision and wanted its contractors to carry out all repairs. But Im 
satisfied that L&G made the cash offer in line with the terms of the policy and I dont think it 
needed to do any more.
Mrs T says the cash settlement wasnt enough to cover the cost of repairs. Ive looked at the 
receipts she has provided, along with screenshots of payments made to her builder. 
Unfortunately, the builder hasnt provided an invoice showing the work completed and Mrs 
Ts receipts include items unrelated to the repairs for water damage. But L&G hasnt 
provided a breakdown of its calculation for the cash settlement either. In the absence of 
clear evidence from L&G showing how it calculated the repair costs, and from Mrs T showing 
builders quotes for the work, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that the settlement isnt enough. 
However, Ive seen that L&G has asked Mrs T to provide two quotes for the work so that it 
can review them. So, I dont think L&G dismissed Mrs Ts concerns out of hand and I think it 
made a fair offer to consider the costs she thinks are reasonable. I wouldnt expect L&G to 
do any more unless it receives further evidence of the costs from Mrs T. 
  
Exposure to asbestos
Finally, Mrs T is unhappy that L&G left an asbestos ceiling in her home despite telling her it 
had removed it all. L&G hasnt disputed this. I can see that there was a misunderstanding 
when L&G confirmed that the test for asbestos in one ceiling came back negative. It was 
waiting for that result before attending to remove another ceiling which was known to contain 
asbestos. Unfortunately, this mix-up meant that L&G didnt remove the asbestos until a 
couple of months later. Mrs T says her health has been affected by the asbestos and she 
has taken time off work as a result. She would like L&G to compensate her and cover her 
lost earnings.
Ive seen the doctors fit notes Mrs T provided as evidence that shes been affected by the 
asbestos. However, its not clear whether the doctor is suggesting a causal link. Ive looked 
at the NHS website which says that for asbestos to be damaging to health, exposure would 
need to be prolonged and any ill effects likely to appear around ten years later. I can 
understand that exposure to asbestos would be worrying for Mrs T, but I dont think L&G is 
responsible for causing a significant risk. However, it is responsible for the mixed messages 
about whether the asbestos was still in the property and for this I think an award of £100 is 
fair. I understand Mrs T wants more but I cant see any evidence which warrants an increase 
in payment.
That said, if Mrs T is worried about her health, she may want to seek a medical opinion. Im 
aware that shes been attending appointments at hospital, although its not clear whether its 
related to asbestos. Either way, I hope that Mrs T feels better. 
In summary, I think it was fair for L&G to offer Mrs T a cash settlement considering the 
repairs needed beyond the insured water damage. Ive looked at the rest of the evidence 
and the points raised but I havent identified anything which leads me to think L&G needs to 
do any more. I understand L&G already sent the settlement cheques to Mrs T. Its her 
decision whether to cash them now, if she hasnt already.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Legal 
& General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs T £100 by way of apology for the mix-up with the asbestos ceiling removal, 
including delays in returning to collect the last piece.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman