DRN-2500522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies taken out in 1993 and 2000. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. HSBC agreed that the complaint 
about the 1993 policy should be upheld, and offered to pay appropriate compensation. But it 
didnt agree that the complaint about the 2000 policy should be upheld. And so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I think both polices were mis-sold, but as HSBC has agreed to settle the 1993 complaint, Ill 
explain here in detail my thinking only about the 2000 sale. 
HSBC recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs C, but I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation. This is because both Mr and Mrs C were named on the policy, but I dont 
think Mrs C was eligible for it. I think its more likely than not she was working fewer than 16 
hours a week  and you had to work for more than 16 hours a week to be covered.
HSBC has pointed out that, in a questionnaire sent to HSBC as part of Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint, it says that Mrs C was working more than 16 hours in 2000. This is indicated by a 
tick in a box setting out various options. However, I think this is likely to have been an error 
when completing the form. I say this because, in their communications with us, Mr and 
Mrs C have been clear and consistent that Mr C was working full time and Mrs C was 
working fewer than 16 hours a week. 
Ive also looked at the record of the interview carried out in 2000, when HSBC recommended 
the PPI policy. Mrs Cs income is recorded there, and this does seem to be consistent with 
someone who is working part time. 
So I think the PPI was unsuitable. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have bought the policy if had made it clear it wasnt fully 
suitable. So, I think have lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
The same applies to the 1993 policy, if HSBC hasnt yet paid redress for it. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
HSBC must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman