DRN-4005701
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided incorrect information 
regarding the reduction of his overdraft limit and made a mistake in the spelling of his name. 
Mr B is also unhappy about the service he received regarding this.  
What happened
Mr B received a letter from Barclays regarding the removal of his overdraft. Following this 
letter Mr B had a number of calls with Barclays where he complains amongst other things he 
was given incorrect information regarding reducing his overdraft limit, his name was logged 
incorrectly and he received poor service when trying to sort out these issues in particular - a 
advisor laughing during a phone call.
Following Barclays investigation Barclays:
Agreed it had made a mistake in recording Mr Bs name and updated its system to 
record Mr Bs name correctly;
Confirmed it didnt find an error in the letter informing Mr B about its decision to 
remove his overdraft but as Mr B has reduced his overdraft in-line with the advice 
given over the phone the overdraft with its new limit would remain;
Barclays also upheld Mr Bs complaint regarding its advisor laughing during a phone 
call and despite not believing there was any wrongful intention provided feedback 
surrounding this; and
Barclays paid Mr B £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by his experience 
with it. 
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays had investigated and dealt with all Mr Bs complaint points to the best of its ability 
and that the compensation Barclays had paid Mr B was fair and reasonable and didnt think 
it should do anything more. 
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr B has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr B back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
And in this complaint Barclays has agreed that it had made a mistake in how it had recorded 
Mr Bs surname and has updated its system accordingly. And following Barclays advice Mr 
B has also managed to reduce his overdraft limit and stop his overdraft from being 
withdrawn. So as these issues have been resolved what I now need to consider is if the 
compensation of £50 awarded to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
service Mr B received is enough.
And I think it was. I accept that Mr B may well have been inconvenienced by having to call 
Barclays to get advice regarding the reduction of his overdraft. But I havent seen anything to 
show me he suffered any financial loss because of this or due to the fact it had his name 
recorded incorrectly.
Furthermore, I also accept that the service provided during one of the phone calls couldve 
been better  and that an advisor did laugh during the call. Having listened to the phone call 
in question, I agree the laughter might have been unprofessional, but I dont think there was 
any malice in it.  And in my view, it came following 29 minutes of a very challenging phone 
call where I found during the call Mr B to be very combative, argumentative and cross 
examined the advisor at every point. 
So on this basis I think the £50 compensation already paid is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience and Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already done for Mr 
B is a fair way to settle his complaint and Im not going to ask it do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman