DRN-3013754
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim she made on a pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs B insures her dog, S, on a pet insurance policy provided by Red Sands. The 
circumstances of her claim and complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill summarise 
what happened briefly.
S suffered a cruciate ligament injury and Mrs B made a claim on the policy for the 
treatment of this.
Red Sands declined cover for the claim, referring to a condition of the policy which 
excluded all cover for cruciate ligaments.
Mrs B complained to Red Sands. She said that the policy wording she had access to 
only excluded cover for cruciate ligaments in the first 14 days of cover.
When it rejected her complaint, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought that Red Sands hadnt acted fairly and it should pay the claim.
Red Sands didnt accept this as it said it had sent multiple copies of the correct policy 
wording to Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont dispute that Red Sands current policy terms and conditions (Ill refer to these as 
Version B) exclude all cover for cruciate ligaments. Red Sands has also provided evidence 
that these terms and conditions have been sent to Mrs B by email in 2019 and 2020.
But the issue here is that Mrs B has provided evidence from her online portal account linked 
to the policy which suggests that the terms and conditions (Ill refer to this as Version A) 
available through this portal at the time of making the claim was a slightly different, earlier 
version. Version A only excluded claims made for cruciate ligament issues which occurred 
within the first 14 days of the policy. Theres no dispute that the injury occurred after this. 
Red Sands has been asked for an explanation as to why the Version A terms and conditions 
are showing as the applicable terms and conditions on the portal, rather than Version B 
which it sent her previously. It hasnt provided one, but has referred to having sent Version B 
to her by email.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to rely on the Version A terms and conditions. I note that 
before logging into the account, the website linked to it says that the account enables 
policyholders to view all your policies and pet details online. So Im satisfied Mrs S could 
reasonably assume that the terms and conditions on the online account were current and 
accurate, and were what any claim she made would be considered under. The exclusion 
relied on by Red Sands doesnt exist in the same form in Version A. The exclusion as 
outlined in Version A doesnt apply to Mrs Bs claim. So I dont think it was fair for Red Sands 
to rely on the exclusion (which would apply) set out in Version B  that wasnt the version of 
the policy Mrs B had access to on the portal.  
So I dont think Red Sands acted fairly when it declined cover for the claim. It relies on an 
exclusion which wasnt in the terms and conditions Mrs B reasonably referred to at the time 
of making the claim. I think that Red Sands should settle the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions contained in Version A including the application of relevant 
excesses and limits. It should also pay 8% simple interest per year on any amounts paid by 
Mrs B from the date(s) of payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must settle the claim in accordance with the remaining 
terms and conditions (including the application of relevant excesses and limits). It should 
also pay 8% simple interest per year on any amounts paid by Mrs B from the date(s) of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman