DRN-2892381
The complaint
Mr R complains BMO Asset Management Limited (BMO) moved investments held in the 
Child Trust Funds he took out for his children into cash without his consent which resulted in 
them losing money.
What happened
Mr R is the registered contact for two Child Trust Funds (CTF) with BMO (formerly F&C 
Management Limited). In June 2010, BMO wrote to Mr R to say that from July 2010 the 
shares he held in an investment trust would no longer be managed by them. The letter gave 
Mr R two options  to sell his holding in the investment trust and reinvest the proceeds within 
the CTF, or to sell his holding and for proceeds to be held as cash within the deposit account 
in the CTF.
BMO explained the second option was the default one and if Mr R wished for this to happen, 
he didnt need to take any further action. They also said that if they dont receive his 
instruction form by 30 September 2010 or the form isnt completed correctly his proceeds will 
be held in cash pending further instructions. 
Shortly after Mr R sent back the completed the forms selecting option A for both CTFs, but 
as the from wasnt completed fully the shares were sold and proceeds moved into the 
deposit account. 
In 2020, Mr R complained to BMO through a representative about the failure to act on his 
instructions and the charges applied to the deposit account which resulted in loss in value. 
BMO explained that although they received the completed forms in July 2010, they werent 
completed correctly as column 1 was left blank. As no alternative instruction was received 
the default position was taken and the shares were sold and have been held as cash since 
2010. They also mentioned they wrote to account holders in February 2013 about the annual 
management charge of £25 + VAT. 
Mr R was unhappy with their response and asked our service to look into matters. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He felt BMO made 
clear the steps Mr R would need to take in order to invest in an alternative investment trust, 
but the returned forms werent completed correctly. He also said BMO had notified Mr R of 
the annual management charge in 2013 so he didnt think they did anything wrong.   
Mr R did not agree with the investigators opinion. He says that BMO chose to close the fund 
the CTFs were invested in so they should replace the lost investment value. As Mr R did not 
agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and essentially for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that BMO wrote to Mr R in June 2010 explaining the steps he would need 
to take regarding the shares held in the investment trust. So, Ive considered whether the 
instructions were clear and whether it detailed the impact of not following it.
Ive seen the instruction form Mr R had to complete in order to switch to an alternative 
investment trust. It provided him with a checklist he could follow to ensure all the sections 
were completed correctly  this included tick the box next to Option A above and choose the 
investment trust(s) for the proceeds to be invested into under Column 1. 
BMO have said Mr R failed to complete column 1 on the forms. And having looked at the 
forms alongside the instructions, I agree the form wasnt completed as advised. 
Although, I havent been provided with the original letter sent to Mr R with the forms, Ive 
seen a copy of what was sent to the account holders. Im satisfied this is representative of 
the information given to Mr R at the time.  This clearly detailed the two options available to 
those that held shares in Pacific Assets. Theres also a specific section under important 
notice which explains what would happen if the instructions werent followed, it says:
If your Instruction Form is not completed correctly or is not received by 30 September 2010 
then the default Option B will apply and any [investment trust] shares in the CTF will be sold 
and the proceeds will be held as cash on the Deposit Account pending instructions from you.
Please note that only one option may be selected on the Instruction Form and this will apply 
to all [investment trust] shares in the CTF. If more than one option is selected the Instruction 
Form will not be accepted and the default Option B will apply.
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied BMOs instructions were clear and not misleading.   
I acknowledge Mr R says he completed the forms to the best of his knowledge, and he 
wasnt informed they were completed incorrectly. But I dont think its unreasonable BMO 
didnt contact him afterwards. They clearly explained that if the forms were not completed 
correctly the shares would be sold and held as cash. And If Mr B was unsure about the form, 
he could have contacted BMO directly which I cant see he did. Therefore, I dont think BMO 
acted unreasonably by following the default option.  
I understand Mr R feels BMO should reimburse the monies lost because it was their choice 
to close the fund, but I dont agree. BMO have confirmed the board of the investment trust 
decided to move the management of the trust to another investment manager. And as BMO 
only provide trusts managed internally for their savings plans, they could no longer offer this 
as an option. In these circumstances, I would expect them to explain the options available to 
their account holders which I think they have. So, I cant say are responsible for the losses 
Mr R claims. 
BMO have provided us with statements issued to Mr R including one from 2013  the 
earliest statement they hold. It detailed the amount held as cash in the deposit account. And 
in the FAQ section under why have I got un-invested cash on my account, it provided 
information on reinvesting cash in the account. So, I think BMO made it clear that the 
proceeds from the sale were held as cash and Mr R could have chosen to reinvest it at any 
point. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr R sought to reinvest the funds. 
Mr R has also complained about the charges applied to the account and how it reduced the 
value of the investments. But I dont think BMO have done anything wrong in introducing a 
charge for its service. Ive seen evidence to show that BMO wrote to account holders in February 2013 outlining the annual charge, and the reason for introducing it. I can see the 
letter also provided the option to make regular contributions, or to pay the charge by direct 
debit to reduce the impact it would have on the investment. Mr R could have also transferred 
to another provider if he was unhappy with the charges. Therefore, Im satisfied BMO have 
done what Id expect in the circumstances and brought the options available to Mr Rs 
attention. 
I recognise that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think BMO need to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman