DRN-1706791
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Share Centre Limited (Share Centre) delayed the execution of a 
sale transaction and that he suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
Mr P held shares in Petrel Resources and wanted to place a sale instruction for 20,000 
shares via Share Centres website.  At the time of the trade he was unable to obtain a live 
price on the website and had to call Share Centre to place the deal.
During the call to Share Centre, Mr P was advised that the price was moving quickly and 
could not be placed automatically as was the normal practice.  On this occasion, Share 
centre had to place the deal manually with the market.  This process involved a dealer 
contacting the market by telephone and obtaining a live price.  As there were several steps 
involved, this took longer than the normal automated process.
Mr P was asked what limit he wanted to sell at and he confirmed a price of 20p.  
Unfortunately, as the price continued to move this limit could not be achieved and Mr P was 
told that the price was now 18p.  Mr P accepted this price and the trade was executed.
After the sale was placed, Mr P complained that his price was lower than that displayed on 
other online platforms and as a result of the delay in obtaining a live price, he had obtained a 
lower price than anticipated.  The Share Centre investigated the complaint but did not agree 
with him and said that the trade had been executed in line with their Best Execution Policy 
and Terms of Business.  
Mr P did not accept their findings and complained to the service.  One of our investigators 
reviewed the case and decided that the business had not done anything wrong. The 
investigator said that the time taken to execute the trade was not unduly delayed and didnt 
uphold the complaint on this basis.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all of the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions 
for much the same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I wont be upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr Ps 
strength of feeling in this complaint.  
There are times when a trade cannot be placed automatically via the website and the trade 
has to be placed directly with the market.  It would appear that in this particular case and having listened to the call from the time, its clear that Mr P understood that the price was 
moving quickly.  
Mr P placed his instruction on an at best basis  this means that the firm will obtain the best 
possible price in the circumstances.  This also means that it may not be the same price that 
was originally quoted.  This is what happened when Mr P placed his sale instruction.  He 
placed an initial limit of 20p but was told that as the price had fallen this was not possible 
and subsequently agreed to a price of 18p.  The shares were sold at this price.
Mr Ps main complaint is that there was an undue delay in his sale being executed during 
which time the price continued to fall.  Having looked at the available documentation and 
listened to the call, I dont think that there was an undue delay.  Share Centre had to perform 
their internal identification and verification process to validate Mr Ps identity and then had to 
contact the market to obtain live prices.  The call lasted in the region of 12 minutes and I 
dont think that this was unduly long in the circumstances as the following actions took place 
during the call:
Instruction given by Mr P to sell at the best price
Share Centre contacted market maker and a live price of 19p was given
Share Centre informed Mr P of the price and Mr P agreed to proceed at this price 
Share Centre spoke to market maker again but the price had now moved to 18p
Share Centre went back to Mr P to give the new price and asked if he wanted to 
proceed
Mr P agreed to proceed with the new price of 18p
Share centre placed the sale with the market maker
Given the rapid changes in the share price, I think that it was right that the business checked 
with Mr P on whether he wanted to accept the prices that were available.  I do sympathise 
with Mr P that during the call the price was falling however I dont think that the business can 
be held responsible for the fall in share price as this was outside of their control.
Mr P said that the price he sold at was lower than figures displayed on other platforms at the 
time.  I havent seen anything that shows higher prices were available at the time and Im 
satisfied that Mr P was given clear information about the price available from the market 
maker.  Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that he chose to proceed with the sale at 
18p.
In summary, I do not think that the business has done anything wrong in how they handled 
Mr Ps sale instructions, they did not cause undue delay and acted in accordance with the 
terms of the service.
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Brian Gray
Ombudsman