DRN-3545109
The complaint
Mr R complains that Quilter Cheviot Limited didnt use a faster payment method to transfer 
funds to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) administrator which have led to 
unnecessary delays and financial losses.
What happened
Quilter were the discretionary investment managers for Mr Rs SIPP. In August 2020 he 
wanted to make a partial transfer of £100,000 from his SIPP to another provider and reinvest 
it in shares.
On 17 August Mr R contacted Quilter and informed them they would be receiving a partial 
transfer request for the sum of £100,000. He asked to use funds from his cash holdings and 
said I would be grateful if this could be done without delay.
Quilter responded the same day and explained that they were only able to accept 
instructions from the SIPP provider and that once the instruction was received they would 
arrange prompt payment.
On 18 August, the SIPP provider sent Quilter the instructions to transfer £100,000. Quilter 
received this just after 2pm. They arranged a BACS transfer the same day. Payment was 
made on 19 August as the instruction had come in just after the cut off time for payments at 
2pm. 
On 19 August Mr R emailed Quilter and asked them whether they could move the funds to 
the SIPP provider as this might help the partial transfer to be effected more quickly. He was 
informed that the instruction had been received and the transfer had been arranged.
Later that day Mr R queried when the funds would be received by the SIPP provider. He had 
expected a faster payment and they didnt have the funds yet. Quilter responded to say that 
payments are made by BACS and the SIPP would receive the funds within three business 
days. Unless a same day transfer was requested (which would cost £20), the BACS method 
was used for clients.
The funds were received by the SIPP on 21 August and transferred to the new provider the 
same day by CHAPS payment. Mr R invested his funds into shares straight away on 21 
August.
Mr R complained. He is unhappy that nobody gave him the different options of how the 
payment could be sent. He says he would have happily paid an additional £20 for a same 
day transfer. Instead, Quilter used the slowest transfer method and he thought it was 
unacceptable his funds were left floating for several days. If a faster payment method was 
used he could have invested his funds two days earlier and as markets were rising at the 
time he lost out on buying at lower share prices.
Mr R says Quilter has not followed FCA principles which include paying due regard to the 
information needs of clients, communicating with them in a fair, clear and not misleading 
way, paying regard to their interests and treating them fairly and taking reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of their advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is 
entitled to rely on their judgement.
Quilter rejected Mr Rs complaint and so did one of our investigators. As Mr R remained 
dissatisfied, his complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr R is disappointed Quilter used a slower transfer method than he 
expected and I can see that he lost out by not being able to invest his funds with the new 
provider a couple of days earlier.
However, I dont think Quilter has acted incorrectly or treated Mr R unfairly here.
The SIPP provider who gave the instructions to Quilter did not specify that a same day 
transfer should be used and I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for them to use a BACS 
transfer as their standard transfer method unless a faster method is specifically requested. 
Its free to clients and only takes a few days. 
I appreciate that Mr R asked Quilter to proceed without delay, however thats what they did 
in my view. They arranged the transfer as soon as they received the instruction on 18 
August and made payment the next day (as the cut-off date for payments had already 
passed on the 18th). So I think they made the BACS payment as soon as possible. And Mr R 
received his funds three days after Quilter had received instruction. I dont think this is an 
unreasonable timeframe. 
This is not to say it couldnt have been quicker. Theres no doubt if CHAPS had been used, 
Mr R could have received his funds earlier. However, whilst Mr R assumed a faster payment 
method would be made, I dont think his message asking to proceed without delay had to be 
interpreted to mean it had to be transferred the same day. And I dont think Quilter at any 
point gave him the impression this would happen. No further information or context was 
provided to Quilter what Mr R was intending to do with his funds or that this was extremely 
time sensitive, for example that he was looking to invest in rising shares immediately. His 
money came from a cash account so had not been invested at that point.
I acknowledge that Quilter could have asked Mr R whether he wanted BACS or CHAPS. 
However, I dont think its unfair or against FCA principles to use a reasonable standard 
process and only change this when a faster method is either specifically requested or 
particular urgency is evident. And neither applies here in my view.
So I dont consider it fair and reasonable to hold Quilter responsible for Mr Rs financial 
losses in the circumstacnes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 Nina Walter
Ombudsman