DRN-2484665
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard told him he was not 
eligible for a loan which he wanted to consolidate his credit card debts.
What happened
Mr W says he asked Barclaycard for a loan so that he could consolidate his credit card 
debts. He says Barclaycard told him it was its policy not to approve a loan unless for an 
emergency worker or for key workers. Mr W says that decision was unfair and believes 
Barclaycard is taking advantage of him by making him pay an increased interest amount. He 
would like Barclaycard to work with him and allow a greater amount of the monthly payment 
to be allocated to capital which a loan would achieve.
Barclaycard says Mr W can apply for a loan and says whilst it has no record of Mr W being 
told that he couldnt have a loan, it doesnt dispute what he says. It says it offered Mr W £25 
compensation and says if he has any financial difficulties then he can speak to it to discuss a 
repayment plan.
Mr W had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt 
fairly with it. The investigator thought Mr W could have applied for loan elsewhere and 
thought he had now taken out a loan and so there was no financial loss.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says he wasnt offered compensation and 
says Barclaycards actions caused considerable hardship by forcing him to ask family and 
friends for a loan. He also says Barclaycards actions affected his credit score and so that 
would have impacted on any loan application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
I dont doubt what Mr W says that he was told he couldnt apply for a loan. And I can see that 
Barclaycard doesnt dispute that either. Im satisfied that Barclaycard has fairly apologised 
and offered Mr W £25 compensation for that mis-information. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable and reflects the fact that I dont think that mistake was significant or ought to 
have had any real financial impact. I appreciate Mr W says he wasnt told about that offer 
and so may not have received Barclaycards response to his complaint. That is not 
something I can fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for as its not responsible for the delivery 
of mail. And I have no reason to doubt that offer will be still be available to Mr W.
I cant see any evidence here that Mr W has suffered any financial loss as a result of what 
he was told, and I have not seen any evidence that Mr W spoke to Barclaycard itself about 
his account or his account options. It is not clear if Mr W was in financial difficulties and I 
would have expected Barclaycard to have acted positively and sympathetically if told about 
any such difficulties. I can see that Barclaycard has said Mr W can apply for a loan and will 
discuss with him a repayment plan if he wishes.
I dont think Mr W has explained why he didnt apply for a loan elsewhere. And whilst I 
appreciate, he says his credit score was affected by what took place, I cant be sure Mr W 
would have been successful in any Barclaycard loan application in any event. I also think 
that as part of the agreed terms and conditions Mr W was obliged to pay the interest.
Overall, I find that Mr W was obliged to repay the interest as part of the credit card terms and 
conditions. I also think Mr W could have applied for a loan with a different provider even if he 
was given incorrect information. And I think he could have discussed any financial difficulties 
with Barclaycards specialist department if he wished. I have looked at Mr Ws complaint 
form to see how he would like Barclaycard to put matters right and can see he would like it to 
work with him to reduce the interest he is paying and to offer him a loan. I make clear its not 
our role to direct a business to offer a customer a loan as such matters have to be assessed 
for affordability. But Im satisfied Barclaycard has told Mr W he can apply for a loan and has 
told him it will a discuss ways of reducing interest by considering a repayment plan. So, I 
think Barclaycard has offered to do what Mr W would like.
I think it clear Mr W doesnt have the final response letter and so I will arrange for it to be re-
sent to him as it contains information about accepting the compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £25 in respect of the 
incorrect information. Mr Ws acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman