DRN-2820867
The complaint
Mr and Miss M complain that Abbey Bond Lovis Limited (ABL) didnt pass on disclosed 
information to the underwriter when it arranged a farm combined insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Miss M run a partnership farm business and are represented by a solicitor, but 
for ease any comments it has made on their behalf Ill refer to as Mr M unless otherwise 
stated. 
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2015, Mr M took out a farm combined insurance policy with effect from 
27 February 2015 and renewed each year.
In August 2018, Mr M had his cattle stolen from his farm. He made a claim on the 
policy.
The underwriter of the policy declined the claim, citing it had discovered previous 
claims in 2013 and 2014 that werent disclosed prior to the inception of the policy in 
February 2015.
Mr M said his previous insurance broker was somewhat surprised when he took out 
insurance elsewhere. As a result, it is said the previous broker called ABL and 
discussed previous claims it is also said he composed a letter detailing Mr Ms 
previous claims for him to send to ABL. Mr M said his wife posted this letter to ABL. 
Mr M is unhappy that ABL didnt pass the previous claim history to the underwriter 
of his insurance policy.
ABL didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint it says that it hasnt been able to find any 
evidence that it has been notified of any previous losses or incidents prior to 
inception date nor at any subsequent date. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M didnt agree and said we hadnt 
considered the previous brokers evidence. Our investigator queried this as we had 
seen a copy of the letter dated 26 February 2015. The representative than 
confirmed there was no further information and asked for the complaint to be looked 
at by an ombudsman on the evidence already provided.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint Im considering is, if ABL failed to pass on disclosed information 
regarding previous claim history to the underwriter at inception of the policy. Im not 
considering any rejection of the claim or actions taken by the underwriter of the policy.
From what Ive seen the inception of the policy was set-up over the phone with 
documentation being sent to Mr M thereafter. ABL havent been able to provide phone 
recordings as the calls were taken on mobile phones and werent recorded. But it has 
provided notes taken by its representatives on the same day to summarise a call.
On 13 February 2015 the note shows ABLs representative spoke to Mr M and discussed the 
level of cover he needed. This includes details of farm buildings, farm livestock, employers 
liability cover and public liability cover. It also notes no claims  with previous insurer. This 
would suggest that Mr M didnt disclose any previous claims. 
On 19 February 2015 I can see the insurer sent Mr M documents, this included the 
quotation, a quotation schedule and a Farm Statement of Fact. This statement is based on 
the details Mr M provided ABL and it clearly gives warnings of the importance of checking 
the information is correct and the repercussions of not disclosing correct information. The 
first question it asks is Have any accidents losses or claims arisen whether insured or not in 
the last 3 years, other than the following? The box below this says None. Mr M was 
expected to check the documentation and inform ABL if there was any incorrect information. 
On 24 February 2015, ABLs representative called Mr M to check if he was happy with the 
level of cover and Mr M authorised him to proceed with cover effective from 27 February 
2015. And from what Mr M has told us it doesnt appear to be disputed that ABL were not 
made aware of any previous claims history up to this point in time.
Mr Ms representative has also told us that since the claim was declined she has spoken to 
the previous insurance broker who advised her that he was somewhat annoyed that his 
client was moving his business to ABL and he took it upon himself to call ABL to seek 
information as to why the quote was such good value and he says he discussed the claims 
history with it.. He says he then drafted a letter dated 26 February 2015 and sent it to Mr M 
setting out the history of claims. Mr M has said the letter was posted by his wife to ABL. Mr 
M says he followed up the letter via discussions with the representative at ABL
Ive reviewed all the correspondence between Mr M and ABL and Ive seen no evidence of 
further discussions with ABL or that it received the letter. Although Ive seen a copy of this 
letter, it only shows me the letter was addressed and sent to Mr M, this doesnt evidence that 
the letter was sent and received by ABL, such as an acknowledgement from ABL. If it had 
been made aware, I wouldve expected to see discussions and correspondence with Mr M 
advising him of the impact of this disclosure. I also note that on 2 March 2015, policy 
information was sent to Mr M with a request for the payment. This makes no mention of the 
disclosure and so Id have expected Mr M to have followed this up. Ive also considered that 
Mr M wouldve also had opportunity each year at renewal to confirm these previous claims, 
but I cant see that he did.
On balance I think it more likely than not that ABL were not aware of the previous claim 
history. Whilst Im not disputing what Mr M has explained, on the evidence I have, I cant 
identify that ABL received the letter from Mr Ms previous insurance broker. And Ive also 
considered Mr M had ample opportunities to confirm and discuss the disclosure of his 
previous claims with ABL, but I cant see that he did. So, Im unable to identify that ABL have 
made an error and I therefore wont be instructing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman