DRN-2749861
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with and settled a claim 
they made under their household insurance for damage to their stereo system.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L hold a household insurance policy, which is underwritten by Ageas. In July 
2020 a tank in their home burst, which caused water to escape. This resulted in damage to 
their contents  this complaint concerns Mrs and Mr Ls claim for the damage that was 
caused to their stereo by the escape of water.
Mrs and Mr L purchased the stereo in question for £250 in 1985. They say that, at the time 
of their purchase, the stereo was a flagship model. It could play both sides of an LP without 
removing it and had two separate speakers, which provided a 100-wat sound output. It also 
featured a cassette deck and AM/FM tuner.
On 23 July 2020 Mrs and Mr L contacted Ageas to claim for the damage to their stereo. 
Ageas appointed an electrical specialist, S, to attend Mrs and Mr Ls property to assist it in 
dealing with their claim. 
After S inspected Mrs and Mr Ls stereo, it stated that the item had been damaged beyond 
economical repair. And, as the stereo was no longer available due it its age, S 
recommended two models as the closest alternative like for like replacements. 
Ageas gave Mrs and Mr L the details of the models S had proposed. But they were 
immediately concerned by the suitability of S recommendations. They thought the proposed 
models were inferior in quality and suggested an alternative model, which they felt more 
closely matched the specification of their damaged stereo. They also complained to Ageas 
about how it was proposing to settle their claim. 
Ageas reviewed the replacements S had recommended and thought either model was a 
reasonable like for like replacement. And it declined to provide Mrs and Mr L with the model 
they had requested. It considered the stereo theyd proposed would put them in a better 
position as it wasnt like-for-like. To resolve Mrs and Mr Ls claim, Ageas credited their 
account with £329, which was the value of one of the like for like models S had 
recommended. It also paid Mrs and Mr L £25 to reimburse them for the cost of a report 
theyd obtained.
As Mrs and Mr L werent happy with how Ageas proposed to settle their claim they 
complained to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they thought Ageas had offered a suitable 
replacement model. And they didnt think it needed to do anything else. Ageas accepted our 
investigators view of Mrs and Mr Ls complaint, but they didnt. So, Ive been asked to 
decide this complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mrs and Mr L or Ageas 
its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether Ageas made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr L 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that there was damage to Mrs and Mr Ls stereo, which Ageas agrees is 
covered by the terms of their contents insurance policy. However, theres a disagreement 
between Mrs and Mr L and Ageas about whether the settlement amount paid for the 
damaged stereo is fair. 
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to match 
every specification of a damaged item where that would put a customer in a better position 
than if the loss hadnt occurred. But it shouldnt put them in a worse position either. 
Mrs and Mr Ls policy, in common with many home insurance policies, allows Ageas to settle 
this claim in a number of ways. I say this because the terms and conditions of their 
insurance policy allow Ageas to either replace or repair an item or make a money payment 
instead. They state:
If we approve your claim, well ask you to pay the excess. Well then repair or replace your 
damaged, lost or stolen items. Alternatively, we may make you a cash offer. Well decide 
which way of paying your claim is most appropriate.
Here, Mrs and Mr L are unable to receive an identical replacement stereo or have their 
stereo repaired due to advances in technology since their damaged item was purchased. So, 
Ageas duty here is to provide the best match, or nearest equivalent, it can.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that when Ageas assessed Mrs and Mr Ls 
claim it was aware of the specifics of the model that has been damaged. While it incorrectly 
quoted a different model in correspondence to Mrs and Mr L, its clear from the 
documentation Ive had sight of that Ageas knew the model number and functionality of the 
original stereo that was damaged as a result of the escape of water.  
Mrs and Mr L have expressed their unhappiness at S involvement in their claim. But S is a 
recognised organisation that regularly assesses electrical damage on behalf of insurers. And 
our service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a 
customers property to assist it in assessing a claim. So, I cant fairly find that Ageas acted 
unfairly in appointing S here.
Its clear Mrs and Mr L dont think that the replacements proposed by S are the same quality 
to their damaged stereo. And I can see they made our investigator aware of the differences 
between their stereo and the models S proposed. Ive carefully considered the features of 
the two models S recommended and compared them to the capabilities of Mrs and Mr Ls 
original stereo.
It isnt disputed that Mrs and Mr Ls damaged stereo was a flagship model in 1985 when it 
was purchased. And I can see it cost them a lot when it was bought. I can see that Mrs and 
Mr L appear to be unhappy at the cost of the replacement stereo theyve been offered. Theyve provided a report from a company, which states that a reasonable replacement 
cost would be in the region of £750. And theyve submitted calculations, which they believe 
show what they think their damaged stereo would be worth today. 
The report Mrs and Mr L have provided is of limited value as it doesnt show how the 
valuation has been calculated. And the calculations theyve provided dont take into account 
that the technology market moves on rapidly and costs can decrease quickly as new 
technologies emerge and existing technologies advance. Therefore, providing an equivalent 
stereo will become considerably cheaper over time. So, the specification, rather than price, 
of the replacement model is whats important here.
While the replacement models S proposed cant play both sides of an LP without removing 
it, they do have other features such as a comparable sound output, DAB/FM tuner, CD 
player, Bluetooth functionality and Aux input. Having considered the features of the 
replacement models S proposed, Im persuaded they are a better technical specification to 
the original stereo. Im therefore satisfied that Ageas offered the closest like for like 
equivalent in terms of quality and specification. I dont think its has put Mrs and Mr L in a 
worse position.
Ive considered the specification of the model Mrs and Mr L suggested. This model appears 
to be a substantial improvement when compared to the original stereo. So, Im persuaded 
that, if Ageas was to replace Mrs and Mr Ls stereo with their preferred model, this would 
result in them receiving a substantially better stereo. This would be contrary to the terms of 
their policy as it would place them in a better position overall. So, it would be unfair to ask 
Ageas to offer Mrs and Mr L the model they requested here.
Had Mrs and Mr L accepted the replacement stereo they were offered, Ageas would have 
met its obligation to them under this policy. However, they didnt want the replacement 
proposed. So, Ageas decided to cash settle this claim. 
Ageas could have declined to cash settle Mrs and Mr Ls claim. I say this because, under the 
terms of its policy, it has discretion as to how it chooses to settle claims a policyholder 
makes as Ive already outlined. Here, it paid Mrs and Mr L a cash settlement of £329. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied this is what it would have cost Ageas were it to 
purchase the replacement model S recommended, So, I think the cash settlement sum 
Ageas paid Mrs and Mr L was fair and reasonable. It follows that Im not going to direct it to 
increase that payment.
I understand Mrs and Mr L feel very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and I 
realise theyll be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons already outlined I think 
Ageas has dealt with this claim fairly. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman