DRN-3835510
The complaint
The estate of Mr R has complained about Phoenix Life Limiteds assessment of 
retrospective claims made under two hospital cash plans. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy ending 730
The policy terms explain that a claim will be paid if the insured is admitted to hospital as an 
in-patient for treatment of an injury or sickness. In-patient is defined as:
means a person confined to hospital principally for the purpose of active remedial medical or 
surgical treatment and not merely for rest, nursing, convalescence, rehabilitation or extended 
care.
The late Mr R had a fall in April 2015. He was admitted to hospital on 13 April 2015 and 
remained there until 5 May 2015. Phoenix Life has paid the claim for this period. 
Mr R was then moved to a different hospital and remained there until 3 August 2015. 
Phoenix Life has refused to pay the claim for this period, as it does not think Mr R was an in-
patient, as defined by the policy.
Ive read the letter from Mr Rs treating consultant to the second hospital. He asked if Mr R 
could be accepted for a period of rehabilitation. He confirmed the injuries that Mr R had 
sustained and said they had been treated. He said Mr R was fully weight-bearing, but 
needed help. The consultant repeated that he wanted Mr R to have rehabilitation, but 
confirmed he would review him in his fracture clinic until his injuries were healed. 
Im satisfied this evidence supports that Mr Rs second hospital admission was principally for 
rehabilitation rather than medical or surgical treatment. I therefore find it was reasonable for 
Phoenix Life to conclude that the claim for the second hospital admission was not payable.
The representative for the estate considers the name of the policy to be misleading, as it is 
called a convalescence cash plan but does not provide cover for rehabilitation. I can 
appreciate the representatives point, but the policy terms explain what is covered and that 
the main aim of the policy is to pay benefit if the insured is confined to hospital for treatment 
for injury or sickness (this is referred to as convalescence benefit). However, if the estate 
has concerns about the sale of the policy because it considers Mr R did not understand what 
cover the policy provided, it should raise its concerns with Phoenix Life in the first instance.
Policy ending 867
This policy explains that if no benefit has been paid for 120 consecutive months, 100% of the 
premiums will be refunded. 
As Mr R hadnt made any claims over that period, Phoenix Life paid him £366 in refunded 
premiums in 2016. Its for this reason that Phoenix Life refused to consider retrospective 
claims from 2015. 
Its not known why Mr R didnt make claims to Phoenix Life in 2015. However, Ive taken into 
account that he was elderly and may not have entirely understood at that time that he was 
entitled to make a claim. I agree with our investigator that it seems unlikely Mr R understood 
that the premium refund may be less than the amount he could receive in claims. 
Whilst I appreciate Phoenix Life was technically correct to refuse to consider retrospective 
claims when it had refunded the premiums, I think it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Phoenix Life to do so. If the claim/s are payable, then Phoenix Life can 
deduct the refunded premium from any settlement. I dont require Phoenix Life to pay 
interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Phoenix Life Limited to 
assess the claims from 2015 under the policy ending 867. If payable, then it can deduct the 
refunded premium from the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman