DRN-2726665
The complaint
Mr H says Greenlight Credit Limited (trading as Varooma) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
 Mr H borrowed £2,800 from Varooma on 12 January 2019. The loan had a 36-month term,
the monthly repayments were £241.11 and the total repayable was £8697.96. Mr H made his
repayments in full until February 2020. He then made part payments until he surrendered his
car in November 2020; Varooma sold it for £3213.20 and wrote off the remaining
outstanding balance of £2376.81.
The loan was a log book loan. It was given on the basis that Mr H provided Varooma with a
bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr B didnt make his loan repayments, Varooma
could potentially recover its losses through the sale of the car  as happened.
Mr H says Varooma lent to him when he was desperate. It could see from his bank
statements he wasnt in a position to repay the loan and it should have seen from its credit
check that he had defaulted on a number of accounts.
Varooma disagreed and said its checks showed the loan was affordable at the time of
application.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said the checks
were proportionate but Varooma hadnt made a fair lending decision. She said from Mr Hs
credit history Varooma ought to have realised Mr H would have difficulty sustainably
repaying the loan.
Varooma disagreed saying, in summary, Mr H had enough disposable income to cover his
existing debts and this loan. And Mr H shouldnt be penalised because he is repaying
historic debts that defaulted.
I reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator, but at points my findings varied and I
set out the redress in more detail, so I issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision) asking for any further evidence or comments by 12 April 
2021.
Both parties responded prior to this deadline.
Extract from my provisional decision
Varooma asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income, living expenses and about any credit cards or loans he was repaying. It
carried out a credit check. This gave very high-level information, looking at Mr Hs unsecured
debt to income ratio and balance. It verified his income using his bank statements. And it
asked about the purpose of the loan which was home improvements. From these checks
combined Varooma concluded that Mr H would have £238.89 of disposable income
remaining after making its loan repayments and so the loan was affordable.
It seems these checks were proportionate, but Im not persuaded that Varooma made a fair
lending decision based on the information it gathered. Whilst Varooma has explained how it
verified Mr Hs income, I cant see it did the same for his expenditure. It had the information it
needed in Mr Hs bank statements but it doesnt seem that it fully considered Mr Hs
expenditure. Had it done so, in addition to seeing that the pounds and pence affordability of
the loan varied from its analysis based on Mr Hs declared living costs, it would have seen
that Mr H was making weekly repayments to a payday lender and several nominal payments
each week to at least four different debt collections agencies. This was not something he
had declared on the application call when asked about current credit commitments. And I
think they were indications that there was a risk Mr H might not be able to sustainably meet
his repayments.
As our adjudicator said, Mr Hs credit file shows that he had defaulted on multiple accounts
in the last 24 months. Varooma argues that Mr H shouldnt be penalised for historic defaults
that he was gradually repaying. But Im not persuaded it is fair to Mr H to categorise his
position as having had financial difficulties in the past - and to conclude that Mr H now had
no problems managing his money. In the six months prior to his loan application Mr H had
defaulted on three credit accounts. And I think Varooma ought to have realised from the data
it had gathered that it was most likely Mr Hs finances were not stable and that there was a
risk he wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan.
In addition, Mr Hs income level meant it may have been harder for him to sustain his credit
repayments  and this loan repayment of £241.11 represented a significant proportion of his
monthly income which seems to have been around £960 a month. As Varooma was aware,
Mr Hs income wasnt a fixed monthly sum - there was some variability - which increased the
risk of his borrowing. Mr H was entering into a long-term commitment for high-cost credit and
would need to make monthly repayments for three years. And there was the possibility of
losing his car if he couldnt make his repayments.
So I think there were clear indications that there was a high risk that Mr H might not be able
to sustainably repay this loan. And as a responsible lender, I think Varooma ought to have
made a different lending decision. It follows I currently think Mr H has lost out because of
what Varooma did wrong.
I have also considered whether Varooma acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Mr H has told us it would not reduce his repayments to an affordable level and didnt
suspend interest. I have seen earlier correspondence - he contacted them in July 2019
asking to defer the next payment and split it over the remaining payments. Varoom offered to
split the deferral over the next two months and Mr H accepted this. I havent had sight of any
more recent correspondence about putting in place arrangement to pay from February 2020
onwards and Varoom hasnt commented on this. Mr H says he was only given the option to
pay a lump sum or surrender the car so he surrendered the car as he couldnt find a way to
make the repayments.
But I can see from the statement of account that Varoom accepted a reduced monthly
payment of £100 six times between March and October 2020. So it seems it did try to assist
Mr H. It maybe it could have done more to respond positively and sympathetically to Mr Hs
financial situation but I havent currently seen enough evidence to conclude it acted unfairly
in this regard.
Putting things right
If I uphold this complaint, as I am planning to, Varooma will have to put Mr H back in the
position he would be in had it not made an irresponsible lending decision. This means Mr H
should have repaid no more than the capital he borrowed, and he should not have needed tosurrender his vehicle. Mr H has confirmed he has not incurred any notable expenses as a
result of surrendering the vehicle so that does not need to be considered in the redress.
Varooma has confirmed that it sold the car for £3213.20 and highlights that as it was a
surrender under the terms of Mr Hs loan agreement, the settlement was that regardless of
what the car sells for the remaining balance is then written-off. But as I dont think Varooma
should have given Mr H this loan, it follows that I dont think he should lose out because of
Varoomas decision to sell the car at that price.
To work out the fair way to put things right I need to understand the market value of the car.
To do this I have reviewed three standard industry price guides that are used for valuing
vehicles (CAP, Carzana and Glasss) and assumed the car was in good condition. Ive done
this as Varooma asked Mr H about the vehicles condition in its email of 26 November 2020,
he said it was in good condition and I cant see it later disputed this after it had collected the
car. On this basis I am estimating the market value to have been the average of the trade
price valuations from the sources listed above (£5178, £5009 and £4780) - so £4989.
So Varooma should:
- add up the total amount Mr H repaid and deduct this sum from the capital amount of
the loan
- as this will result in Mr H having paid more than he received the overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from date of the
overpayments until the date of settlement)
- refund £4989 to Mr H to reflect the estimated market value of his vehicle that he 
had to surrender to repay in part a loan he shouldnt have been given
- remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in respect of the loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to deduct tax from this interest. Varooma should give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As I said earlier, both parties responded to the provisional decision. Mr H said he had 
nothing further to add. Varooma responded saying it agreed to refund, with interest, all 
payments Mr H made in excess of the value of the capital he borrowed. It confirmed it had 
removed the adverse information relating to the loan from his credit file in December 2020. 
But it said my direction to refund the market value of Mr Hs was unreasonable and it would 
not do this. It made the following points in support of its position: 
- Mr H chose to surrender his car as he couldnt make any further repayments.
- The value Varooma realised is good; during the pandemic there are no test drives, 
everything is done online.
- That aside, the number of cars that sell at trade value at auction is very low, 
Varoomas business model is to reserve at 70% of trade value. Selling privately is not 
feasible for logbook loan companies.
- Varooma has already written off the balance of Mr Hs loan and made no profit on 
this lending.- The comment Mr H says he was only given the option to pay a lump sum or 
surrender the car is not true.
- It will agree to put Mr H in the exact same position as to before he took out the loan.
I have considered all these comments carefully. In accepting that it needs to repay to Mr H 
everything he paid over the capital value of the loan, with interest, it seems Varooma 
accepts it should not have lent to Mr H. And it has also said it agrees Mr H should be put 
back in the position he was in before he took out the loan. Unfortunately, it cant do this as it 
has now sold his vehicle. 
And I dont think its reasonable not to consider the fact Mr H lost his car as a consequence 
of being given a loan that Varooma ought to have realised wasnt sustainably affordable for 
him. In addition to the money he had to spend on interest and charges, he no longer has the 
asset he secured the loan against. Whilst this could be an acceptable outcome if he 
breached the terms of a loan that was lent responsibly, that is not the case here. And for him 
to replace the vehicle  and so be in the position he was in before he took out the loan  
Varooma needs to pay him the estimated market value of the car from the time it was sold. 
As I have found Varooma was at fault in its lending decision, fair redress must consider all of 
Mr Hs financial loss. Had Varooma not approved the loan he would not have been in the 
position that led to his decision to surrender his car. 
With regards Varoomas penultimate comment, Mr Hs comment has already been 
acknowledged to be inaccurate in the provisional decision where I noted reduced monthly 
repayments were accepted for a period of time.
Varooma raises the impact of the pandemic on vehicle values, but this has been considered 
as the three valuations are all from November 2020 and so they are reflective of the market 
at the time of the sale. It also explained its reserving policy and why it sells at auction. But 
these are commercial decisions it has made that do not reduce the financial loss Mr H 
suffered and what he might reasonably have to pay to replace his car. And the calculation of 
the redress would not be affected by the level of profit or the size of the loss a lender has 
made on a loan that we have concluded should not have been given. 
So for the reasons set out above I remain satisfied the redress is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It follows I have found no grounds to change my findings or 
the outcome in my provisional decision and I am upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right
 Varooma must put Mr H back in the position he would be in had it not made an irresponsible 
lending decision. This means Mr H should have repaid no more than the capital he 
borrowed, and he should not have needed to surrender his vehicle.
So Varooma should:
- add up the total amount Mr H repaid and deduct this sum from the capital amount of
the loan
- as this will result in Mr H having paid more than he received the overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from date of the
overpayments until the date of settlement)
- refund £4989 to Mr H to reflect the estimated market value of his vehicle that he 
had to surrender to repay in part a loan he shouldnt have been given
- remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in respect of the loan 
(I note it has confirmed this was done in December 2020).*HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to deduct tax from this interest. Varooma should give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Greenlight Credit Limited (trading as Varooma) must now 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman