DRN-2563293
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have unfairly 
settled a negligence claim made against him by a third party. 
What happened
Mr M is a tradesman who holds a business protection policy with Ageas. 
An individual (the claimant) was injured as a result of her AGA exploding, and she brought 
a negligence claim against the plumber that last visited her property (the third-party 
plumber). The cause of the explosion was believed to have been the third-party plumbers 
failure to re-open isolation valves which he had closed in order to replace a radiator. 
The third-party plumber subsequently made a negligence claim against Mr M for an 
indemnity or contribution to the claimants damages. This was on the basis that he had 
serviced the AGA six weeks prior to the incident and should have realised that the isolation 
valves posed a risk, such that he should have recommended they be removed.
Mr M is unhappy with the way Ageas conducted his claim, as they chose to settle it without 
seeking his agreement. He doesnt consider that he had any involvement or liability in the 
accident, so he says that the insurer should have defended liability, as this has now 
damaged his reputation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Ageas had settled the 
claim fairly after receiving advice and reports from forensic experts as well as legal counsel 
on the subject of liability. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
I understand that Mr M strenuously disputes any liability or involvement with the claimants 
accident, and I appreciate that he is seeking to be vindicated from any wrongdoing in 
connection with it. However, as pointed out by the investigator, this service is neither able to 
consider the cause of the accident, nor whether Mr M is liable for it, as this would be a 
matter for the courts and qualified experts to determine. What I am able to consider is 
whether Ageas has handled the claim fairly by deciding to settle it based on the evidence 
and advice they had received, rather than choosing to defend liability in court.
The policy terms and conditions set out how claims will be conducted by the insurer:
Claims Procedure  Our Rights
We shall:

c. have complete control of any proceedings and the settlement of any claim. 
The policy also sets out Ageass right of subrogation in this regard:
Subrogation
Before or after any payment is made by us we can at our option:
a. negotiate, defend or settle, in your name and on your behalf, any claims made 
against you
take legal action in your name but for our benefit to get back any payment we have 
made under this policy.
These policy terms and conditions essentially give Ageas a contractual right to settle the 
claim how they see fit. It is the insurers right of subrogation, and they do not need the 
agreement or consent of Mr M as the policyholder to either pursue, defend or settle legal 
action against any third party. However, the insurers decision in this regard should still be 
reasonable in light of all the evidence available and circumstances of the claim.
Toward that end, I can see that Ageas relied on the legal advice of their solicitors (who had 
also instructed a forensic expert to consider liability) before deciding whether to settle. The 
expert said that if Mr M had been aware of the service/isolation valves when servicing the 
AGA, he should have taken action and recommended they be removed. 
I appreciate that Mr M says he had no knowledge of the isolation valves. But Ageas also 
sought counsels opinion on this matter, who noted that Mr M had serviced the AGA several 
times, such that a court would find it hard to accept that he wouldnt have been aware of the 
existence of the valves, particularly as he had commissioned the boiler and had undertaken 
plumbing work in the property. Based on the evidence and reports hed been given, counsel 
considered that Mr M ought to have been in a position to have done something about the 
valves and was of the view that the claimant would succeed in establishing liability against 
both Mr M and the third-party plumber. He therefore advised that liability should be 
conceded and split between Mr M and the third-party plumber in these circumstances.
So, taking into account the information Ageas had at the time, including the legal advice 
theyd received, I do not think it was unreasonable for them to concede shared liability with 
the third-party plumber rather than contesting it. Mr M also hasnt provided any independent 
expert evidence to contradict the findings and opinions of Ageass qualified professionals. So 
Im satisfied their decision to settle the claim has been made fairly and reasonably. It was 
based on legal advice from qualified professionals and the facts and evidence of the claim 
as they were presented. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about his involvement in the accident and wanted 
Ageas to defend liability in court. But even if his case for defending liability had merit, it is still 
not clear cut. Litigation is inherently uncertain, even in circumstances where a claimant or 
defendant has reasonable prospects of success. So, even if Ageass decision to settle rather 
than defend or contest the matter in court was a commercial or financially motivated one, I 
dont think this would be unreasonable in the circumstances either. An insurer is a custodian 
of pooled funds which have to be managed responsibly. And with such a fiduciary duty, they 
cannot be expected to defend or pursue legal action at any cost, just because the 
policyholder feels strongly about the matter or wants to protect their reputation. And given 
the high costs and inherent uncertainties surrounding litigation, it seems a prudent and reasonable strategy for an insurer to take.
So Im not persuaded that Ageass decision to concede liability can be considered as 
unreasonable in these circumstances. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr M, but Im not persuaded the insurer has done anything wrong, so I will not be directing 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman