DRN-2065818
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy as he feels The Claims Guys Limited didnt submit his claim for mis-sold 
mortgage PPI (payment protection insurance) correctly, and now he is out of time to submit 
the claim to his lender.
What happened
Mr W has explained that he took out PPI on a mortgage, with this running from when he took 
out the mortgage in 1997, to when he cancelled the PPI in 1998. 
Because Mr W felt the PPI had been mis-sold to him on that occasion, he authorised The 
Claims Guys to act on his behalf  pursing his claim against the lender for him. 
Mr W filled out a questionnaire, explaining what had happened in relation to the sale of the 
PPI, and why he felt this was mis-sold to him. He also provided documentation from 1997 
and 1998 which confirmed the PPI taken out for the mortgage, as well as its cancellation. 
The Claims Guys noted it had submitted the claim on Mr Ws behalf, before the deadline to 
submit PPI mis-sale claims, which was 29 August 2019. 
But it was later discovered that The Claims Guys had made an error, in relation to the 
submission of the claim. So, Mr W raised a complaint about this.
In November 2019, The Claims Guys responded, and agreed it had made an error in this 
case. It said it had sent the claims submission to the wrong place for consideration. And it 
also noted the claim was detailed as about PPI on a loan, rather than a mortgage. These two 
factors meant the PPI claim hadnt been submitted to the correct lender by the final deadline 
for claims in August 2019. 
In addition to this, The Claims Guys acknowledged that Mr W had sent an email requesting 
an update on this claim, in early July 2019, which was not responded to, until after Mr W 
chased a response. The Claims Guys apologised for the level of service provided. And 
offered Mr W an amount of £300 compensation for the upset caused by the poor level of 
service. It later increased this amount to £500. 
Mr W remained unhappy with The Claims Guys response. So, he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator thought the offer of £500 provided by The Claims Guys was fair in the 
circumstances. She said an error had been made, but the £500 was a reasonable level of 
compensation to recognise the loss of opportunity Mr W experienced, as well as for the 
upset poor customer service had caused.
Mr W didnt agree. He explained he didnt think £500 was enough compensation in his case. 
Mr W noted he had spent a large amount of time and effort in trying to make sure The 
Claims Guys hadnt made a mistake and sent this claim to the wrong place. Only to discover 
later that this was exactly what had happened. Mr W also said he thought he had a strong 
case for having been mis-sold PPI on his mortgage, and that the payment he would have 
likely received would have been more than the £500 offered here. So, he felt the 
compensation awarded should be increased.
Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, this complaint was referred to me to
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that The Claims Guys offer of £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Ive explained why below.
It isnt in dispute that The Claims Guys made a mistake here. Mr W provided it with 
information detailing the PPI he felt was mis-sold. He explained this was PPI on a mortgage, 
gave details of the lender the insurance had been purchased through, when this was, and 
details to identify the account. So, The Claims Guys had the information it needed, to submit 
the claim, to the right lender, noting it as a mortgage PPI claim. 
But it didnt do this. And, because the above wasnt correctly carried out, Mr W missed the 
deadline to make his PPI mis-sale claim. 
Its important to note that although Mr W felt he had a strong case for his claim being 
successful  this isnt something I can be sure of. It may have been decided that the policy 
wasnt mis-sold  and therefore no redress was due to Mr W. 
But its clear Mr W did lose the opportunity to find out. And I can appreciate how this would 
have been frustrating and upsetting for him. Mr W has also noted that he contacted The 
Claims Guys on a number of occasions, seeking to make sure his claim was on track, and 
despite this, mistakes were still made, which has added additional frustration and 
inconvenience to the situation. 
Having looked at the contact notes provided to me, I can see Mr W was contacting The 
Claims Guys, asking for updates, and made it clear the claim was in relation to a mortgage 
on several occasions. And Im aware The Claims Guys has acknowledged an occasion in 
July 2019 when it didnt respond to Mr W as it should have. And that it gave him incorrect 
information  noting that the lender it sent the claim to would pass his claim on to the 
relevant firm, when there was no evidence of this.
Given the inconvenience, upset and frustration Mr W experienced, I do think its fair for The 
Claims Guys to pay compensation to Mr W, for the impact its error caused. 
So, Ive thought about whether £500 is a fair figure for this. And I think it is. I know Mr W 
thinks he may have received a four-figure settlement if his claim was successful. But, as 
above, I cant be sure of this, and therefore cant say that the error caused this level of 
impact. Im satisfied the amount of £500 reasonably recognises the impact I can identify has 
having flowed from The Claims Guys error  this being the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience Mr W experienced as a result of the error. And because of this, I dont require 
The Claims Guys to increase its offer of compensation.
My final decisionIn light of the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the £500 already offered is fair. So, 
I dont require The Claims Guys Limited to do anything more.
Its my understanding that the £500 has already been paid to Mr W. But, if it hasnt, The 
Claims Guys should provide this to Mr W, within 28 days of us telling it Mr W accepted my 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman