DRN-3223719
The complaint
Mr O has complained that MBNA Limited has unfairly turned down his claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In June 2004 Mr O purchased two weeks in a timeshare apartment in Cyprus. The total 
cost (including admin fees and the first-year management fee) was £19,175. Mr O paid 
for the timeshare in a number of ways. He surrendered an existing timeshare for £7,795 
and paid £1,100 on his credit card. The remaining balance was paid by a bank transfer 
which Mr O has said was part funded by a loan.
Mr Os credit card was provided by another business which was subsequently purchased 
by MBNA, who now has responsibility for this complaint. Due to this, and for ease, this 
decision will refer throughout to the purchase being made on his MBNA credit card.
Mr O has said he and his partner first came into contact with the timeshare supplier in 
Cyprus when they were stopped on the street and handed a scratch card. Hes said they 
were told theyd won a prize and invited to a presentation, but during this presentation 
they were subject to aggressive sales tactics. They were told that purchasing this 
timeshare would provide them with better booking availability, the ability to add extra 
weeks, a higher standard of accommodation and low maintenance fees. However, after 
becoming members of this timeshare they experienced the same difficulties in booking 
holidays, including when they tried to book extra weeks, and found that they could book 
the same holidays cheaper independently. The maintenance fees also continued to 
increase. Mr O feels he was misled and mis-sold, so hes argued that the timeshare was 
misrepresented to him.
MBNA considered Mr Os claim, but felt he raised it too late. It argued that the time limit 
he needed to raise his claim was set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) which it said was 
within six years of the event being complained about (the timeshare being misrepresented 
to him). As Mr O raised his complaint outside this time, MBNA argued it didnt need to 
consider it further. MBNA has also since said that because Mr O paid a different party to 
the timeshare provider, there wasnt the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain 
needed to make a s75 CCA claim.
Mr O didnt agree with MBNAs decision to decline his claim. In particular, he felt it was 
unfair to say he hadnt complained in time because he wasnt aware there were time limits 
in place. As Mr O was unhappy with MBNAs response, he referred his complaint to our 
service.
Most recently one of our investigators considered this complaint. She felt that Mr O had 
raised his complaint too late and outside the time limits set out in the LA. So she didnt 
think MBNA had acted unfairly in declining Mr Os claim. Mr O remained unhappy with 
this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out why I agreed with the 
outcome which was previously reached, but for slightly different reasons. In my 
provisional decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I currently dont 
think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below.
Mr O has two potential claims either under s75 CCA or s140A CCA. I have considered 
both in this decision and will address each in turn.
Misrepresentation claim under s75 CCA
Section 75 CCA makes the provider of credit (MBNA in this case) equally liable where 
there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods 
or services. As explained above, Mr O has argued, for a number of reasons, that the 
timeshare was misrepresented to him. For s75 CCA to apply there are a number of 
criteria that need to be met, one of which is a valid DCS agreement between the 
parties.
As explained above, MBNA believes there isnt a sufficient DCS agreement in place. If 
I considered the circumstances of this transaction and found there was the right kind 
of arrangements in place between the parties, MBNA would still be entitled to rely on 
the time limits set out in the LA as a defence to answering this claim (provided they 
would result in the claim being made out of time). And so Ive considered whether or 
not Mr Os s75 CCA claim was made within the time limits set out by the LA.
A claim for misrepresentation brought against the supplier would be brought under 
s2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. This type of claim is an action founded in tort 
and covered by s2 LA or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute under s9 
LA. (The authority for this is Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887.) Both 
provisions of the LA provide the claimant (Mr O) with six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued. In addition, Mr O has brought his like claim for 
misrepresentation by the supplier against MBNA, relying on s75 CCA. This would 
again be covered by s9 LA and give Mr O the six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. So either provision gives Mr O the same amount of time to 
raise his claim.
Mr O has said that the timeshare was misrepresented to him and that it was these 
misrepresentations that persuaded him to purchase the timeshare. He has requested a 
full refund of the funds paid for the timeshare. Based on what hes said its clear Mr O is 
arguing he wouldnt have entered this agreement if it hadnt been misrepresented to 
him. And so I think the date on which the cause of action accrued was the date he 
entered into this contract  that was the date he relied on the alleged 
misrepresentations and suffered a loss because of them by paying for the timeshare. 
Having reviewed a copy of Mr Os contact I can see that next to his signature he has 
dated it 5 June 2004. However, Mr O didnt contact MBNA about this until 2016 and so 
it was raised outside the time limits specified by s2 and s9 LA.
Mr O has said that he wasnt aware the time limits were in place. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr Os comments, the sections of the LA which apply dont take into consideration 
when Mr O became aware there was a problem or whether or not he knew there could 
be time limits for making a claim. I therefore dont think MBNA has acted unfairly in 
relation to Mr Os s75 CCA claim. I think it was entitled to rely on the time limits with 
the LA. It follows that I dont need to make a finding on whether or not there was a 
valid DCS agreement in place as, even if I thought there was, MBNA could rely on the 
LA as a defence.
The claim under s140A CCA
Under s140A CCA courts have the power to decide the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor was unfair and if it does, the courts have a range of powers to address this as set out in s140B CCA. Mr O has said he feels he was misled and mis-sold when he 
purchased the timeshare and that it was misrepresented to him. My role as an 
ombudsman is to consider the substance (i.e. the subject matter) of a complaint, rather 
than be limited to the precise way its expressed. Having done so, I think the subject 
matter of Mr Os complaint makes a claim under s140A CCA a relevant consideration 
here.
In addition, s56 CCA can make MBNA liable for things said or done by the supplier 
before Mr O agreed to take out the timeshare. As part of considering any potential 
unfairness, I think considering what was said and done prior to Mr O taking out the 
timeshare is also relevant here. Scotland and Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited 
[2014] EWCA Civ 790. provides the authority for misrepresentation to be considered 
under s140 CCA. It also provides the authority that s56 CCA can be applied when 
considering the fairness of a relationship under s140 CCA.
Both s140 CCA and s56 CCA require a DCS agreement to be in place, in the same way 
that s75 CCA does. As explained above, MBNA doesnt agree a there is a valid DCS 
agreement in place. As with the claim under s75 CCA, Im not going to go on and 
consider the various arrangements in place to determine if there is a valid DCS 
agreement. This is because the same provisions of the LA would apply to this claim as 
they do to a s75 CCA claim and would provide MBNA with a complete defence to it. So 
Im going to go on and consider if the complaint was made within the time limits outlined 
in the LA.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB). that when considering s.140A 
CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the relationship arising 
from the credit agreement ended (if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made). So I need to consider when the relationship arising from the credit agreement 
ended. I think s9 CCA is also relevant here as it defines a credit agreement as an 
agreement between a debtor and a creditor where the creditor provides the debtor with 
credit of any amount.
Taking this into consideration, I think the date the relationship arising out of the credit 
agreement ended, was when the credit was repaid. However, with a credit card this 
presents a number of challenges. A credit card provides an upper credit limit (which can 
be amended) and allows the cardholder to make multiple purchases. A cardholder isnt 
required to clear a balance between each purchase, instead they have a total 
outstanding balance of the amount owed to the credit card provider. A cardholder also 
isnt typically required to clear the balance after each statement period (although some 
cardholders may choose to manage the account in this way) and may make partial 
payments towards the outstanding balance.
Should this be the case it would be difficult to fairly apportion a partial payment across 
all purchases made on a credit card. I therefore think with this type of credit, the 
relationship arising out of the credit agreement could only end when, after Mr O part 
paid for the timeshare using his credit card, his balance was next repaid in full  that 
would mean he no longer owed anything to MBNA that related to the timeshare 
purchase. At that stage any further payments made using the credit card would give 
rise to new borrowings and a new relationship for that borrowing.
Given how long ago the events took place, I have limited information about what 
happened on the account. I therefore cant definitively say when the balance was first 
repaid in full on Mr Os credit card account (after he part paid for the timeshare on his 
credit card in June 2004.) However, I do have a copy of Mr Os credit card statement 
from July 2007 which shows the balance was repaid in full on 17 July 2007. As Ive 
explained above, the limitation period for s75 CCA claim is the same as a s140A CCA 
claim and so if I accept the first time the balance was repaid in full was July 2007, Mr O would still have had six years from this time to bring his claim. As the claim was 
raised outside of this time period, I think an action under s140A was also brought too 
late. 
MBNA didnt assess any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have, so I cant say it 
acted fairly by not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So I currently dont 
think it needs to do anything further.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further theyd like me to consider before I 
reach a final decision.
I understand Mr O experienced some customer service issues when he raised his claim 
and subsequent complaint. MBNA has already provided compensation for this which 
Mr O has accepted. As such I wont be considering these consumer service concerns in 
this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Therefore, having reconsidered this complaint, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. And so it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against MBNA Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
