The complaint  
Ms I complains about the way  that her residential landlord insurance claim for storm/other 
damage was dealt with by Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE. The claim was handled by 
Libertys claim handlers though for convenience Ill refer to Liberty throughout.  
What happened  
In June 2020 Ms Is agent reported to her that her tenanted property had been damaged due 
to a storm the previous weekend. This was caused, she believed, by the tiles at the edge of 
the roof being lifted which had caused the mortar to weaken. She reported the claim to 
Liberty who reviewed it, including photos and a roofers report supplied by Ms I. It also 
checked the weather records. It advised Ms I that there were no storm conditions, and said 
that the damage was likely caused by weathering and that her r oofers report highlighted that 
the roof was in a poor condition before the claim.  
Ms I strongly disputed that the roof was in a poor condition. Her roofer had made an error in 
its report and referred to the state of the neighbours property, not to hers.  She supplied 
photos of the actual damage to her property and asked Liberty to come out and inspect the 
property. Liberty declined to do so and said Ms I hadnt shown she had a claim covered 
under her policy.  
On referral to this service our investigator s aid that the claim wasnt covered and that Liberty 
had acted reasonably.  
I issued a provisional decision. Although I agreed with the investigators view I thought the 
issue of whether there was a storm and whether it caused the damage ought to addressed 
further.  
Liberty accepted my provisional findings.  
Ms I didnt accept those findings, and Ill set out her comments below.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the c ircumstances of this complaint.  
DRN-2732957I issued a provisional decision, and set out my findings here:  
 
In assessing this matter I must advise Ms I that this service acts as an alternative dispute 
resolution service. Our function is to resolve complaints informally. To that end I wont set 
out here a detailed point by point review of the evidence. I will set  out the main issues of 
complaint and address them. I should say at the outset that I wont be reviewing the way that 
Liberty  handled  Ms Is complaint.  Complaint  handling  by a business  isnt a regulated  activity 
and as such doesn t come under my powers to consider.  
 
the claim  
 
When a claim is made it is up to the policyholder to show that they do, on the face of it, have 
a claim. Here Liberty has said that it isnt covered under storm and that no other part of the 
policy applies. I think it fair to say that the only other cover in the policy that could apply is 
accidental damage, which Ill mention below.  
 
storm  
 
As Ms I has been informed both by Liberty and by our investigator, when considering claims 
for storm damage, to decide i f the storm cover applies we ask three questions and it is only if 
the answer to each of those questions is yes that we would be likely to uphold the 
complaint. The questions are:  
 
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on  or around 
the date the damage is said to have happened?  
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage? 
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
 
were there storm conditions?  
 
For damage to come under this cover in the policy, there has to be a single identifiable storm 
event, but not general bad weather. Storm isnt defined in the policy but we generally 
consider storm to involve violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail  or snow. Here 
there were no violent winds, the maximum peak gust being up to around 26mph. But 
occasionally, if it is unusually intense and exceptional, rainfall alone can constitute a storm. 
And here, although there was no extreme rainfall the weekend th e damage was said to have 
happened, I have noted that during the previous week there was exceptionally heavy rain  
of up to 31mm in an hour on the previous Monday. As it wasnt clear exactly when the 
damage took place Ill assume there was a storm on or a round the date it was said to have 
happened.  
 
was the damage consistent with storm conditions?  
 
The damage, as described by Ms I and as shown in her photos, was the tiles at the edge of 
the roof being lifted causing the mortar to weaken. But noting the nat ure of any storm 
involved just light winds I dont think the damage described is consistent with the storm 
conditions. But, in light of Ms Is comments about the condition of her roof, I will go on to look 
at the third question.  
 
was the storm the main cau se of the damage?  
 
Its been said the roof was in poor condition. This is because of a report from a roofer that 
Ms I employed to carry out emergency repairs. I understand that the roofer was referring to 
the neighbours roof. The damage here as Ive said was the mortar loosening and falling out 
under the tiles at the side of the roof. But given that there were just light winds around the  
 
 
 
 time of the claim I dont think that rainfall alone, however intense, would have caused the 
sort of damage claimed for. I can believe that the mortar was subject to weathering over a 
longer period, but as Ive said, bad weather alone doesnt come under the storm cover.  
 
accidental damage  
 
I note Ms I has extra accidental damage cover in her policy. This is defined in t he policy as:  
Unexpected physical damage caused suddenly by an identifiable external means.  
 
While the eventual falling out of the mortar may have been sudden, the only external means 
that can be identified is the weathering over a period of time. And there is an exclusion under 
this cover for Atmospheric or climatic conditions or frost.  
 
So unle ss Ms I is able to identify any other cause than the weather, the claim isnt covered 
under accidental damage.  
 
claim handling  
 
Ms I complains that Liberty referred to a £100 excess, which she says there isnt. And that it 
failed to send out a loss adjuste r to assess the damage, and then referred to the weather 
records for the property she lives in rather than the insured property. She further complained 
about the way the claim was handled, that Liberty did not fairly and objectively assess the 
claim and re fused to seek an underwriters opinion. Overall she believes it was dealt with 
unprofessionally.  
 
With regard to the excess, according to the policy schedule, apart from subsidence and 
escape of water there is a £100 excess for flood and any other claims. I note that a loss 
adjuster wasnt sent out but given Ms Is description of the damage and the photos together 
with the weather reports I cant say that Liberty was wrong to decline the claim without going 
out to inspect. It is for Ms I to show she has a c laim, and she was invited to send in any 
further evidence. I note Liberty looked at the wrong records for the weather but as the same 
weather station was used to show the weather conditions this didnt affect its overall view of 
the claim.  
 
Turning to Ms I s complaint that the whole matter was handled unprofessionally, I refer to my 
earlier comments and reiterate that I wont be looking at the evidence point by point in this 
decision. Looking at the matter as a whole, I think Ms I received a reasonable resp onse to 
her claim within a reasonable length of time. It was up to Liberty how it carried out its review 
of the claim, theres no right or wrong way when or if it decides to bring in more senior staff 
to look at the claim. I havent assessed the way her co mplaint was handled since as Ive said 
that doesnt come within my powers to deal  with. 
 
Ms I believes I haven't looked at whether Liberty treated her fairly, acted professionally and 
provided accurate information in their dealings with her. And that I ha ve placed all the 
burden on her to prove every single claim and relied on insurance definitions and legal terms 
rather than consider reasonableness in my  evaluation.  
 
So far as Libertys handling of the case is concerned I set out my findings under claim 
handling above. I think Ms I was treated fairly, although must emphasise that I havent 
considered the way her complaint was handled for reasons already explained.  
 
All insurance policies form a contract between the policyholder and the insurer. The 
policyholder has to comply with the terms of that contract, which may mean we have to  
 
 
 
 
 consider the meaning of particular insurance terms. The meaning of storm from  an 
insurance point of view is a case in point and consumers may not realise that there is a 
specific approach to this.  
I do of course consider whats fair and reasonable (from both parties point of view) and to 
be fair I have re -looked at the storm reco rds and considered accidental damage, which 
wasnt looked at before. But this doesnt detract from the basic issue  which is that all 
policyholders need to show that they have on the face of it, a claim. It doesnt mean they 
have to prove their whole clai m. Unfortunately in this case I dont believe Ms I was able to 
show this.  
Ms I further said that a storm does not have to be of a specific severity to cause damage to a 
roof. And that had anyone come out to look at it or ask for more details theyd have s een the 
roof was always in good condition. All I would say to this is that the particular damage Ms I 
described and provided pictures of was unlikely to have been caused by the weather 
described around the time of the damage i.e. light winds with possible heavy rain. Again its 
a case of showing theres a likely claim on the face of it which needs to be addressed 
further, and I dont think this was  shown.  
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings which are now final and form part of this final 
decision . 
My final decision  
I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.  
Ray Lawley  
Ombudsman  