DRN-4476324
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont renew the 
overdraft on his business current account at the level it had been previously.
What happened
Mr B had an overdraft facility of £25,000 on his RBS business current account. The overdraft 
facility expired in November 2021, and Mr B wanted RBS to renew the £25,000 facility for a 
further term. But after a review, RBS only offered Mr B a renewed overdraft facility of £4,500. 
Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
RBS responded to Mr B and offered an increased overdraft facility of £10,000. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that was for RBS to offer the overdraft 
facility they felt comfortable offering, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must be noted immediately that an overdraft facility isnt a right that an account holder 
has. Ultimately, its at the discretion of the business being asked to provide the overdraft 
whether they will agree to do so or not.
In this instance, RBS have explained to Mr B that upon review, they dont feel that Mr Bs 
business financial projections and income and expenditure assessment merit an overdraft of 
more than £10,000 at this time. 
Im satisfied that this is a commercial decision that its entirely at RBSs discretion to make. 
And this service wouldnt consider instructing a business such as RBS to provide a line of 
credit to a customer which the business isnt itself willing to provide.
All of which means that I dont feel that RBS have treated Mr B unfairly as he contends here, 
and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any 
further or alternative action. This is because I feel that RBS have made a reasonable 
commercial decision about the size of the overdraft facility theyre presently willing to provide 
to Mr B, and that this is a decision that RBS are fairly entitled to make.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting. But I trust that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman