DRN-2102376
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to 
her the money that she paid for some accommodation. Her husband is also involved with her 
complaint.
 
What happened
Mrs D used her Tesco Bank credit card in October 2019 to pay, on arrival, £380 for a four 
night accommodation booking. The standard of the accommodation wasnt acceptable to her 
so she only stayed for one night and booked alternative accommodation. The 
accommodation provider wouldnt refund to her the money that shed paid for the 
accommodation so she claimed a refund from Tesco Bank under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the chargeback rules. 
Tesco Bank said that as Mrs D had paid for accommodation and received accommodation it 
didnt consider that any breach of contract had occurred and that it was unable to dispute the 
standard of service received for a chargeback claim. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
price of the accommodation for each night was less than £100 so there was no basis for a 
claim under section 75. He also said that Tesco Bank considered the chargeback but 
decided that the accommodation providers defence would lead to a successful defence of 
any claim so didnt proceed with it  which he thought was a reasonable action for it to take.
Mrs D has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has explained 
why she considers that a single booking was made for one stay of four nights with a price of 
£380 and shes referred to a case study provided by this service. She also says she made 
the booking over the internet so had no way of knowing that the accommodation had been 
misrepresented until she was allowed to see the room after shed paid for it. She also 
complains about the accommodation providers cancellation policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
one of those circumstances is that section 75 doesnt apply to a claim so far as the 
claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100;
although Mrs D paid £380 for the accommodation, its clear that it was a four night 
stay for which the accommodation provider charged £95 for each night;
Im not persuaded that the accommodation was provided as a four night package as 
the room was available for a one night booking at the same rate for each night of £95 
as was charged for each night of the four night stay;
Mrs D has referred to a case study provided by this service - but we consider each 
complaint on its individual merits and I consider that Mrs Ds claim relates to a single 
item to which the accommodation provider had attached a cash price not exceeding 
£100;
although Tesco Bank didnt explain this to Mrs D, I dont consider that Mrs D has a 
valid claim under section 75 so Im unable to consider whether theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the accommodation provider;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made but, if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made;
Tesco Bank says that the accommodation provider had provided the accommodation 
to Mrs D and that Mrs Ds concerns about the quality of the accommodation were 
subjective so any chargeback claim would have been successfully defended by the 
accommodation provider  so it decided not to make a claim;
I dont consider that there was a reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback 
claim in these circumstances so Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Tesco Bank not to make such a claim;
I sympathise with Mrs D for the issues that she had with the accommodation, for the 
additional costs and inconvenience that she was caused and for the impact that 
those issues had on her enjoyment of that time  but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that Tesco Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
response to Mrs Ds claim; and  
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Tesco Bank to refund to Mrs D the £380 that she paid for the accommodation, to 
reimburse her for any of the other costs that she incurred, to pay her any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman