DRN-3214943
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way he was treated by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services (VWFS) when he was refinancing the final 
payment on his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In September 2016, Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a 
new car. The cash price of the car was around £20,251. The amount of credit was around 
£18,250. Mr B provided an advance payment of around £2,000, and there were 41 monthly 
repayments of around £221, followed by a final payment of around £9,187. 
Mr B said he decided to get refinancing for the final payment from VWFS, and on 13 March 
2020 VWFS sent him an email asking him to sign the new finance agreement. Mr B said he 
was unable to access the agreement so the next day he called VWFS who said they would 
send him the documents by post for him to sign. Mr B said that that on 21 March 2020 he 
still had not received the documents, so he called VWFS again. On this day, Mr B says he 
was told by VWFS that they will send the paper work again, and that the direct debit (DD) 
due on the 29 March 2020 for the final payment has not been set, so it will not be collected 
and it will show as being in arrears. Mr B said he was worried about this and he said VWFS 
told him that there was no way to stop this from happening. Mr B said that he finally received 
the paperwork for the new finance agreement on 30 March 2020. He said he signed the 
finance agreement and amended the pre-printed bank account information on the DD 
mandate by replacing it with the details of a different bank account. He posted back the 
paperwork on the same day. 
Mr B said that on 9 April 2020, he received a letter informing him that his finance agreement 
was in arrears by around £9,187, and that this would have a negative impact on his credit 
file. He said this caused him to worry and he says that when his wife saw the letter it caused 
her great distress. Mr B said that his wife was very scared of the impact this would have on 
his credit file, and he says this caused his marital relations to go bad. 
Mr B said on 14 April 2020 he received a letter from VWFS which said he had not signed a 
checklist and asked him to do so. He said he did this the same day. On 23 April 2020 he 
received an email from his bank telling him his joint bank account with his wife had a new 
DD set up by VWFS, but that the payments were supposed to come out of a different 
account because, as mentioned above, he amended the pre-printed bank account 
information on the DD mandate. On 24 April 2020, Mr B received a payment schedule from 
VWFS stating payments will be collected by DD of £289.64 on 21 May 2020 and monthly 
thereafter until a final one on 21 April 2023. He said he received a further letter on around 30 
April 2020 from VWFS stating the original agreement had been settled, which he says was a 
relief, as this indicated progress, which meant that at least he knew the car was not going to 
be taken away.  
Mr B says that on 22 May 2020 he found out that VWFS was reporting on his credit file that 
his hire purchase agreement was in arrears. Mr B said this was during a time when he was 
trying to secure funding for his business. He said that he suspects that the adverse impact of 
VWFSs negative credit reference filling has contributed to the rejections he received. So, 
overall, Mr B is unhappy as he said that a very simple transaction to refinance the final 
payment has been made into monumental problem. He said all of this caused him a lot of 
worry, and as a resolution Mr B told us that he wants VWFS to: sort this out, provide 
assurance that it will not repeat it in the future, pay substantial compensation to show his 
wife it was not his fault, and remove the negative information from his credit file. Mr B is also 
unhappy as he said that in March 2020 VWFS falsely reported to credit reference agencies 
that hed missed the February 2020 instalment on his finance agreement which he said had 
a negative impact on him too.
On 11 June 2020, VWFS wrote to Mr B. In this correspondence they explained that when he 
called them requesting the refinance paperwork they explained to him that the final payment 
is not being billed and if it shows in arrears, then he should disregard that communication. 
And when they received the documents from him in April 2020 the checklist was not signed, 
so that is why they requested that he signs it. In this correspondence they go on to say that, 
whilst the original hire purchase agreement was closing down, their system incorrectly 
identified the agreement was in arrears, triggering the messages and letters. They 
apologised for this and thanked Mr B for the feedback, which they said is valuable to help 
them to provide the best service in the future. And they explained that his credit file has not 
been impacted as a result of the delay. On 1 September 2020, VWFS also wrote to Mr B 
explaining that they will remove any adverse information from his credit file.  
Mr B was unhappy with everything that had happened, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and though that VWFS should pay 
Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
VWFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr B disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr B and VWFS that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr B acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
One of the things Mr B is unhappy about is that VWFS were taking DD payments from an 
incorrect account for the new finance agreement he entered into when he was refinancing the final payment of the original hire purchase agreement. Mr B has told us that he signed 
and amended the pre-printed bank account details on the DD mandate by replacing the 
details on there with his new bank account, so he says that VWFS had no authority to take 
payments from his joint account with his wife. Ive seen the document Mr B is referring to 
and I agree that VWFS shouldve been taking payments from his sole account and not from 
his joint bank account with his wife. So, Ive considered what he told us about the impact this 
mistake had on him, but Ive also considered what steps he has taken to mitigate his losses 
due to this error made by VWFS. 
Mr B told us that when he received the letter which confirmed from which account the DD 
payments were going to be taken, he didnt notice that it was referring to the wrong bank 
account, and he told us that he doesnt memorise his bank account numbers. Also, Mr B 
said that he was unaware of the situation for some time. And he doesnt think he had an 
obligation to mitigate the impact of VWFSs error. But I disagree, and I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for him, at the time he received the letter, to check the account details were 
correct and to try and mitigate the situation. 
I think there were many options available to Mr B to try and mitigate the situation. He 
couldve written, emailed, called or accessed his account online to make the necessary 
changes. Ive taken into consideration what Mr B told us about the fact he didnt use the 
VWFS website to access his account to make the change to the DD details, as he had no 
understanding or knowledge of the website, and was unable to operate it. He also told us 
that VWFS was not accepting any calls for a long time but, when they did start to answer 
calls, he said that the wait times were inordinate. So, Ive considered this as well. I fully 
understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr B. And I think VWFS did cause Mr B 
some distress and inconvenience with their mistake. But overall, I have to bear in mind that 
there were other options for Mr B to minimise the impact here, more than he did, especially 
once he realised VWFS were taking payments form the incorrect account. 
Ive also taken into consideration that all businesses were experiencing an unprecedented 
demand on their service due to Covid-19 at the time in question, so unfortunately there may 
have been times when they werent able to handle calls as usual. I dont think that was 
unreasonable considering the circumstances at the time and, like I mentioned, Mr B did have 
other options such as writing an extra letter or an email instead of waiting on the phone. But 
either way, I do understand that this mistake has caused some distress and inconvenience 
for Mr B. So, Ive taken this into consideration when thinking about the amount of 
compensation VWFS should pay him; which I will address towards the end of this decision.  
Another thing Mr B is unhappy about is that in April 2020 he received a letter informing him 
that his account was in arrears by around £9,187. Also, he is unhappy that VWFS falsely 
reported to the credit reference agencies that he missed the February 2020 instalment on his 
finance agreement. He said both issues caused him to worry. He said that receiving the 
arrears letter also caused his marital relations to go bad, because his wife was very scared 
of the impact this would have on his credit file. But in this case, I will and can only consider 
the impact this had on Mr B. 
When VWFS wrote to Mr B on 11 June 2020, it explained that, when he called to request the 
refinancing paperwork, they, at that time, explained that the final payment was not being 
billed, and that if it showed he was in arrears he should disregard that communication. Also, 
VWFS apologised for this and explained that his credit file was not impacted as a result of 
this. On 1 September 2020, they also wrote to Mr B explaining that they will remove any 
adverse information from his credit file. And they have confirmed to our service that this has 
been done with all credit reference agencies they report to. I think removing all adverse information from Mr Bs credit file was the correct action for 
VWFS to take. But I did also take into consideration that Mr B wouldve been worried when 
he received the arrears letter, and when he was informed, incorrectly, that he missed the 
February 2020 instalment on his finance agreement. So, I have taken all of this into 
consideration when thinking about the amount of compensation VWFS should pay Mr B, 
including the fact that it took VWFS about half year to remove the adverse information from 
Mr Bs credit file. 
Before I consider what is reasonable compensation VWFS should pay Mr B for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, I want to first address one more thing Mr B told us he was 
unhappy about. Mr B said that he was trying to secure funding for his business, and that he 
suspects the adverse impact of VWFSs negative credit reference filling have contributed to 
the rejections he received. More specifically, what he has told us is that he didnt allege that 
he failed to get a loan because of the adverse information, but he told us he alleged it was 
partly because of the adverse information.
So, Ive considered all of this, but I cant hold VWFS responsible for these refused loans. Ive 
not seen enough for me to conclude that VWFSs reporting of adverse information on Mr Bs 
credit file was most likely the reason why Mr B himself directly incurred a loss. Most of the 
applications for financing seem to have been made on behalf of a business, and from the 
evidence I havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on Mr Bs 
credit file was why these were declined. From the rejection letters Mr B has provided, and 
based on the information he has told us, I cant say that most likely its VWFSs action that 
directly caused him a financial detriment.
Considering everything, I think VWFSs errors have caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience. I think Mr B couldve mitigated against some of these losses, as I mentioned 
earlier, so Ive taken that into consideration when deciding what amount of compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the given circumstances. And I think that VWFS should pay Mr B £150 
to fairly reflect the impact their errors had on him. Also, I understand that VWFS has 
removed all adverse information from Mr Bs credit file, but if they have not done so they 
should do so as soon as possible, and from all the credit reference agencies they report the 
information to. I understand that the refinancing for the final payment of the original hire 
purchase agreement may now be settled, but if it is not and/or VWFS are still taking 
payments by DD from the wrong account; then VWFS should contact Mr B as soon as 
possible to amend the DD account details.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services to take the following actions:
1. Pay Mr B £150 compensation;
2. Remove any adverse information recorded, in the period of February 2020 to 
September 2020, on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the hire purchase agreement, and 
any adverse information recorded on his credit file in relation to the refinance 
agreement which was used to refinance the final payment of the original hire 
purchase agreement;
3. If the refinancing for the final payment of the original hire purchase agreement isnt 
settled, and payments are still being taken by DD from the wrong account; then 
contact Mr B as soon as possible to amend the DD account details.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman