DRN-2623082
The complaint
Miss H complains that the car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi), 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
  
What happened
 In February 2019, Miss H agreed to acquire a used car via a hire purchase agreement 
with Audi from a dealership. The car was around two and half years old and had a 
mileage of 35,500. Miss H says it was agreed by the supplying dealership that, before 
the car was collected by her, it would be subject to a valet and also repairs would be 
undertaken to the carpet and chips to the bodywork.
Miss H was sent a video by the dealership saying that the repairs had been carried out 
and she signed the hire purchase agreement which was for four years. But when Miss H 
collected the car, she was disappointed to find it was in a dirty condition as it hadnt been 
valeted properly, the chip on the door was still visible and the carpet repair was poor. Miss 
H says shed also paid for a ceramic coat to be added to the car, but this hadnt been 
done. She complained to the dealership and it was agreed that the car would be taken 
back in for the work to be carried out.
In May 2019, the car was returned to the dealership for a second valet and the bodywork 
repairs. But Miss H says that, when the car was returned to her, the valet was still of poor 
quality as the car was dirty, the chips on the paintwork still hadnt been fixed and there 
were issues with the carpet.
Mrs H experienced some issue with the cars rear lights, and the brake fluid needed 
topping up. Mrs H contacted the dealership and said she remained unhappy at the 
condition of the car. It was agreed that the car would go back to the dealership.
In August 2019, the dealership replaced the carpet in the car, checked the lights and 
brake fluid, and carried out a full vehicle health check. The car was returned to Miss H 
who says, although the carpet issue had been resolved there were now deep scratches 
to the internal plastic trim of both doors, possibly due to the seats being removed from 
the car to fit the carpet. Miss H says the valeting was again done to a poor standard, 
and the ceramic coating had been added but it had been put over the dirty paintwork, 
therefore sealing the dirt in.
In September 2019, the car went for an MOT inspection. Miss H says that, during 
this inspection, it was found that there was damage to the undercarriage. Photos of 
the underside of the car were taken. The car passed its MOT with no advisories.
In October 2019, Miss H made a complaint to the dealership as to the condition of the 
car. She said that the car had still not yet received a proper valet, that the chip on the 
drivers side rear door was still not repaired, that there was a crack on the back arm-
rest, that the ceramic coating hadnt been applied properly, that there were now 
scratches to the inner door frames and impact damage to the undercarriage.
The dealership offered to look at the issues and reimburse Miss H £750, but she 
declined the offer saying she had now lost confidence with the car and wanted to reject 
it. Miss H complained to Audi. However, Audi didnt uphold her complaint as it said it 
had been informed all the outstanding issues with the car had been fixed.
Miss H was unhappy at Audis response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said that, looking at the evidence, she was satisfied that there had been 
an agreement to repair the chip to the door which had not been then carried out, and the 
valeting had been to a poor standard. She said, as the dealership had subsequently failed 
to fix either of these issues when the car had been returned to it, it would be fair for Miss 
H to have these independently carried out and for Audi to pay the invoices.
In respect of the ceramic coating, the investigator said that a job card for the car said this 
had been added to the car before Miss H had first collected it in March 2019. No images 
of the poor application had been provided, and the investigator said it wouldnt be fair to 
assume the dirt under the coating was solely due to the way it had been applied. She said 
this car was around two and half years old at its point of sale to Miss H, with a mileage of 
35,500 and so wear and tear to the body work would reasonably be expected. In light of 
that she didnt think that it would be fair for Audi to be required to reimburse this cost.
Our investigator said that, as the scratches to the door frames had most likely arisen 
from replacing the carpet, she didnt think she could reasonably hold Audi responsible 
for a fault that had arisen after purchase.
In regard to the crack to the arm-rest and the damage to the undercarriage, our 
investigator said these werent reported by Miss H until after six months had passed from 
the inception of the agreement. Miss H had provided a report into the damage found to the 
undercarriage, and the opinion of the engineer who had inspected the car was that it was 
likely to be the result of an impact, but didnt say whether that damage would have been 
likely to have occurred prior to the point of sale of the car to Miss H.
Our investigator said that the damage to the underside of the car had been noted when 
the car had undertaken its MOT, and that was six months after Miss H had acquired the 
car and driven a further 5,000 miles in it. The investigator said there wasnt enough 
evidence to say that the damage had occurred before Miss H took the car, particularly as 
the car had been taken back to the dealership on two previous occasions and it hadnt 
been identified on either of those inspections.
Our investigator also thought that the evidence showed that the crack to the arm-rest 
had happened after Miss H had acquired the car, and so wouldnt be the responsibility 
of Audi.
Our investigator said that Miss H had suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
dealing with getting the cars chipped paint work, poor carpet and dirty condition sorted 
out. She recommended that, in addition to paying for an independent third party to now 
fix the chip and valet the car properly, that Audi should pay Miss H £200 compensation.
Audi agreed with our investigators view, but Miss H disagreed. She was unhappy that 
she the suggested compensation was lower than that originally offered by the 
dealership and disagreed that the ceramic coating had been applied properly. She said 
she thought the investigators conclusions were unfair and wanted to reject the car.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional view along the following lines. 
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss H was a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. Audi was 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about thier quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around two and half years old, and with a mileage of 
35,500. I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
expect that over time there would be issues with maintenance and repair, since 
components of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use, and that 
the bodywork of the car wouldnt be fault free as would be expected of a new car.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) a finance company is 
responsible for a credit brokers actions prior to the agreement starting, that is the pre-
sales negotiations. Here, the dealership acted as the credit broker and so Audi could be 
held liable for actions agreed by the dealership which then formed part of the contract.
Looking at the evidence I didnt think it was disputed that there were some issues with 
the car, which the dealership had agreed to sort out before it was collected by Miss H. 
These were the condition of the carpet and the chip to the rear side of the drivers door. 
It was also agreed that the car would be thoroughly valeted, so that it was in a clean 
conditon for Miss H. In addition Miss H paid for a ceramic coating to be applied to the 
car to protect the paintwork. 
Miss H had supplied a number of photos of the car, which had included the damage that 
was later found to the underside of the car. I understood that Miss H was concerned that 
the damage to the heatshields and undertrays had also impacted on the wheel 
alignment, as the car was now pulling to the side and the tyres had been found to need 
realignment. Miss H was also concerned about the quality of the cars service, as the 
brake fluid needed topping up around three months after shed acquired it, and the 
rear/brake lights had an intermittent problem.  
Miss H wished to now reject the car as she had lost confidence in it. Looking at the 
issues in turn:
Valeting:- I was satisfied that this service was offered by the dealership to Miss H and 
that this hadnt been provided to a satisfactory standard. The photos provided by Miss H 
showed a dirty interior. The dealership also appeared to have accepted this service wasnt what would reasonably have been expected.
Chip to paintwork rear door drivers side: - Miss H had provided a photo of the chip and I 
agreed that, looking at the evidence, there was agreement this would be repaired as there 
were references to cosmetic repairs being carried out to the car . However, to date, no 
such repair had been undertaken.
Carpet:- The carpet had been replaced and no further work was required.
Scratches to the door frames:- Miss H had complained about the scratches after the 
carpet had been replaced. Looking at the photos, I could see that it was necessary to 
remove the seats to fit the carpet, and I thought it was more likely than not they were 
caused by the dealership when undertaking this work. In these circumstances, the 
damage arose from the dealership fulfilling what had been agreed to be undertaken and 
so I thought it was fair for Audi to take the responsibility to resolve this.
However, these scratches were a minor defect, that didnt impair the cars performance or 
safety and as they were at the bottom of the door frames I didnt think particularly 
noticeable. As this was a used car and some wear was expected to its internal body parts 
I thought removing the door frames and replacing with new would be a disproportionate 
repair. So I thought it was fair that Audi paid Miss H some compensation for the distress 
caused by having the car damaged. I thought £100 would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Ceramic coating:- Miss H had disputed this was added when it should have been, and 
had also said that, when it was added, it wasnt done properly, as dirt had been sealed 
in the coating. While I hadnt seen many photos of the paintwork those that had been 
provided appeared to show dirt in the paint. Lookiing at the job cards I could see the 
ceramic coating was added in February 2019, just before Miss H had collected the car. 
Miss H had repeatedly raised the ceramic coating as an issue, first with the dealership 
and then Audi. I accepted her evidence that this coat had not been added satisfactorily.
Damage to the undercarriage:- Miss H said this damage was noted when the car went in 
for its MOT in September 2019, which had been around six months after she had 
acquired the car. She had provided a report dated March 2020, which said that the heat 
shields and undertrays were either damaged or missing, and needed to be replaced. It 
also said that the wheels needed to be re-aligned. Miss H said she was advised this 
damage was likely to be the result of some sort of impact, and that she had found the car 
pulleds to one side.
However, the issue with the car pulling to one side hadnt been raised until Miss H had 
complained to this service. Miss H said she had noticed this earlier, but was unsure 
who to raise the issue with. Miss H felt that the evidence she had presented implied 
the damage to the undercarriage had occurred prior to her acquiring the car. But, Id 
seen that the car went back to the dealership for repairs in both May 2019 and July 
2019, and the MOT had been carried out in September 2019. I thought if the car 
pulling to one side had been of a concern to Miss H then it was reasonable to have 
expected her to have raised it earlier to the dealership.
Id also seen that the car was given a complimentary healthcheck in July 2019, while 
repairs were carried out to the brake/rear lights, and no issue with the wheels or 
undercarriage were reported by the dealership at that time. So. this damage appeared to 
only have been discovered in September 2019, during the MOT. By this time Miss H had 
had the car for around six months and driven an additonal 5,000 miles. As the reports 
provided by Miss H about this damage didnt give an opinion as to when it was likely to have occurred, I didnt think I could reasonably say I was satisfied, on the evidence 
before me, that it was more likely than not that the car had sustained this damage before 
the point of sale to Miss H.
Crack in the arm-rest:- Id seen a photo of the crack, but Id also noted that Miss H hadnt 
raised this as part of her inital complaint to the dealership. It was included in her formal 
complaint made in October 2019 to the dealership. I wasnt clear when this damage was 
found by Miss H. However, as she had inspected the car when it was first delivered and 
after the visits to the dealership for repairs, I didnt think I could reasonably say that it was 
present from the point sale.
So, while I accepted there were faults with the car, namely the carpet and the chip to the 
door, and that the ceramic coat wasnt added satisfactorily, I didnt think it would be 
proportionate for Miss H to now reject the car even though the dealership had had an 
opportunity to resolve these issues and hadnt yet fully done so.
I agreed with the view of the investigator that it would be fair for Miss H to have the chip 
on the door repaired by a third party, and also have the car fully valeted, and for Audi to 
cover the cost of these matters when provided with an invoice by Miss H.
I also thought it would be fair for Audi to reimburse Miss H the cost of the ceramic 
coating together with interest, as she had not had the benefit of that.
Id seen that Miss H had to take the car back to the garage on several occasions, and 
had found the unclean state of the car, and other unresolved issues, distressing and 
stressful. In light of this I am asking Audi to pay her compensation of £250.
For the reasons given above Im intending to partially uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Audi has agreed with my provisional decision. Miss H has raised some issues she would like 
me to look at again. Miss H says that the dealership had accepted it would repair the 
undercarriage and arm rest when she complained about these matters to it. She also feels 
that the compensation should be increased to reflect the issues with the car.
Miss H says that the car came with a years warranty and so regardless of when the faults 
with the car were identified they should have been rectified under this. 
Miss H says that its ureasonable to have expected her to inspect the cars undercarriage 
and so the damage was only noticed when the car was parked on a hill and the underneath 
was more visible. She also says the arm-rest wasnt noticed because the adults sat in the 
front and the back was only used to carry a small child.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully through my provisional decision and the points raised by Miss H but, 
although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to her, I havent changed my mind.
In regard to whether the dealership had previously agreed to repairing the undercarriage and 
arm-rest, while I have seen these were included in Miss Hs formal complaint to the 
dealership in October, I cant say that it had accepted responsibility for fixing all the damage 
she had raised. This is because the response from the dealership was for Miss H to bring 
the car back in to be looked at. I think its possible the dealership would have declined the repairs to the undercarriage and arm-rest since there was no evidence the car had been 
supplied with this damage.
As set out above, Audi is liable for any work or repairs agreed before the sale which then 
formed part of the contract. As the undercarriage and arm-rest werent raised until several 
months later, these repairs cant be considered as part of the pre-sales negotiations. Audi 
would therefore only be responsible if the damage to the undercarriage and arm-rest had 
been present or developing at the point of sale. For the reasons given, I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence for me to reasonable make that finding. Miss H had had the car in her 
possession for some months before this damage was discovered and so the damage was 
likely to have occurred while she was using the car. 
I dont think I can reasonably say, on the evidence that I have seen, that its more likely than 
not this damage was present from the point of sale. I appreciate Miss H wouldnt have 
inspected the undercarriage, but I have to take into account the car had been checked over 
at the dealership and this damage wasnt noted then. So, Im not going to ask Audi to cover 
the cost of these repairs.
Miss H has raised the warranty and although I havent seen what the warranty covered, I 
think it would be very unlikely to cover accidental damage or issues of wear and tear. 
Warranties usually only cover manufacturing faults which means neither the damage to the 
undercarriage or to the armrest would be covered unless they were shown to be an inherent 
fault with car which isnt the case here.
Looking at the award of compensation, I am satisfied that £250 for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to Miss H in dealing with issues that were present from the point 
of sale is fair and reasonable. 
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Audi to do the following:
Cover the cost of a third party repairing the chip on the drivers side rear door, 
once an invoice has been provided by Miss H.
Cover the cost of a third party carrying out an interior and exterior valet to 
the car, once an invoice for that service has been provided by Miss H.
Pay Miss H £100 compensation for the damage to the door frames.
Reimburse Miss H the cost of the ceramic coating together with interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss H £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faults with the car. 
My final decision
As set out above, Im partially upholding Miss Hsc omplaint. Im asking Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to 
do the following:
Cover the cost of a third party repairing the chip on the drivers side rear door, once an invoice has been provided by Miss H.
Cover the cost of a third party carrying out an interior and exterior valet to 
the car, once an invoice for that service has been provided by Miss H.
Pay Miss H £100 compensation for the damage to the door frames.
Reimburse Miss H the cost of the ceramic coating together with interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss H £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faults with the car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman