DRN-3347536
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance are 
charging him a shortfall after terminating a conditional sale agreement he had with them. 
What happened
In October 2016 Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. He paid a deposit of £500, part exchanged his car for £809; and the 
agreement was for £12,040 over 60 months, with monthly payments of £258.08. 
Mr H missed eight payments on the agreement and, due to the arrears, Close Brothers 
issued a Notice of Default on 16 November 2020. As Mr H didnt respond to this, Close 
Brothers terminated the agreement on 23 November 2020.
Mr H contacted Close Brothers on 26 November 2020, and they agreed that he could still 
voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. But Mr H didnt do this, and Close Brothers 
recovered the car. The car was sold at auction and Close Brothers invoiced Mr H for the 
difference between the sale price and the amount outstanding on the agreement.
Mr H complained to Close Brothers about these charges. But Close Brothers said they were 
entitled to charge these as Mr H hadnt VTd the agreement. Mr H wasnt happy with this, 
and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, when Mr H called Close Brothers on 26 November 2020, they told 
him that he would need to confirm in writing that he wanted to VT. And it was also clear from 
the follow up email Close Brothers sent him that he needed to confirm the VT in writing. But 
he didnt do this. And, as a result, the VT didnt happen.
Because of this, the investigator said that Close Brothers had acted reasonably by 
recovering the car through the Voluntary Surrender (VS) process instead, and this meant 
that Mr H was liable for any shortfall on the agreement after the car had been sold.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he wouldve made an alternative 
decision had he been made aware of the change of terms within the [VT]. Mr H provided 
copies of correspondence hed received from Close Brothers and their solicitors, which he 
says confirmed the agreement was VTd. And, because he says the car was surrendered 
through a VT, he doesnt believe hes liable for any shortfall.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for this matter to be passed to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Before I address the complaint itself, I think it would be useful for me to explain the 
difference between VT and VS. With VT, if half of the amount owing under the agreement 
(plus any outstanding arrears) have been paid, a vehicle can be returned with nothing 
additional to pay (although charges for damage that falls outside of normal wear and tear 
can still be applied). However, with VS, when the vehicle is sold, the difference between the 
amount outstanding under the agreement and the sale proceeds are still outstanding. And 
the finance provider is entitled to pursue the customer for this shortfall.
Its not disputed that, even though Mr H was in arrears, and the agreement had been 
terminated by Close Brothers, Mr H was given the option to VT.
Under the heading TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS the agreement that Mr H electronically 
signed on 29 October 2016 says You have a right to end this agreement. To go so you 
should write to the person you make payments to. They will be entitled to the return of the 
goods and half the total amount payable under this agreement.
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Close Brothers, that took place on 26 November 
2020. In this call, Close Brothers agreed that Mr H would be able to VT the agreement. And 
they told him we will also need your confirmation in writing that youre looking to [VT]. The 
[collection] agents can bring a form with them for you to physically sign or I can accept an 
email from you. Mr H asked for Close Brothers to confirm the VT in an email and said that, 
once hed received this, Ill reply to any requirements that you need. Close Brothers also 
told Mr H that hed need to have his private registration removed from the car, and the V5 
document updated by the DVLA, before they could arrange collection.
Mr H has provided a copy of the email he received from Close Brothers, following this 
conversation. This email, dated 26 November 2020, says:
as per our discussion this afternoon, I can confirm that if you hand the vehicle back 
under a [VT] the providing the vehicle is in full working order and there is no damage 
outside of fair wear and tear you will not be liable to pay us anything further.
Once we have collected the vehicle it will be sold through auction for the best 
possible price. Once the funds are applied via the Auction House we will close your 
agreement and reflect as settled.
In order to hand the vehicle back please reply to this email confirming you wish to do 
so.Given the above, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr H, both at the outset of the agreement 
and when he spoke to Close Brothers on 26 November 2020, that he would need to confirm 
his request to VT in writing. And, when Close Brothers told Mr H that he could either email 
them to confirm he wanted to VT, or sign a form with the collection agent, he replied that he 
would reply to any requirements that were needed. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Close Brothers to assume Mr H would confirm his request to VT by email. Which is what 
their email asked him to do.
However, I havent seen anything to show me that Mr H either told Close Brothers in writing 
that he wanted to VT or told them that the number plate transfer had been completed. And 
Ive seen that Close Brothers unsuccessfully attempted to contact Mr H about this in early 
December 2020. As such, I think they acted reasonably when, on 14 December 2020, they 
started proceedings to recover the car. Which included instructing solicitors.
Mr H has provided an undated extract of correspondence he received from the solicitors. 
Based on Close Brothers system notes, I think this was likely sent to him in February 2021. 
The correspondence from the solicitors says our client has confirmed they are happy for 
you to [VS] the vehicle if this is what you still wish to do. Please see form attached for you to 
complete and return within 14 days. Please note if we do not receive this form back, we will 
need to seek our clients further instructions, which may involve issuing court proceedings.
It's clear from this correspondence that Close Brothers were no longer allowing Mr H to VT 
the agreement, but were treating the matter as a VS. And, when the car was recovered and 
sold at auction, they asked Mr H to pay the shortfall. Which is in line with the VS process. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that acted reasonably by offered Mr H the option to VT. But, 
when he didnt confirm that he wanted to do this, they dealt with the matter as a VS. So, I 
wont be asking Close Brothers to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Close Brothers Limited 
trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman