DRN-4345308
The complaint
Mr G complains about a conditional sale agreement which he took out with Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited, to get a used car.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr G took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, to get a 
used car. At the time of the sale, the car was eight years old and had travelled around 
80,000 miles. 
Over the next few years, Mr G consistently made the repayments due under the agreement. 
But, in late 2020 Mr G needed help from Moneybarn and they allowed him several 
repayment holidays, to help with his financial circumstances. 
Around the same time, the car was involved in an accident and his insurer deemed it beyond 
economical repair. Mr G received a payment from his insurer, which he used towards the 
balance he owed to Moneybarn. However, despite reducing the outstanding balance, the 
lump sum repayment didnt cover the amount he owed. So, Moneybarn held Mr G 
responsible for the remaining amount. 
Mr G entered into a repayment plan with Moneybarn, to gradually pay off the balance owed 
under the agreement. But, in January 2022, Mr G complained to Moneybarn and said they 
should not have lent funds to him in 2017, as he was in financial difficulties when he entered 
into the conditional sale agreement. He said Moneybarn didnt carry out enough checks to 
make sure he could meet all of his commitments. 
Moneybarn replied to Mr Gs complaint and said they had checked his payslips and 
borrowing history in 2017. They said they did this to verify Mr Gs income and to see if he 
had missed any payments on other borrowing previously. 
Additionally, Moneybarn said they considered Mr Gs expenditure and found that he had 
enough disposable income to afford the monthly repayments. Mr G didnt accept 
Moneybarns response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs case and found that Moneybarn had treated him 
fairly. She said Moneybarn had considered Mr Gs income and what he was able to afford. 
The investigator concluded that Mr Gs borrowing history didnt show any missed payments 
in 2017, so it was fair that they entered into the conditional sale agreement with him. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said Moneybarn should have seen that his current account was 
continually at its overdraft limit and that he was using payday loans to pay for everyday living 
costs. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and now Mr Gs complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mr G and Moneybarn my provisional decision on this case, on 3 August 2023. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
This case is about a conditional sale agreement in Mr Gs name taken out with Moneybarn, 
which is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The affordability of the agreement 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Gs complaint. Having carefully thought about 
everything, I think the key questions to ask here are: 
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr G would be able to make repayments due under the agreement in a sustainable way? 
If so, did they make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so? 
Moneybarn provided this agreement under the authorisation and regulation of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Moneybarn to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments 
under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so Moneybarn had to think about 
whether making repayments sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences 
for Mr G. 
In practice this meant that Moneybarn had to ensure that making the payments under the 
agreement wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for Moneybarn to simply think about the likelihood of getting their money 
back, they had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application for the 
agreement. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough when: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayment amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for 
an extended period). There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a conditional sale agreement application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. So, Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case. 
The checks carried out by Moneybarn 
The conditional sale agreement provided to Mr G meant he was required to make monthly 
payments of £162.02 over five years. Including interest, Mr G agreed to pay a total of 
£9,665.08 to Moneybarn. 
Before they agreed to lend funds to Mr G, Moneybarn say they looked at his payslips for the 
two months prior to starting the agreement, to support what Mr G had told them about his 
employment status. Moneybarn also say they performed a credit reference agency check 
and were satisfied with Mr Gs borrowing history. Additionally, Moneybarn have told us that 
they found the proposed repayments acceptable, when comparing it to Mr Gs monthly 
income and his likely expenditure. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs current account statements from July to December 2017. Having done 
so, I can see that Moneybarn used the correct monthly income amount, when they gathered 
information from Mr G. 
Ive also looked at Mr G credit report, to consider what details Moneybarn would have 
discovered about Mr Gs borrowing history. Moneybarn say they didnt find any missed 
payments or county court judgements and were satisfied that Mr G had a strong ability to 
meet his credit commitments. 
However, I can see that Mr Gs credit report from November 2017, shows that he had at 
least 15 existing creditors, some of whom were short term, or payday lenders. I can also 
see that on four occasions in 2017, a payment was missed to one of Mr Gs creditors. 
Furthermore, the combined monthly repayment to the lenders showing on the credit file is 
around £900, which was nearly half of Mr Gs monthly income. And I cannot see that Mr G 
was paying a mortgage at the time. So, the monthly payment amounts showing on the credit 
file do not include one of Mr Gs most significant, regular outgoings. 
Overall, I dont think Mr Gs borrowing history from November 2017 and the monthly amount 
he needed to pay to his creditors compared to his income, showed a strong ability for him to 
meet his credit commitments. Having thought about the checks carried out by Moneybarn, I 
dont think they were proportional when looking at the size and term of the loan and from the 
information Moneybarn had received about Mr Gs credit report. 
So, I think the information on Mr Gs credit report ought to have prompted Moneybarn to 
seek further details from Mr G, before going ahead with the conditional sale agreement. I 
think the most helpful details to have looked at, would have been Mr Gs monthly 
expenditure. 
In light of my conclusions here, Ive gone on to think about Mr Gs financial circumstances in 
November 2017, to consider what further checks would have led Moneybarn to discover. 
Mr Gs financial circumstances in November 2017 
Mr G has provided us with statements from his current account, covering a period from July 
to December 2017. Having looked at the bank statements, I can see that Mr G made 
monthly payments to his creditors, equal to the monthly financial commitment listed on his credit report. I can also see that Mr G relied on additional payments coming into his account 
from various payday lenders. 
The statements also show where Mr G made payments of £400 for rent and regularly 
withdrew cash. Mr G says the cash withdrawals were to pay for utilities on a pre-payment 
basis. Additionally, Mr G has told us that he lived with his two children in 2017, so had 
dependents to support. 
Aside from Mr Gs regular expenditure, I can see from the bank account statements where 
the account was near to, or exceeded its overdraft limit frequently on the months leading up 
to the application with Moneybarn. Because of this, Mr Gs current account regularly incurred 
fees and debit interest. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I think further checks on Mr Gs expenditure in November 
2017, would have shown that he was experiencing very difficult financial circumstances. I 
say this after considering the repayments he was required to make to his existing creditors, 
his living costs and his income at the time. 
Im aware that Mr G maintained payments for a significant period of time to the agreement 
with Moneybarn. But, from looking at what has happened since November 2017, I can see 
this came as a detriment to some of the other borrowing Mr G had. I must also keep in mind 
that Mr G is likely to have maintained the repayments towards the agreement as a priority, to 
ensure he had continued use of a car. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy themselves that Mr G would be able to make repayments due under the 
agreement in a sustainable way. On balance, I think Mr Gs bank statements show that any 
additional credit commitments may have caused Mr G undue difficulty and adverse 
consequences. 
It then follows that I think Moneybarn were is a position to see that the repayments towards 
the conditional sale agreement would have had caused more strain on Mr Gs already 
difficult financial position. I think reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Moneybarn to the fact that they shouldnt have provided the conditional sale 
agreement to Mr G. 
So, I dont think Moneybarn treated Mr G fairly. This means I need to consider what 
Moneybarn should now do to put things right. 
The settlement to this complaint 
The car at the centre of Mr Gs complaint was deemed as not being economical to repair, 
after it was involved in an accident. The value given to Mr G by the insurer for the car, has 
been used to reduce the outstanding balance owed to Moneybarn. 
Ive found that Moneybarn didnt treat Mr G fairly when they agreed lend to him. So, I think 
its fair for Moneybarn to refund all the charges and interest theyve applied to the conditional 
sale agreement since it started. 
This refund and adjustment may create a credit balance, which should be paid to Mr G. If 
that happens, I think its fair that Moneybarn adds interest at 8% per year simple, to any 
overpayments made by Mr G. I say this because Mr G hasnt been able to make use of 
those funds. 
Ive seen that Mr G entered into a repayment plan with Moneybarn and this information has been passed to credit reference agencies. In light of my conclusions, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Moneybarn to remove all the information about it. 
But, I dont think its fair for Mr G to suffer any negative impact as a result of missing or not 
be able to make the full repayments due under the agreement. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Moneybarn to remove any adverse information thats been recorded with 
credit reference agencies. 
Ive also considered how Moneybarn treated Mr G when he told them about his further 
financial difficulties in 2020. I can see that Moneybarn put several repayment holidays into 
place and came to a repayment plan with Mr G in April 20221. So, I think Moneybarn have 
treated Mr G fairly, when he has asked them for help. 
However, Moneybarn still has an ongoing responsibility to Mr G, to treat his financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. And I remind them of this if Mr G still 
requires help to repay any remaining balance, after this settlement has been put into place.
Mr G responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. Moneybarn responded to the 
provisional decision and along with their calculations of the settlement, in summary, they 
said:
Mr G should pay for the usage of the car he got under the conditional sale 
agreement; and
they should retain 39 monthly repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within my findings, I concluded that its fair for Moneybarn to refund all the interest and fees 
applied to the balance of the conditional loan agreement. I also think its fair for Mr G to pay 
for the usage hes had from the car. In other words I think its fair for Mr G to pay for the cash 
price of the car only.
Mr G has made monthly repayments towards the car, along with a larger ad-hoc payment in 
July 2019 and the funds he received from his insurer. So, any further refunds made towards 
the account, may mean the conditional sale agreement enters into a credit balance.
Having thought carefully about what Moneybarn has said, I think its for them to now put that 
settlement into place with Mr G.
In all the circumstances, I still think its fair that along with the refund of charges and interest, 
Moneybarn adds interest at a rate of 8% a year simple, to any overpayment which may be 
due to Mr G. I also still think its fair that Moneybarn removes any adverse information from 
the details held about the agreement with credit reference agencies.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
1. refund all interest and fees applied to the balance of the conditional sale agreement 
from the inception of the agreement, to the date of settlement of this complaint; 2. add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to any credit balance created after part one 
of this settlement has been carried out, calculated from when the credit balance 
would have been created, to the date of settlement of this complaint; 
3. after the adjustments, pay any credit balance created by the refund to Mr G; and 
4. remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies about the 
conditional sale agreement in Mr Gs name. 
Moneybarn must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Moneybarn deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr G, they should provide Mr G with 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman