DRN-2467623
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the settlement amount offered by Gefion Insurance A/S for his written 
off car. Mr S is also unhappy about the claim handling and said that the car has been 
devalued by the write off category applied to it. This is a motor trade policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim after his vehicle was damaged. Mr S wasnt happy with the amount 
offered in settlement and said he couldnt replace the car based on the offer. He was 
unhappy with Gefion marking the vehicle as Category N for write off purposes and said he 
shouldve been informed before this was done. Mr S was further upset by the salvage 
deduction made when he decided to take it back, repair it, and keep the car. Finally, Mr S 
was upset that it took so long to re-register the car back on the Motor Insurance Database. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy cover allowed Gefion to pay 
the trade valuation for the car. She accepted that based on the policy the trade valuations 
were the fairest way for Gefion to calculate the valuation. After checking the guides our 
investigator said the trade values ranged between £2,550 and £3,200. As Gefion offered 
£3,200 before deductions she said Gefion had acted reasonably. The policy is also subject 
to a £500 policy excess. There was also a brief dispute over an additional £500 excess 
being charged if a claim wasnt notified within the first 48 hours of the policy. But after 
discussion between the parties Gefion agreed not to impose this policy requirement.   
Our investigator said the engineers report showed the repair cost was over the required 
percentage of the cars market value to allow the car to be written off.  So, she said Gefion 
hadnt done anything wrong when it wrote the car off based on these costs. She also said 
these decisions were for the insurer to make and it didnt need to inform Mr S before doing 
so. In terms of the salvage costs our investigator said Gefion deducted the amount it 
wouldve received from a salvage agent and so this was fair. She said it was fair for Gefion 
to ask for a new MOT and said it did ask for this prior to removing the car from the policy. 
She concluded it was reasonable to need the MOT to prove the car was roadworthy again 
before adding it back on to the policy and the database.
Mr S didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Car write off and valuation
Mr S provided adverts that he said showed retail replacement costs for similar cars were at 
higher prices.
In its final response to Mr S Gefion quoted from the policy wording:
The most we will pay under this section is-
1. the trade value of the insured vehicle immediately before the loss,
2. the purchase price of the insured vehicle,
3. the insured vehicle indemnity limit specified in the policy schedule; or
4. recorded in the schedule of vehicles.
whichever is the lowest amount.
Gefion also said A valuation has been obtained from a qualified motor engineer and takes 
into consideration the pre-trade value of your vehicle along with any necessary adjustments 
for mileage and condition. Under the terms of your motor trade policy, you are only entitled 
to the trade value.
I think the policy details are clear. The details above confirm the approach Gefion can take to 
value cars under this policy. Having reviewed the usual motor valuation guides the offer of 
£3,200 is line with those guides. Although I understand Mr S wishes to have settlement 
based on the retail prices hes seen I accept Gefion can settle the claim on trade value. So, I 
think Gefion made a reasonable offer for the car in line with the policy wording.
Although Mr S was unhappy with Gefion writing off the car without asking him, I agree with 
our investigator. Gefion produced evidence of the specialist engineers report showing how 
much a repair would cost compared to the car value. Based on these figures it showed the 
cost percentages were in line with the usual market approach to write off the car. So, I think 
Gefion acted reasonably when it chose to write off the car, I dont think it needed to speak to 
Mr S about this in advance.
Cost of salvage
Gefion did send in details of the calculations of how it reached a salvage amount of 
£1,372.80. I accept that Mr S disputes it would be possible to get this amount for the 
salvage, but this is about what Gefion would get for the car from its salvage agents. Under 
the policy Gefion has the right to price the salvage at the rate it would get if it was selling it. 
So, I think Gefion acted reasonably on this point.  
Getting the car back on the road
I can understand Mr S frustration once hed had the car repaired. But I can also understand 
why insurers remove cars from policies and notify the database when a car has been written 
off. Asking for MOT evidence to show the vehicle is again roadworthy is reasonable and I 
think it was fair for Gefion to require this detail before putting the car back on the policy and 
the Motor Insurance Database. 
Ongoing valuation
I might not be picking up the point correctly from what Mr S has said but it seems as though 
he feels the value of the car is now limited to a valuation of £1,372. Im not sure that is the 
case. I dont think Gefion is seeking to insist that is the maximum value of the car in the 
future. I think in the future the car will be worth whatever the market is willing to pay for it 
based on the car being previously written off. I dont think Gefion has placed any specific 
requirements on the car regarding its value. 
Finally, Mr S has suggested that he may wish to take court proceedings against Gefion. I 
can confirm that Mr S can choose not to accept my decision and take such action against 
Gefion if he now wishes to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Gefion Insurance A/S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman