DRN-1640417
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the delays and poor service he experienced when making a claim 
under his Appliance Cover with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG).
What happened
Mr L had HomeCare with Kitchen Appliance Cover with BG. His microwave oven (oven) 
broke and BG attended to carry out a repair. The part needed was obsolete, so BG advised 
Mr L to buy a new oven. Under his policy, BG would contribute 30% towards the 
replacement of an appliance more than three years old.
Mr L bought the oven, but at first, BG only contributed 30% of the cost of a different, less 
expensive model. Mr L complained and BG said there had been some confusion  the oven 
shouldve been sourced through its approved supplier. In recognition of the 
misunderstanding, it increased its payment to 30% of the cost of the oven Mr L had already 
bought.
Although BG had settled the claim, Mr L remained unhappy with the way it had handled 
matters. He described delays, missed appointments, failure to return calls, chasing contact, 
and a general dissatisfaction with BGs service. BG investigated and accepted its shortfalls. 
It made a payment of £50 to Mr L as a gesture of goodwill. Mr L didnt think it was enough to 
address the poor service hed experienced.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought that BG should pay a further £100 in 
recognition of the delays and overall time taken to settle the claim. In addition, he thought 
that BG should cover the cost of Mr Ls phone calls, upon proof of payment, which amounted 
to over 60 calls. 
BG didnt agree. BG explained that the settlement of 30% was already above and beyond 
what Mr L was entitled to, so that, along with the £50 offered, was enough.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mr L was unhappy with the way BG handled his claim for his broken oven. While the claim 
itself was settled and is not disputed, I think its important to mention it briefly because it 
helps to explain why Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
BG said it would contribute 30% of the cost of a new oven to replace his broken one. Mr L 
bought a new oven because he says BG told him to source one. BG says that wasnt in line 
with the normal process but, after initially offering a lower amount, BG honoured the 30% 
contribution. 
The terms of the policy state: 
Kitchen Appliance
Whats covered
All repairs to the kitchen appliance(s) shown on your statement
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less 
to replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier 
and make the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
100% if your appliance is less than three years old
30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model of your choice from our approved 
supplier. There is no cash alternative
I think the terms here are quite clear  BG would source the replacement. So, whether it was 
because of a misunderstanding or whether Mr L was, in fact, given incorrect advice, BG has 
contributed 30% of the full retail price despite Mr L not following the process set out in his 
policy. However, I can see that he didnt tell BG hed bought the oven until hed had 
numerous conversations with it and eight weeks had passed since he first reported the 
matter. Some of that time was taken up waiting for engineer appointments and for parts to 
arrive, but I think that Mr L had waited a reasonable amount of time before he went and 
bought the oven himself. At that stage, I dont think its unreasonable for him to have thought 
that it was for him to buy rather than waiting for BG to provide.  So, considering the time 
taken, I think it was fair that BG contributed 30% to the replacement oven Mr L sourced 
himself.
Moving on to the matter of how BG handled the claim, both parties are aware of the issues, 
so I dont think theres any benefit in discussing them here at length. BG thinks that its 
increased contribution to the cost of the oven, in addition to the £50 it already paid, is 
enough to address the shortfalls in service, which can be summarised as:
confusion about whether a repair could be done
time taken to settle the claim
around 60 phone calls
repeating the claim to each new handler on those calls
no nominated case handler
Mr L repeatedly chasing updates
poor response time on phone calls
long time waiting on hold
not returning calls
delayed correspondence
While some of the issues relate to business process, given the numerous delays, calls, and 
confusion, I think its evident that what shouldve been a relatively straightforward matter has 
become drawn out. It was almost four months until BG finally settled the claim and I dont 
think thats a reasonable timescale for replacing a microwave oven.  Considering this, I think 
its fair for BG to pay Mr L a further £100 for the upset, inconvenience and frustration caused 
by delays and misunderstandings about the process.
Also, given that Mr L repeatedly made calls to BG, I think its fair for BG to repay the costs 
upon receipt of evidence from Mr L of the directly related call charges.Finally, Mr L also complained about BGs delays in handling his complaint. I understand he 
is aware that I will not be addressing that matter. My role is to look into his complaint about 
regulated matters  in this case his claim and any associated service in handling the claim. 
Complaint handling is not a regulated service and, therefore, outside my remit.
In summary, Im satisfied that BG settled the claim for the replacement microwave oven, but, 
because of its service shortfalls, I consider a further payment of £100 is warranted. And, 
upon receipt of proof from Mr L of the direct costs he incurred when making numerous calls 
during the claim process, I think its fair for BG to reimburse those costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr L a further £100 by way of apology for the service shortfalls and delays in 
processing his claim, and
upon receipt of evidence, repay Mr L for the cost of direct calls made to BG about 
this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman