DRN-2232460
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt include her 
account in a remediation project under which some customers had interest and charges 
refunded.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs A became aware that Barclaycard were carrying out a review of some 
customers accounts with a view to refunding interest and charges. Mrs A thinks that her 
account should have been included in the review. But she says that Barclaycard didnt 
include it and havent explained why not. She contacted Barclaycard several times to ask if 
her account was being included, but she wasnt happy with their response, so she asked this 
service to look into it.
Barclaycard say that, in the period from October 2013 to December 2017 (the Review 
Period), they didnt always meet their expected standards when dealing with customers who 
were in financial difficulty. They reviewed the accounts of customers who had contacted 
them about financial difficulty during the Review Period, whose accounts had later been 
given a charged off or written off status. For customers in this category whose accounts 
had been affected, Barclaycard decided to refund the interest and charges which they had 
applied during the Review Period.
Barclaycard say that no refund is due to Mrs A under this remediation project because no 
interest or charges were applied to her account during the Review Period. They say shed 
contacted them before the Review Period and theyd already stopped all interest and 
charges on her account from June 2013.
Our investigator didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything here. But Mrs A remains 
unhappy about the situation and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons.
Barclaycard say that any account which was part of the review and which had interest and/or 
charges applied during the Review Period may have been eligible for a refund of that interest 
and charges. In such cases, they say a letter was sent to the account holder.
Barclaycard say that they did review Mrs As account. But, because she hadnt been 
charged any interest or fees during the Review Period, she wasnt eligible for a refund and 
thats why they didnt write to her. 
Ive seen Mrs As Barclaycard statements for the relevant period. Im satisfied that she 
wasnt charged any fees or interest during the Review Period. So her account wasnt one of 
those where any refund needed to be made  there was nothing to refund.
Mrs A was keen to find out whether she was due a refund, so she contacted Barclaycard on 
numerous occasions to find out whether her account was included in the review. I realise 
that Mrs A is unhappy about the responses she received from Barclaycard. But I dont think 
Barclaycard did anything wrong here. They consistently told her that they would contact her 
if her account was one of those affected. They didnt contact her because it wasnt - she 
didnt fall within the group of customers who needed to be refunded.
For these reasons, I dont think Barclaycard have done anything wrong here, so Im not 
going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman