DRN-3395004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt downgrade their account to 
a Silver account when TSB accepted in 2017 that a fee-paying Gold account had been mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs K would like a refund of the difference between what they were charged and 
what they wouldve been charged had their account been downgraded in 2017.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong. And so they didnt think that a refund of the account fees was warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K say that as TSB accepted that they should not have been sold the Gold 
account, TSB shouldve downgraded their account when TSB responded to their complaint 
in 2017.
Ive looked at the letter that TSB sent to Mr and Mrs K and I note that when setting out the 
redress that will be paid to Mr and Mrs K, it says:
£3.00 additional month fee to give you sufficient time to change to a fee free
Account
The letter also went on to say:
As your account has not yet been changed to our fee free Classic account, if you 
wish to do this, please visit your local branch or contact us on 03459 758 758. Please 
also note that details of all our accounts can be found at www.tsb.co.uk.
I understand that Mr and Mrs K (incorrectly) assumed their account would be changed to a 
Silver account, because TSB had accepted that the Gold account was not the most 
appropriate account for Mr and Mrs K when it was originally sold to them. However, whilst I 
understand why they made such an assumption, I cant say that it was a reasonable one in 
the circumstances, given that the letter said that the account had not been changed and 
explained that Mr and Mrs K would need to go to a local branch or to call a specific number 
to change their account. I note that TSB even paid Mr and Mrs K £3 extra, to cover some of 
the account fee, to give them a time to choose what account they wanted to change to.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs K were sent bank statements every quarter, which in a large 
font at the top said: Gold Account. They were also sent annual eligibility statements each 
year since 2017, which again at the top in large font said: Your Gold Account Insurance 
Explained. So I think TSB made it reasonably clear (without Mr and Mrs K having to read 
through small print) that Mr and Mrs Ks account was still a Gold account. 
Mr and Mrs K have questioned why the Gold account was not automatically changed by 
TSB, when it had accepted that the Gold account should not have been sold in the first 
place. However, had TSB changed the account to a Silver account without Mr and Mrs K 
actually asking for this, this couldve given rise to a further complaint  for example if Mr and 
Mrs K didnt want the Silver account in September 2017. Also, by changing the account 
without Mr and Mrs K going through the usual account change processes, there is a risk they 
may not have been made aware of the costs and features of the new account or indeed what 
features they would be losing by changing their existing account  which again could 
potentially give rise to a further complaint. 
As such, I dont think it is unreasonable that TSB invited Mr and Mrs K to change the 
account themselves - providing TSB made it clear that they were required to do something 
and that it was explained how they could do so. And in this case, I think that TSB did set out 
to Mr and Mrs K in the final response letter, that it was up to them to decide if they wanted to 
change their Gold account, and explained how to go about doing so. 
Overall, Im unable to say that TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably because it didnt 
automatically change Mr and Mrs Ks Gold account in September 2017. On the contrary, it 
seems the only reason why the account remained as a Gold account was unfortunately 
because Mr and Mrs K made an incorrect assumption that it would be changed for them  
despite the letter and further correspondence stating otherwise. It therefore follows, that I 
dont think TSB is required to refund the account fees that Mr and Mrs K paid for their Gold 
account since September 2017.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman