DRN-3467041
The complaint
Mrs C complains that ReAssure Limited cant locate an investment she says she took out 
with them in 2011.
Mrs C is using family representatives to bring the complaint, but for ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs C. 
What happened
Mrs C recalls taking out an investment with ReAssure in 2011 but couldnt find any 
paperwork about it so asked them to search their records. ReAssure did this but couldnt find 
a record of any investment in her name. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs C brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. Whilst acknowledging Mrs Cs frustration they 
were satisfied with the searches done by ReAssure to try and locate any investment. 
Mrs C didnt agree with this saying she wasnt happy with the level of searches that had 
been done, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs C that Ive read and considered everything that has been provided. This 
includes what she has said about what happened in 2011 and also her concerns about what 
possibly might have happened to the investment over the years. Its also clear to me how 
strongly Mrs C feels about the situation.
Mrs C hasnt been able to provide ReAssure with any paperwork about the investment nor 
an account or customer reference number except for a generic product brochure from the 
time which has some of her handwritten notes. 
This lack of information means that ReAssure have searched their systems using 
information about Mrs C including her name, date of birth, address, and national insurance 
number. 
ReAssure have searched both their current and archived systems but have been unable to 
find any record of Mrs C nor an investment in her name. ReAssure also contacted a 
business who administered some investments for them around 2011 and asked them to 
search, however nothing was found there either. 
Having looked at everything done by ReAssure, and the evidence of the searches provided, 
Im satisfied theyve acted fairly and reasonably when searching their systems to locate any 
investment for Mrs C. 
Mrs C feels that theres some possible deliberate action on behalf of ReAssure not to search 
more thoroughly. I can see why Mrs C might think this due to a theory about where the 
money might have gone, however Ive seen no evidence this is the case.
My role is to look at the checks done by ReAssure to trace any account for Mrs C. And 
having done so Im satisfied they have done all the checks they can in the absence of any 
account or customer reference number. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman