DRN-2640483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage, during a meeting in March 2003.
The policy was a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), with a PPI element called
Mortgage Repayment Cover. A TMPP can include life and critical illness cover, but Ive only
looked into the sale of PPI in this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F paid a monthly amount of £26.14 for the policy. This covered them for £215.61
each, so if either one of them was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant  they
would receive their share of the policy benefit for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2021 and explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I provided some further clarification and gave 
Mr and Mrs F and Halifax an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the policy was optional. And it had to get
their consent before it added PPI to their account. Halifax says it would have done this. But
Mr and Mrs F say there was no mention of PPI and they would not have asked for it.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs F have said isnt enough on its own for me to be
able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used around the time
Mr and Mrs Fs policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an
option to take out PPI and the mortgage agreement often highlighted that it wasnt necessary
to take any insurance from Halifax. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F
were aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the
time.
Mr and Mrs F say Halifax didnt give them any advice, but Halifax says it would have. Giving
advice puts more responsibility on Halifax  it means as well as giving them enough
information about the policy, it also had to check it was suitable for them. So, in fairness to
Mr and Mrs F, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given. Having done so,
the policy appears to have been suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs F were both eligible for the policy and they dont seem to have been affected by
any of the terms which might have made it harder for them to claim, such as having unusual
employment circumstances.
Mr F told us he had a pre-existing medical condition. Our adjudicator considered this, but
they didnt think Mr Fs condition made a difference to the outcome of this complaint and I
agree. I say this because, the terms of the policy show that pre-existing medical conditions
would not be excluded if the policy was taken at the same time as the mortgage  as was
the case for Mr and Mrs F. So, I dont think this means that Halifax was wrong to recommend
the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F say they were both entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half
pay if they were off sick from work. They say they didnt have any other ways to make their
repayments, but their family could have helped if necessary.
Ive thought about this carefully, and I dont think this would have meant that policy wasnt
right for them. The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Fs sick pay and
potentially for a much longer period. Mr and Mrs F could also have made repeat claims
subject to a requalification period. And while their family may have wanted to help,
circumstances could change, which means help from family could not always be relied on.
So, I think Mr and Mrs F could have found the policy useful if they fell on hard times.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F at the time it
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs F all of the other information they needed  I dont
know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs F chose to take out the
cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Fs home.
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs F and I dont think they lost out
because of anything Halifax did wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F and Halifax have not responded to my provisional decision. 
As Ive not received any new evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. That means I dont think Mr and 
Mrs Fs PPI policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman