DRN-3672875
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund him the money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
Both sides have submitted significant volumes of evidence. In what follows I have focussed 
on what I consider most relevant to the outcome and, wherever possible, what follows is 
heavily summarised to aid readability. But I can reassure both sides that I have considered 
everything that has been made available to me.
What happened
Mr M says that in mid-2020 he believed his health was deteriorating. He sought to invest his 
money with the aim of leaving an enhanced inheritance for the beneficiaries of his will.
He searched online for suitable investments. Mr M says he found one that appeared 
suitable, a firm called Nava Gates. Unknown to Mr M at the time, this firm was already the 
subject of an FCA warning, posted on 20 May 2020.
Mr M doesnt recall the exact returns that were promised by Nava Gates, but other victims of 
the same scam say they were told they could expect returns of up to double their investment 
within a month. He was told his money would be safe and could be withdrawn on demand. 
Having made some initial payments Mr M saw what appeared to be good returns, and this 
encouraged him to invest more. Later when he attempted to withdraw money, he was told he 
needed to pay charges before that would be possible.
The payments made by Mr M
In total, a large number of transactions were made in connection with this scam. 
Undoubtably due to the volume, different transactions have been incorporated in each 
partys calculations, with correspondingly differing totals.
In order to provide clarity about the payments and credits that I am considering in this 
decision, I have listed these in the table below. 
In collating this table, I have taken account of the information provided by both sides, and 
cross-referenced these records against the messages, emails and handwritten notes Mr M 
has retained from the time. I have referred to the various businesses that received Mr Ms 
payments as A, B, C, and D. All four are cryptocurrency exchanges. All the payments apart 
from the first few went to either B or C.
For ease of exposition I have omitted any payments already refunded by NatWest, and 
omitted credits received from Mr Ms friends and family, as well as other transfers he made 
into his Natwest account.
Date Debit Credit Type Destination
/Source
02.09.20 £238.06  Card payment A
02.09.20 €500.00  Card payment D
03.09.20 £515.00  Faster Payments transfer B
04.09.20  €500.00 Credit D
09.09.20 £2.00  Faster Payments transfer C
09.09.20  £2.00 Credit C
09.09.20 £5,540.00  Faster Payments transfer C
09.09.20 £4,450.00  Faster Payments transfer C
09.09.20 £10,015.00  Faster Payments transfer B
10.09.20 £9,950.00  Faster Payments transfer C
11.09.20 £9,905.00  Faster Payments transfer C
15.09.20 £5,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
17.09.20 £2,200.00  Faster Payments transfer B
02.10.20 £16,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
06.10.20 £17,100.00  Faster Payments transfer C
06.10.20 £450.00  Faster Payments transfer C
07.10.20 £2,284.00  Faster Payments transfer B
08.10.20 £10,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
09.10.20 £8,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
14.10.20 £10,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
15.10.20 £10,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
16.10.20 £1,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
19.10.20 £2,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
26.10.20 £1,000.00  Faster Payments transfer B
26.10.20 £1,000.00  Faster Payments transfer B
28.10.20 £9,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
28.10.20 £4,500.00  Faster Payments transfer C
28.10.20 £1,300.00  Faster Payments transfer C
04.11.20 £15,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
05.11.20 £15,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
06.11.20 £9,200.00  Faster Payments transfer C
06.11.20 £9,200.00  Faster Payments transfer C
10.11.20 £14,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
11.11.20 £6,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
11.11.20 £4,500.00  Faster Payments transfer C
12.11.20 £9,300.00  Faster Payments transfer C
13.11.20 £19,620.00  Faster Payments transfer C
17.11.20 £20,000.00  Faster Payments transfer C
18.11.20 £9,200.00  Faster Payments transfer C
24.11.20  £3,100  other
26.11.20 £3,100.00  Faster Payments transfer C
27.11.20  £6,300  other
TOTAL: £276,027.04 £9,845.24   
Overall net loss: £266,181.80   Based on the information Ive seen, I understand that these payments can broadly be 
categorised into two phases: 
- earlier payments intended to fund investments; and,
- later payments intended to cover fees and costs Mr M was told he had to pay when 
he asked to withdraw money. 
When Mr M exhausted his own funds, he borrowed from friends and family (to whom he 
says he now owes repayment). 
Ultimately, Mr M was told that the trader would fly over from Switzerland to London to meet 
him. They would bring his money with them on the plane (by this point supposedly in excess 
of £300,000) in the form of cash. Mr M says he instantly realised something wasnt right.
Around 24 November 2020, Mr M reported the matter as a scam to NatWest. 
There were subsequent transactions relating to the scam. It appears the scammer sent Mr M 
two credits to his account totalling £9,400, on 24 November and 27 November. And, while by 
this point Mr M was aware this was not a legitimate investment firm, he sent the first of these 
payments to C. He says he thought it would be wrong to retain funds that he believed he 
was not entitled to. He did not return the second credit  in line with NatWests instructions.
Mr Ms circumstances at the time
Mr M has explained that at the time of the scam he was part way through a course of 
chemotherapy for a brain tumour. This had first been diagnosed in 2008 but had 
deteriorated. Mr M explains he suffers from epilepsy caused by the tumour and this leads to 
two to three daily seizures. Mr M has provided medical records to demonstrate this.
In addition, due to the pandemic Mr M was self-isolating at the time. He explains that this 
had left him in a very dark place and caused him significant anxiety.
Mr M says all of these circumstances had a serious impact on him at the time he fell victim to 
the scam.
NatWests intervention
At the point of the payment of £9,950 on 10 September 2020 to C (marked in bold in the 
above list) the activity on Mr Ms account was flagged by NatWests fraud prevention 
systems. His initial payment instruction was blocked pending a call with Mr M. 
NatWest has provided a copy of that call, which lasted for approximately one hour. During 
the call Mr M was asked about the transaction. He was also asked about the earlier transfer 
hed made on 9 September (this time to B) for the sum of £10,015.
Mr M initially told NatWest he was making the payments as his first venture into 
cryptocurrency. He said he was sending it to a friend who worked in an investment company. 
He gave NatWest the name of a genuine investment firm regulated in the UK. He said this 
firm was a representative of a major UK-based financial advisory network (which it is). He 
said he had known the adviser personally for many years.
There is no other evidence to suggest this firm or adviser had any connection to what was 
happening  it appears this was a story Mr M had devised. When NatWest asked Mr M to provide the phone number on which hed been speaking to this friend, Mr M refused and 
expressed concern that the bank might contact the adviser.
NatWest then asked Mr M if he had access to the accounts to which he was sending the 
funds. Mr M confirmed he did. Mr M also detailed his health conditions and wider 
circumstances.
After further questioning about the prior payment to B, and where those funds had now gone 
(which Mr M didnt seem to know) NatWests representative said (twice in succession) that 
he thought Mr M was the victim of a scam.
Mr M responded saying that thats put a whole new light on it. NatWest then continued to 
ask Mr M further questions, in what seems to have been an attempt to understand what was 
really happening.
Mr M reiterated his story about the adviser and said they represented a large UK advisory 
network. He asked NatWest whether it was trying to tell him that was not a legitimate 
advisory network.
Mr M asked whether he really had to answer all of NatWests questions, and said he didnt 
think hed explained clearly enough that he was doing all of this himself. Mr M said he knew 
there were risks in cryptocurrency, but he accepted that.
At this point NatWest told Mr M it was going to decline to process the payment altogether. 
Nonetheless, Mr M was told that he could resubmit it if he wished. He then asked if there 
was any way to stop future payments flagging and for any future need to speak to NatWest 
about payments like this. He said calls like this disrupted his routine and affected his sleep. 
He said he knew what he was doing and that this was his money (so he was entitled to 
decide what to do). NatWest reiterated that it would still be declining to process this payment 
instruction, and the call came to an end.
However, it seems Mr M subsequently resubmitted the payment and NatWest processed it 
without further intervention. It doesnt appear NatWest contacted Mr M about the subsequent 
payments he made.
NatWests position
NatWest declined to refund Mr M for his losses from the scam. It pointed out that the 
transfers Mr M had made to B and C were to accounts he held in his own name and said 
therefore hed not actually incurred any loss as a direct consequence of those payments. In 
other words, Mr M had sent money to his own accounts and NatWest was not involved in the 
subsequent transfers that resulted in the loss of that money.
NatWest thought Mr M should complain to the cryptocurrency exchanges from which the 
funds had ultimately been lost. It said it was not liable.
Mr M didnt think this was fair, and he asked this service to review the matter impartially.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ms complaint on 8 August 2022. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. An extract 
of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. 
As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests 
with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud or scam - 
for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank 
also has a duty to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice NatWest should have 
been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of 
character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial 
detriment to its customer. 
Here NatWest blocked and intervened just prior to the payment on 10 September 2020. 
Based on what I have seen I am satisfied it took this step in-line with the good industry 
practice I have outlined above. While I appreciate that our Investigator believed the 
previous payment (for £10,015) ought to have been the point at which NatWest should 
have intervened, I am satisfied that it was not unreasonable for NatWest to have only 
intervened when it did. 
By the point of the blocked payment, I find that the bank was right to have concerns 
about the risk of financial harm to Mr M. 
It took the appropriate step of contacting him before it would process his payment 
instruction. Weighing everything up, I am not persuaded that the evidence here supports 
the contention that it should have intervened earlier than the point at which it did.
But in saying that NatWest intervened at the appropriate point in the circumstances, 
I think it ought to have taken further steps than it did. During the call NatWest clearly 
identified that Mr M had significant health concerns and so was potentially vulnerable. 
NatWest further identified that he was likely the victim of a scam. It said it would not 
process the payment instruction hed given it  presumably on that very basis. 
However, NatWest allowed Mr M to resubmit the payment instruction (and to make 
numerous and substantial later payments) without further question despite knowing what 
it now knew about the circumstances. I dont consider that Mr M was particularly 
insistent during the call. More importantly hed disclosed potential vulnerabilities to the 
bank and given the bank sufficient reason to determine that payments were almost 
certainly being made as a consequence of fraud.
In short, I dont find NatWests actions were sufficient here. NatWest had a responsibility 
not to permit further payments to be made to a scheme it had already identified was 
almost certainly fraudulent. Having been made aware of Mr Ms potential vulnerability, 
Id also expect it to have taken further steps to ensure he wasnt about to suffer financial 
harm from fraud. Because it did not prevent this, I find it must share some of the 
responsibility here.I have considered NatWests argument that the payments made from its account was 
not the ultimate source of the loss to the fraud. But I am not persuaded that this alters 
my view on NatWests share of the liability. As the investigator has already detailed, 
Mr M has been unable to recover any of the funds that were sent to the cryptocurrency 
exchanges involved. Here, NatWest had already identified that the funds were almost 
certainly going to be lost through fraud. Mr M was the banks customer and was about to 
suffer financial harm. NatWest knew that - and should have taken further steps to 
prevent this harm. I am satisfied that this reflects what could reasonably have been 
expected of NatWest in light of good industry practice and awareness of cryptocurrency-
based scams at the time. 
Should Mr M share responsibility?
Ive explained above why I think it is fair and reasonable for NatWest to bear some 
responsibility for what happened. I have gone on to consider whether Mr M should fairly 
share that responsibility. I will explain why I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for NatWest and Mr M to equally share responsibility for those payments I believe 
NatWest should have prevented.
I have taken into account everything Mr M has submitted and said about his 
circumstances and health at the time. I accept he was the victim of a cruel and 
aggressive scam here. I have considerable sympathy for the situation he now finds 
himself in.
But I think there were several aspects here that should reasonably have led Mr M to 
have had concerns that what he was being asked to do wasnt legitimate.
Firstly, the returns it seems likely he was offered (on a safe investment he could access 
whenever he needed) were significantly higher than could be expected for other 
investments. The terms he was being offered were arguably too good to be true. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr M didnt take even basic steps to validate what he was 
being told (such as checking whether the trader was registered with the FCA) before he 
sent considerable sums of money. Other aspects of the arrangement, including the need 
to send the investment funds via various cryptocurrency exchanges, ought to have 
similarly raised red flags  Mr M thought the monies he sent would be invested in large 
companies or shares so its unclear why hed need to make that investment using 
cryptocurrency.
Having reviewed the call he had with NatWest in relation to one of the earliest payments 
to C, I have to take into account that Mr M appears to have knowingly misled NatWest 
about what was happening and so potentially obstructed the banks efforts to protect 
him. The story he gave was a little inconsistent, but Mr M maintained it for some time. 
And while at one point he seems to acknowledge that what the bank has said has made 
him see things in a different light, he later reverts to saying that he knew what he was 
doing and that this was his money to do with as he chose.
Of course, its possible Mr M had been asked to lie to his bank by the trader. If that was 
the case, I think this also ought to have alerted Mr M to something being wrong. If this 
had been a legitimate investment opportunity, then why would he need to lie to his bank 
about it? This simply isnt the type of instruction a legitimate person or business would 
ask its customer to do. If on the other hand Mr M had concocted this story 
independently, Id similarly question why he thought he needed to do so for a legitimate 
investment.I think Mr M ought reasonably to have identified these and other causes for concern. As 
he proceeded nonetheless to make the payments he did, I consider it fair and 
reasonable that he should share equal responsibility with NatWest for the resulting 
losses.
I say this considering that in his interaction with NatWest during the intervention call he 
was apparently able to construct and maintain a fictional scenario to explain the 
payments he was making (despite some inconsistencies and hesitancy). And Mr M was 
able to instantly identify that the story he was told about the trader bringing such a large 
sum of cash on an international flight was highly implausible. With that in mind, while 
I have considerable sympathy for Mr M, I am not persuaded that his circumstances at 
the time mean he should not fairly bear a share of the responsibility. 
Putting matters right
I have found that both sides should fairly and reasonably bear an equal share of the 
losses from the point at which NatWest first intervened. Ive set out below what that 
means NatWest should now do. This is based on what I have been able to establish 
from the evidence provided to me. But I encourage further comments if either side 
disagrees with what I propose here.
Firstly, NatWest should repay 50% of the payments made by Mr M on or after 
10 September 2020. For the avoidance of doubt the payment made on that date for 
£9,950 should be included in the calculation. 
In its calculation, NatWest may fairly offset any sums already reimbursed and any 
credits Mr M received in connection with the scam. 
The relevant payments total £254,809.00, and the offsetting credits total £9,400.00, a 
net loss of £245,409.00  so 50% equates to a sum of £122,704.50.
The origin of the funds Mr M lost to this scam were a combination of his own savings 
and money hed borrowed from friends and family. 
In relation to the sums he borrowed from friends and family, Im persuaded that Mr M is 
now liable to repay the money he borrowed. But it would not be appropriate for him to 
receive compensation for being deprived of those sums. That was not being his money, 
so no interest award is payable in respect of that proportion of the payments. 
In saying this, it is difficult to establish exactly which credits correspond to these 
borrowed sums. Based on what I can ascertain from the statement history and Mr Ms 
comments, I currently believe this totalled £110,700.00 out of the net loss of 
£245,409.00. All the credits Ive identified as potential borrowing from friends and family 
were received into Mr Ms NatWest account after the date at which NatWest had 
intervened.
I understand the remainder came from Mr Ms own savings. This equates to a figure of 
£134,709.00. NatWest should add interest to the portion refunded from this sum at an 
appropriate savings account rate. It may use the average account rate it offered at the 
time for an instant access savings account - unless Mr M is able to provide NatWest with 
unambiguous evidence showing an alternate rate he would have otherwise received.
If he accepts my final decision, Mr M must undertake to reimburse NatWest any money 
relating to the scam payments that he subsequently recovers (or has already been able to recover) from other sources.
I invited both sides to provide any further arguments or information by 26 August 2022, after 
which point, I said I would issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest did not respond directly to the points raised in my provisional decision. Nor has it 
raised any new arguments or provided new information. But it said it was willing to offer to 
refund Mr M the sum of £122,704.50, without the addition of any interest. It said this offer 
was being made as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M didnt accept NatWests proposed settlement and asked me to reach a final decision 
on the matter. He responded to my provisional decision, saying in summary:
- He had no new information to provide but 50% of the loss was less than he would 
want to accept.
- He could not recall the phone call with NatWest in September 2020, and hed not 
taken any notes of it at the time. However, he didnt dispute that it must have taken 
place. Hed been in a very bad way at the time.
- He thought that even though he may have insisted NatWest should not call him again 
due to the impact of such a call on his wellbeing, it should have disregarded this and 
done so anyway - knowing what it did about his health.
- He hadnt seen any red flags or causes for concern in the investment at the time.
- NatWests handling of matters after the scam had come to light wasnt as it should 
have been, it had treated him badly and let him down. Specifically: hed been made 
to wait longer than he should have; evidence hed offered wasnt considered; the 
bank had caused delays to the investigation of matters by the cryptocurrency 
exchanges; and, the bank had placed emphasis on whether hed looked at a popular 
reviews website before investing, yet hed never even heard of that website.
Ive considered everything afresh and taken into account what Mr M has said. I want to 
acknowledge his comments that he genuinely doesnt recall the phone call and had never 
intended that it should appear as if he was trying to hide evidence. I can reassure Mr M that 
I do not doubt him when he explains that this was simply a call he failed to remember, given 
all the circumstances and with the considerable passage of time since then. 
In saying that, I have listened the call and I am satisfied it was Mr M speaking to the bank at 
the time. I understand Mr Ms point about his situation at the time and how it was impacting 
him. Ive taken that into careful consideration when Ive weighed up what I think is the fair 
outcome here. Mr M ultimately was the victim of a cynical scam, deceived into making 
substantial payments in the hope of making large profits. But equally I cannot disregard what 
he said to NatWest when it tried to intervene to protect him.
NatWest was placed in a difficult position. Mr M had told it (more than once) that he wanted 
to be reassured the bank would not call about future payments - because of the impact he 
said this had on his wellbeing. However, on balance, I do think NatWest needed to do more 
here  it had identified that Mr M was very likely the victim of financial harm. I do find the 
bank was at fault here. Likewise, I consider it could have handled the subsequent scam claim more efficiently.
However, I think Mr M must share some blame for what happened, for the reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision (and quoted above). He had inadvertently played a part in the 
success of the scam, and unfortunately contributed to his own losses. On all the facts, I find 
this should result in a reduction of the proportion of the loss NatWest can be fairly and 
reasonably be held liable to reimburse.
In the specific circumstances here, I consider it fair and reasonable that both parties should 
share equal responsibility for the losses that resulted.
Interest on the amount to be refunded
It would be helpful to clarify the interest payment that I believe is due here. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why I considered it fair that NatWest should 
reimburse Mr M for 50% of the net loss he sustained through the payments from 10 
September 2020 onwards, this percentage equating to the sum of £122,704.50
I also explained why I considered it fair that NatWest should additionally pay Mr M interest at 
a rate equivalent to the banks own instant access savings account applied from the time of 
each payment until the date of settlement. I said that this should apply only to that portion of 
the payments that had originated from Mr Ms own funds.
Having stated this, I set out what I believed to be the correct proportion to be applied  
based on payments to be reimbursed that originated from Mr Ms own funds versus the 
proportion relating to borrowing from friends and family. 
Given what I could establish, out of the total sum lost from the point NatWest intervened, the 
sum of £110,700 was borrowed and £134,709 came from Mr Ms own funds.
Neither side has proposed an alternative proportion or argued with my analysis, so I see no 
reason to depart from that approach.
So, in short, interest should be added to the first £67,354.50 of the amount to be refunded 
(this equating to 50% of the £134,709 that came from Mr Ms own funds). This interest 
should be calculated at the rate applicable to NatWests instant access savings account from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement (or nearest equivalent rate).
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, I have partly upheld Mr Ms 
complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. I now require the bank to settle the matter 
as detailed above. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr M:
 50% of the net loss Mr M incurred from the payment on 10 September 2020 
onwards, this percentage equating to the sum of £122,704.50, to be paid within 
28 days of receiving notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my final decision; plus,
 Pay interest on the first £67,354.50 of that amount, at the rate applicable to a 
National Westminster Bank Plc instant access savings account (less any tax properly 
deductible) to be calculated from the date of each payment until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman