DRN-3151737
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F are unhappy Nationwide Building Society charged them an early repayment 
charge when they moved and took out a new mortgage with Nationwide.
What happened
Mrs F and Mr F took out a capital repayment mortgage of around £146,500 with Nationwide 
in 2007. In around June 2020 they switched to a five-year fixed interest rate product which 
had an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was repaid within that period or they 
took out another interest rate product. 
Mrs F and Mr F understood that if they moved during the five-year period, provided they kept 
their mortgage with Nationwide, they wouldnt have to pay the ERC. 
In early 2021, Mrs F and Mr F planned to move to a new house. They applied on-line to 
Nationwide for a mortgage of around £315,000 with a fixed interest rate product over five 
years. After theyd completed their purchase, Nationwide contacted them to say they couldnt 
close their previous mortgage account as the funds theyd received werent enough to cover 
the ERC of around £3,550 that was due.
Mrs F and Mr F disputed the ERC was payable and complained to Nationwide. Since 
Nationwide didnt uphold their complaint, they brought it to our service. Our investigator 
came to the view the ERC was payable and Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong. Since 
Mrs F and Mr F didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs F and Mr Fs strength of feeling about what happened. I can understand 
having to pay the ERC put them in some difficulty as they didnt have the funds available. 
And they say they only kept their mortgage with Nationwide to avoid paying an ERC. 
However, having considered everything carefully, I dont uphold their complaint for the 
reasons Ill explain.
Mrs F and Mr F say they were told in branch at Nationwide that, even if they moved to a new 
house, if they took out another Nationwide mortgage, they wouldnt have to pay an ERC. I 
havent seen any records of the conversations they had, but Ive no reason to doubt what 
Mrs F and Mr F say.
However, before Mrs F and Mr F took out their fixed interest rate product in around June 
2020, Nationwide sent them an offer which provided information about when an ERC would 
be payable. I think the offer set out information about the ERC in terms that were clear, fair 
and not misleading, as Id expect them to be. It said an ERC would be payable if they repaid 
the loan or switched to another product before the interest rate period came to an end. But 
they could transfer  port  the interest rate product to a new mortgage with Nationwide 
subject to Nationwides lending criteria at the time and on the terms set out in the offer.
Mrs F and Mr F made their application for a new loan and a new interest rate with 
Nationwide on-line. Nationwide have provided us with information about their on-line process 
as well as screen shots of information their customers see as part of that process. Theyve 
explained their website confirms porting is an advised process and cant be completed 
through their on-line portal on a non-advised basis. If a customer is moving home and wants 
to take their current mortgage with them, they need to contact Nationwide direct to arrange 
that.
The guidelines at the start of the on-line application process which Mrs F and Mr F will have 
seen explained that customers could apply on-line provided, amongst other things, they 
werent planning to transfer their existing Nationwide mortgage deal to their new property as 
This may mean youll have to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). If they were 
planning to transfer their existing mortgage, they needed to call Nationwide or make an 
appointment at their local branch. 
Nationwides on-line application process also set out clearly that they only provided advice 
through their branches and by telephone, and that the on-line process was non-advised. It 
said, amongst other things, that if customers chose to go ahead with the on-line application, 
they wouldnt get any advice about whether the mortgage or the product they were applying 
for met their requirements or was suitable for them. Customers were asked to confirm they 
understood this and were able to continue with the application. Mrs F and Mr F chose to go 
ahead on that basis.
I think the 2020 offer and information provided as part of the on-line application process, 
taken together, were clear enough to tell Mrs F and Mr F that if they continued with their on-
line application for a new mortgage at a new interest rate, theyd risk being liable to pay an 
ERC. And, if they wanted to avoid that, by transferring their existing rate to their new 
mortgage, they should contact Nationwide to discuss things. 
Given the information Nationwide provided, I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs F and    
Mr F to think Nationwide would link their on-line application to their existing mortgage in 
some way that would avoid an ERC being charged. Nationwide were entitled to think Mrs F 
and Mr F had chosen to go ahead with their application for a new mortgage and new interest 
rate. And, although they did ask Mrs F and Mr F to clarify information theyd provided in their 
application, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have offered any advice as part of that - 
Nationwide had clearly indicated the on-line application was a non-advised process.
Ive considered the documents Nationwide sent to Mrs F and Mr F after theyd made their 
application. None of them indicates they were transferring their existing interest rate product 
to their new mortgage. The offer clearly shows the new rate they were getting. And the ERC 
was included in the redemption statement Nationwide sent to Mrs F and Mr Fs solicitors.
Bearing everything in mind, I think Nationwide did enough to make it clear to Mrs F and Mr F 
that by choosing to go ahead with a new mortgage, at a new interest rate, they risked 
becoming liable to pay an ERC when they redeemed their existing mortgage. Whilst I 
understand Mrs F and Mr F may not have realised that at the time, I dont think Nationwide 
has done anything wrong. And Im satisfied the ERC was payable in line with the terms and 
conditions of their previous mortgage. 
I can understand Mrs F was disappointed when a representative at Nationwide gave a 
different view on how Nationwide might respond to customers complaints in her 
circumstances. Nationwide had already investigated Mrs F and Mr Fs individual complaint and issued a formal response which this service has now considered. This service doesnt 
generally consider complaints about complaint handling. But I havent seen anything that 
leads me to conclude Nationwide provided poor service overall.
I sympathise with Mrs F and Mr Fs situation. But, bearing everything in mind, I dont think 
Nationwide have done anything wrong. So, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for  
Mrs F and Mr F, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs F and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman