DRN-3232720
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Ts complaint. 
summary and background to complaint
Mrs T has said Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2006.
Nationwide didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mrs T had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Nationwide did offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mrs Ts PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mrs T about the high 
level of commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Ts complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Nationwides payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Mrs Ts representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. Also 
Mrs T asked us to continue with her complaint - so it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Nationwide sent a final response letter to Mrs T in November 2013. Ive seen a letter from 
her from September 2013 in which she says she writes to see if I have paid any additional 
PPI Insurance with yourselves and asks Nationwide to look into this. The final response 
letter refers to the PPI policy, refers to Mrs T having raised issues about it and says it does 
not agree the PPI policy was mis-sold. It gives Nationwides views on various matters, such 
as saying Mrs T requested the cover and referring to information it says she was given at the 
sale itself. So it appears Mrs Ts complaint at the time was about the sale of the policy and 
Nationwides 2013 letter was a final response letter for that complaint.
So the six months Mrs T had to refer that complaint to us ran out in 2014. She contacted us 
in 2019, using representatives to do so, and complaining again about the sale of the policy. 
This was after the period for bringing such a complaint to us ran out in 2014.
Mrs Ts representatives have said they cant verify that all matters they are now raising were 
addressed in Mrs Ts previous complaint. But in my view Mrs Ts current complaint about the 
PPI sale, alleging a mis-sale, is in substance the complaint to which Nationwide responded 
in 2013. So in my view it is a complaint she had six months to bring to us from the date of 
Nationwides 2013 letter. As she came to us outside that time, the complaint was referred to 
us out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Having considered 
all that has been said by and for Mrs T, Ive nothing to suggest exceptional circumstances 
apply here. For example, Ive seen nothing to suggest she couldnt have referred a complaint 
about the sale to us before the time to do so ran out in 2014 and Ive nothing to suggest the 
time that elapsed between then and her approach to us in 2019 was a delay caused by any 
exceptional circumstance. So I dont think exceptional circumstances apply here.
It follows that were unable to help Mrs T with her complaint about how the policy was sold  
Im sorry that this may disappoint Mrs T.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
because Nationwide didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs T, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified. Mrs Ts representatives have made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mrs T should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs T about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mrs T wouldnt have taken the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view, a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ts representatives suggest, driven to conclude she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission, for 
the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs T paid for her PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. From what Nationwide has sent us, it sent Mrs T a cheque for 
this in or shortly after September 2019  probably on 4 September 2019.
So I consider Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. If this 
redress has already been paid by Nationwide to Mrs T, I wouldnt consider that it needs to do 
anything more.my final decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Ts complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and I dont consider the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs T an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable)  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman