DRN-3688471
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Nottingham Building Society (Nottingham) lost Mrs Ps 
savings account.
What happened
Mrs P sadly died in 2018. She had a savings account with Nottingham, with the last entry in 
her passbook being a withdrawal of £202 in August 1999. The balance shown was then 
£1406.95. This complaint is brought by the estate of Mrs P, which is represented by Mr P. 
The estate of Mrs P complains that the money is still held by Nottingham and the estate 
should be paid the balance. The estate is sure that Mrs P made no withdrawals after 1999  
and so the balance must be the same as it was then.
Nottingham said their systems changed in 2002, and all accounts were migrated to a system 
with new account numbers. There wasnt an account in Mrs Ps name at that time. Theyd 
searched their records using Mrs Ps names, date of birth, and post codes for the addresses 
she lived at. But they couldnt locate an account. Nottingham said that the fact that a 
passbook exists isnt proof that an account exists  a passbook is just a snapshot of an 
account at a point in time. Nottingham said they couldnt do anymore.
The estate of Mrs P brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said he agreed with what 
Nottingham had said. He could also see evidence of the searches conducted by Nottingham 
on all three address that Mrs P lived at  and these showed nothing. He didnt think there 
was anything more that Nottingham could do.
The estate of Mrs P asked that an ombudsman look at its complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked more questions of Nottingham as we wanted to find out as much as possible. We 
looked again at the searches they done on all three addresses where Mrs P lived since 1999 
 and nothing was shown. This included a third address which Mr P gave to us. Nottingham 
told us that they dont have a dormant account closure process  whereby old, dormant 
balances are written off.  So all accounts, if they have a balance, remain open. And so if 
there was a balance held on this account, it wouldve been found by the searches. 
Nottingham said it was likely that the account was closed by the account holder between 
1999 and the migration in 2002  as the searches wouldve shown any account held since 
2002.
I can see that Mr P is certain that his late wife didnt withdraw the money, and someone must 
have taken it. He has therefore said Nottingham must be at fault. He wants Nottingham to 
provide evidence of the account being closed.
Ive considered what Mr P has said to us, and I sympathise with him. But given the passage 
of time, we cant expect Nottingham to produce documents from more than 20 years ago  
they arent obliged to keep documents for so long. And we have seen that theyve tried to 
find the account, and it doesnt exist in their books. And so  we cant expect then to do any 
more than they have.
I appreciate the strength of Mr Ps feeling abut this and so he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I am not going to ask Nottingham to do anything more here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman