DRN-4090117
The complaint
Miss C has complained that she experienced difficulties when trying to upgrade her 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) account to a fee-paying FlexPlus account. 
Miss C is also unhappy because Nationwide issued her with a new debit card whilst she was 
abroad. This led to her experiencing difficulties making payments for her accommodation.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint, largely for the same reasons that the adjudicator gave.
Difficulties upgrading
On 27 December 2022 Miss C contacted Nationwide via webchat to ask how she could go 
about upgrading her account and also asked how she could view her PIN. Nationwide 
responded to say that Miss C could upgrade her account via internet banking and arranged 
for a PIN reminder to be posted out to Miss C (as it could not be viewed form the banking 
app). On the following day Miss C contacted the webchat again to arrange an appointment 
to upgrade her account. As her local branch was closed at the time, Nationwide provided 
Miss C with the telephone number she could call to upgrade her account.
Having reviewed the webchat I can see that Nationwide did explain to Miss C how she could 
upgrade online, although it wouldve been helpful had Nationwide confirmed that Miss C 
could not upgrade via the app. However, I cant see that Nationwide had incorrectly told Miss 
C that she could upgrade via the app. 
Nevertheless, I can see that Miss C was able to upgrade her account on 29 December 2022. 
As such, whilst Nationwide couldve perhaps been a little clearer in its initial communication 
about the app not being a viable option, I cant see that this had a significant impact on Miss 
C and, after Nationwide provided Miss C with the telephone number to call, she was able to 
upgrade her account.
Difficulties paying with a debit card abroad
Miss C went away in mid-January and I understand she tried to use her existing debit card to 
pay for her accommodation, but the transactions were declined. 
Having considered the predicament that Miss C found herself in, I do appreciate that it 
wouldve been stressful for her, and Im glad to hear that Miss C fortunately had alternative 
methods of payment. But in terms of considering whether Nationwide has done anything 
wrong, Im unable to say that it has in this case. Overall, it seems that a new debit card was 
sent out to Miss C but was delayed in the post, and it unfortunately arrived after Miss C had 
already departed for her trip. But it is the case that I cant reasonably hold Nationwide 
responsible for the actions or delays caused by third parties  such as the postal system in 
this case. 
I note that Miss C says she wasnt sure if a new card was being issued, as her existing debit 
card had not expired. Miss C says she only realised shed been sent a new card when she 
tried to use the card and realised that the PIN number had changed on the app.
Again, looking through the evidence that is available, it does appear that Miss C was made 
aware that she would be sent a new debit card. And Miss C was told that it usually takes 
around 7  10 days for it to arrive, but to make allowances due to the postal strikes and the 
agent said hopefully it should be with you.  
As such, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to say that Nationwide has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. It therefore follows, that I cant reasonably ask 
Nationwide to pay Miss C compensation for the difficulties she experienced, when they look 
to have largely been caused by delays in the postal service.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman