DRN-3416592
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled her 
claim following an accident.
Where I refer to AA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On 2 June 2021 Mrs B was involved in a road traffic accident where her car was hit 
from the rear by a lorry which failed to stop. She called AA, the same day to report 
the incident and her vehicle was recovered by AA. However, it wasnt until almost 
three weeks later that AA considered the report provided by its agents. Mrs B had to 
chase to get the matter progressed.
A number of weeks past and Mrs B continued to chase the lack of progress on 
various occasions without being provided meaningful updated information on the 
repairs. She was promised call backs which didnt materialise. 
Mrs B then encountered a number of issues with the repairs to her vehicle, including 
the loss of fuel whilst the vehicle was with the repairers and being asked to pay for a 
replacement battery despite no previous issues with it, and additionally the vehicle 
being with AAs and its repairers for almost three months. 
Mrs B had to make a number of visits to collect her vehicle but for various reasons 
she was unable to take the vehicle home, such as poor initial repairs to the vehicle 
and then subsequent damage to the front of it which hadnt been there prior to the 
vehicle being passed to AAs repairers. 
When the repair was eventually completed the vehicle was returned to Mrs B on 15 
September 2021 but had to be taken back for a further issue with the rear wiper. The 
total time taken for Mrs B to have her fully repaired vehicle was almost four months 
from the incident. 
Also during this period there were a number of occasions when Mrs B was asked to 
return her hire vehicle despite her vehicle not being ready to collect. Agents turned 
up at her property to collect the vehicle without her knowledge. She needed to 
repeatedly contact AA to clarify the issue. Mrs B told us she was extremely upset as 
she would have been left without a vehicle and this caused her further unnecessary 
distress.
So, from the information provided, Im not persuaded that AA handled Mrs Bs claim 
promptly. I say this because almost four months is an excessive amount of time to have the 
repairs completed especially when the repairers are ones selected and approved by the 
insurer itself. In addition, there was a clear lack of communication during this time and it 
seems the claim was only progressed, and an update provided when Mrs B initiated contact.   
Looking at everything, I agree with our investigator that AAs poor service caused Mrs B 
prolonged and significant upset in what was already a traumatic experience for her. While I 
appreciate that Mrs B would have suffered some inconvenience in the process of dealing 
with a claim of this nature this was only exacerbated by the actions of AA. 
AA offered £200 in respect of some of the delays and poor service. But I dont think that is 
sufficient recognition for the impact of its poor service and delays in these circumstances. 
Taking all this into account Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate Mrs B for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint and require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs B a total of £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has already paid some 
compensation to Mrs B for this, its allowed to deduct what its already paid from the total 
amount.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman