DRN-2854577
The complaint
Mr Ps complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) cancelled his credit card due to 
him being in persistent debt  even though he was making payments towards the balance.
What happened
Mr P had a Barclays credit card for a number of years.  He said hed always made the 
payments required and hadnt exceeded his credit limit.  
Towards the end of 2020, Mr P made a payment of £500 towards his outstanding balance.  
And he increased his direct debit so that he would reduce what he owed.  He aimed to pay 
off the balance within the following twelve months.
In March 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr P, advising him that he was in persistent debt and 
inviting him to contact them to set up a payment plan.  And Barclays said that, if Mr P didnt 
do this, theyd suspend his card.  Mr P contacted Barclays to tell them hed set up a plan in 
November 2020.  And he made a complaint about Barclays correspondence with him.
Barclays responded to Mr Ps complaint by explaining why they said he was in persistent 
debt.  They confirmed that, unless Mr P could clear the full balance, his card would be 
suspended.  And they said that paydown plans to reduce that debt could only be set up after 
a customer had discussed the plan with Barclays.
The following month, Mr Ps card was suspended.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  He told our investigator that he didnt think 
Barclays had acted fairly when they suspended his card even though hed arranged to 
increase his payments to pay off what he owed.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but concluded that Barclays didnt need to do 
anything differently to resolve it.  He explained that Barclays had dealt with Mr P in line with 
guidance produced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to help people in persistent 
debt reduce what they owe.  And he was satisfied that Barclays had been in regular contact 
with Mr P to let him know what they intended.  He didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Barclays assessed Mr P as being in persistent debt.  Persistent debt is defined as when 
someone has paid more in interest, fees and charges in the previous 18 months than theyve 
paid towards what they owe.  Mr P hasnt suggested Barclays assessment was wrong.
The FCA expects businesses to identify customers in persistent debt and has set out how 
they expect businesses to deal with those customers.  I can see that Barclays dealt with    
Mr P in line with this.  They wrote to Mr P after hed been in that position for 18 months 
explaining how theyd assessed him and that, if he could, he should make higher payments 
to reduce what he owed.  And Barclays said theyd monitor the position over the following 18 
months to see if Mr P had done this.  But, if he hadnt, theyd suspend his card so he couldnt 
increase his debt by spending.
Barclays records show they wrote regularly to Mr P reminding him of the position and that 
they were monitoring it.  And Ive seen Mr Ps statements, which shows he continued to 
make minimum payments after hed received Barclays letters.
Ive seen that Barclays didnt write to Mr P again immediately after hed been in persistent 
debt for 36 months.  But thats because that coincided with the early stages of the Covid-19 
pandemic.  And Ive seen that they resumed regular contact in the second half of 2020 and 
didnt just write to him out of the blue in March 2021.
So Im satisfied that Barclays acted in accordance with FCA guidance.  And that they kept 
Mr P informed about what they were doing.
I understand Mr Ps frustrated.  By March 2021, hed made the decision to try and pay what 
he owed Barclays, had increased his direct debit and had made a number of payments to 
reduce his debt.  Its clear he was trying to do what he thought was the right thing.  
Unfortunately, he doesnt seem to have spoken to Barclays about his plan, or whether it 
would achieve what he wanted and pay off everything he owed.  Its reasonable for Barclays 
to check that.  And they told him in their response to his complaint that a paydown plan 
needed to be discussed with them.  So I dont think they did anything wrong by not just 
accepting Mr Ps assurances.
Mr P was particularly unhappy that Barclays suspended his card.  Ive thought carefully 
about this.  Im satisfied that Barclays told Mr P this was a possibility  and that he was given 
notice in March 2021 that Barclays would do this the following month.  
I appreciate Mr P was making payments which he intended to reduce his debt.  But he was 
also using the card for purchases each month.  Hes said these were only for small amounts.  
But, in the absence of an agreed paydown plan, Barclays had no way of ensuring the debt 
continued to reduce, rather than remaining static, or increasing due to the spending.  
In those circumstances, I think it was reasonable to suspend Mr Ps card.  And that means I 
dont think Barclays need to do any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman