DRN-1168184
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1992. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr W says he didnt know he was paying for the PPI and didnt know he had a choice about 
taking it out.
There isnt much information available about the sale. Mr W hasnt given us much detail 
about what happened, and Lloyds hasnt been able to send us any evidence from the sale 
showing Mr W chose to take the PPI. But, due to the amount of time that has passed since 
the sale, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what it does mean is that, because of the limited information available, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds made Mr W think he had to have the PPI. 
So I think its most likely Lloyds did make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than hes told us he wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any savings or other 
means he had to make his mortgage repayments.
As well as checking it was right for him, Lloyds had to give Mr W clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But a 
mortgage is a serious financial commitment and Mr Ws property couldve been at risk if hed 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr W if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr W off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:    Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr W,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman