DRN-4068359
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has not added 
enough interest to a refund payment it made to him.
What happened
Mr C had a pension policy with Scottish Life. Royal London is now responsible for the
administration of this policy and I will refer to it throughout this decision.
Mr C carried out a review of his pension in 2021. He says he noticed a discrepancy of over
£8,000 between the contributions he had made and the contributions Royal London said it
had received. He contacted Royal London about this.
Royal London checked its records. It said hed made a contribution in March 1999 which had
exceeded his available tax reliefs for that year. Royal London said it had refunded the
overpayment to him. It had arranged for two cheques to be sent to him in October 2000 
one for over £6,000 and the other for interest on this sum. Royal London said it had checked
its records and neither of the cheques had been cashed. It agreed to reissue the payment to
him. It sent him a payment made up of the original refund amount together with interest on
this amount (calculated at Bank of England bank rate  sometimes referred to as Bank of
England base rate) for the relevant period, up to the date of payment. Royal London
deducted tax from the interest payment.
Mr C did not agree. He complained to Royal London. He said interest should be paid on the
original refund amount at the same rate as hed been able to achieve on his investments
with building societies. He thought he should have received interest of around £7,000. He
also said he hadnt been sent a certificate for the tax Royal London had deducted and, in
any event, he didnt think it shouldve deducted tax from the interest it had paid him. Mr C
said hed spent many hours trying to get this issue resolved. He thought Royal London
should pay him £20 per hour for 20 hours of his time.
Royal London investigated his complaint. It said it was satisfied that the original cheques had
been sent to its regional office in 2000, but it couldnt be certain what happened after that.
The cheques had not been presented and as a result the funds had been put into its
orphaned monies account and had appeared as a liability on its balance sheet. It had now
paid the monies to Mr C together with interest. It also agreed to pay him £150 as a gesture
of goodwill for its delay in responding to his enquiry.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She
firstly considered whether our service could look into Mr Cs complaint given that the refund
had originally been made in 2000, which was more than six years before hed complained. It
was also more than three years since our investigator thought Mr C ought reasonably to
have been aware he had cause for complaint. She noted hed been told in 2000 that a
refund was due to be paid to him. So, she thought that under the Rules which applied to our
service we could not look into that part of Mr Cs complaint which was about why the refund
cheque had not been sent to him in 2000.
Our investigator said our service could look into those parts of Mr Cs complaint which
related to what had happened in 2021 when Royal London had issued him with a cheque for
the refund together with interest on that amount.
Both parties accepted what our investigator said about the parts of the complaint our service
could look into.
After the matter was referred to our service Royal London accepted it had not issued a tax
certificate for the amount it had deducted from the interest it had paid to Mr C. In the
circumstances, it agreed to refund Mr C the amount of tax it had deducted (£743.15). Our
investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. She also thought that Royal Londons offer
to pay Mr C £150 for the trouble and upset hed experienced was fair and reasonable. She
didnt think it should have to pay anything further.
Our investigator then considered the amount of interest Royal London had added to the
refund amount. Royal London had agreed to send Mr C the full refund amount together with
interest based on the Bank of England bank rate for the period. She didnt think that was fair.
She thought Royal London should pay Mr C 8% simple interest on the amount of the refund
for the period.
Royal London disagreed. It said it would not pay 8% simple interest on the amount of the
refund. It thought it had acted fairly and reasonably when it paid Bank of England bank rate
(compounded) for the period.
Because Royal London disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id comment at the outset that I agree with our investigator when she said our service
could not look into that part of Mr Cs complaint which related to the fact he said he
hadnt received the original cheques issued in 2000. Royal London has provided us
with a copy of a letter which it sent to Mr C in August 2000. Mr C has confirmed that
he has found this letter in his own records. And, Royal London has provided us with
a copy of the response it received from Mr C in September 2000.
In its letter, Royal London set out the reasons why it couldnt apply all of the monies,
which Mr C had sent to it on 30 March 1999, to his pension. It said:
The cheque can be used to pay for a carry forward of the remaining relief
from 98/99 .and the remainder can be refunded to you.
Mr Cs response stated:
I would agree that the simplest way to proceed would be for me to receive a
repayment of the excess.
Mr C says he didnt receive the refund and Royal London cannot confirm that it was
forwarded to him by its regional office. But, I am satisfied that more than six years
has elapsed since the date when Royal London said it would issue the refund. And
Im also satisfied that more than three years has elapsed since the date when Mr C
ought reasonably to have been aware he hadnt received a refund cheque fromRoyal London. So, I cannot look into this part of his complaint.
I can look into what happened in 2021. There is no dispute that Royal London has
now paid Mr C the full amount of the refund he was due to receive in 2000. And its
paid interest on this amount  from which it had initially deducted interest. It has now
also offered to pay him the gross amount of interest because it didnt issue the tax
certificate to him.
Id just comment in passing that the law does require a business to deduct income
tax at the basic rate, from compensatory interest payments  whether the consumer
is a taxpayer or not. So, I dont think Royal London did anything wrong when it
deducted tax from the compensatory interest payment. But, it should have sent Mr C
a tax certificate. It accepts it didnt do that and for that reason it has now offered to
make an additional payment to him equal to the amount of tax it deducted. I think that
is fair and reasonable.
The outstanding part of Mr Cs complaint which has not been resolved relates to how
interest has been calculated for the period between the date the refund cheque was
originally issued and the date that Royal London made the payment to him.
Mr C thinks he should be paid interest at the rate of interest he was able to obtain on
his building society accounts. Our investigator thought he should be paid 8% simple
interest. Royal London has paid interest at Bank of England bank rate (compounded
annually). Ive thought about each of these approaches. Ive provisionally decided
that Royal London has acted fairly and reasonably when it used Bank of England
bank rate. Ill explain why.
When the refund cheques which were issued in 2000 remained uncashed, Royal
London ultimately treated these monies as orphaned monies, retaining the liability
on its balance sheet. That meant it treated the full amount as still due and owing to
Mr C  even though the monies hadnt been paid over to him. I dont think it did
anything wrong when it did that. And it has kept records for the period which meant
that when Mr C did come forward to claim the monies, it was able to pay the full
amount to him.
Public interest dictates that money ordinarily due to consumers should not unduly
benefit businesses. Thats why I think it was fair and reasonable for Royal London to
pay interest on the refund amount when it made the payment to Mr C in 2021.
Mr C says he should get the interest he would have received had he put the money
in building society deposits. But, for the reasons given earlier, my view is that Mr C
ought reasonably to have queried why he hadnt received the refund at the time. If he
had done so, he would have received the refund in 2000 and been in a position to
have put it into a building society account, or used it any other way he saw fit. But his
lack of action meant he was never able to benefit in that way. Thats not Royal
Londons fault and I dont think its fair and reasonable to say Royal London should
now pay for those lost returns.
I also currently dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Royal London to
pay interest at 8% (simple interest). That rate of interest is sometimes awarded by
our service when a business has wrongly or unfairly deprived a consumer of money
that it owes. Its also the current rate of interest that applies where there is a
judgment debt. But neither applies here. Royal London has always accepted that the
refund is due and owing to Mr C  its held the liability on its balance sheet since the
date the cheques were issued in 2000. It didnt raise any dispute about making thepayment to him when he contacted it in 2021. And Im satisfied it would have paid the
refund had Mr C queried it earlier - as he ought reasonably to have done. So Im not
persuaded its appropriate to require Royal London to pay 8% simple interest.
Ive then thought about the rate of interest Royal London has applied here. Its used
the Bank of England bank rate which applied throughout the period. Its also paid
Mr C compound interest. As mentioned above, during the period that the refund
remained in its orphaned funds account, Royal London retained this amount as a
liability on its balance sheet - which was repayable on demand. Monies which are
repayable on demand generally do not attract a rate of interest which exceeds central
bank base rates. So, having considered everything here, I think Royal London acted
fairly and reasonably when it applied the Bank of Englands bank rate of interest to
the refund amount. I dont require it to have to do anything more.
Royal London has already offered to pay Mr C £150 by way of compensation
because it accepted it had delayed responding to his correspondence. Ive noted that
Mr C first asked Royal London to look into the discrepancy in his contributions in
August 2021. It wasnt until November 2021, and only after Mr C raised a complaint,
that it responded to his concerns and sent him a cheque for the refund, plus interest.
In its response Royal London accepted it had caused delay and inconvenience. It
offered to pay Mr C £150 as a goodwill gesture.
I can see there was a delay of just over three months responding to Mr Cs query
about the discrepancy. And although I can understand that Royal London wouldve
had to check its historical records before it could revert to Mr C, it has accepted that
its service couldve been better. Having considered everything here, I currently think
£150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the delay Mr C experienced. I dont
require Royal London to have to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this
complaint, in part, about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
If it hasnt done so already, I intend to require it to take the following actions:
Because it didnt issue a tax certificate to Mr C, pay him £743.15 being
the amount of tax it deducted from the compensatory interest payment;
and
Pay Mr C £150 by way of compensation for the distress and
inconvenience he experienced for what happened here.
Royal London accepted my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
Mr C also responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he made the following points:
Royal London had a duty of care to ensure that pension payments were 
promptly and properly made. It had left over £6,000 in unpresented 
cheques for around 20 years without making any enquiries.
The base rate of interest didnt seem appropriate for over £6,000 for circa 
20 years.
Mr C was the only person to have been proactive in the matter. Royal 
London had been slow to respond to queries and had been rude and 
unprofessional
Mr C had already received a tax refund from HMRC in respect of the 
£743.15 which Royal London had deducted from the compensatory interest payment. He said he didnt want a second tax refund from Royal 
London but he did want it to issue a certificate of tax deducted.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision.
As I said in my provisional decision, and for the reasons set out there, I could look into what
happened in 2021. But, I couldnt look into what had happened in 1998/1999. I also
explained why I considered that it was fair and reasonable for Royal London to pay
compensatory interest on the amount of the refund it owed to Mr C.
Mr C doesnt think that Bank of England bank rate is an appropriate rate for compensatory 
interest given the length of time (circa 20 years) and the amount of the refund. In my 
provisional decision I commented that public interest dictates that money ordinarily
due to consumers should not unduly benefit businesses. And, I considered the different rates
of interest that had been put forward by both parties. I explained why I was persuaded, on
balance, that Bank of England bank rate was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
that applied here. And although Mr C doesnt think thats appropriate, he hasnt provided me 
with any new or different information that persuades me to change my view.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr C said hed already received a tax refund from
HMRC for £743.15. So, in these circumstances, he didnt want Royal London to pay him a
second tax refund payment but rather he wanted it to provide him with a statement certifying
the interest it had paid to him and the amount of tax it had deducted. I think thats fair and
reasonable. Royal London has now confirmed it will issue the certificate of tax deducted. So,
Ive amended the actions I require Royal London to take here to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about The Royal London Mutual
Insurance Society Limited.
If it has not done so already, I now require it to take the following actions:
issue a certificate of tax deducted to Mr C, setting out the gross amount of
compensatory interest it paid to him (£3,715.77) the tax deducted 
(£743.15) from that amount and the net payment it made to him. The 
certificate should include the date of payment; and
Pay Mr C £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced for what happened here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman