DRN-3783956
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has declined her claim for treatment for her dog on the ground that he had a pre-
existing condition.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. 
Briefly stated, Ms R took out a policy with C&G on 17 September 2021 to cover her dog who 
Ill refer to as L.
In March 2022, L suffered from repeated bouts of vomiting and diarrhoea. The cause of this 
was investigated by his vet as the cause was unclear. Ms R claimed on her policy for the 
cost of this investigation which amounted to £564.55. She also says she suffered additional 
costs for food for L and for the replacement of rugs, sheets and other bedding damaged by 
Ls repeated vomiting and diarrhoea.
After having looked at Ls veterinary history, C&G declined Ms Rs claims. It noted that L had 
had an episode of vomiting in September 2019 which pre-dated the inception of her policy. It 
referred to the following terms of the policy:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
 A Pre-Existing Condition is defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
C&G maintains that Ls vomiting and diarrhoea in March 2022 was related to his vomiting in 
September 2019 and was therefore a pre-existing condition. It therefore added the following 
endorsement to Ms Rs policy:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Digestive System with effect from 17 
September 2021.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with C&Gs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator initially considered that C&G hadnt acted unfairly by repudiating Ms Rs 
claim, but subsequently issued a revised view upholding Ms Rs complaint. He didnt 
consider that C&G had asked Ms R to disclose any previous symptoms or conditions that L 
had had, so Ms R hadnt failed to take reasonable care in disclosing Ls previous veterinary 
history which might have entitled C&G to have applied an exclusion to her policy.
In its response to our investigators view C&G stated that the vet described L as a colitis 
dog, and argued that colitis is a condition, so the claim was correctly declined.
As C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view, Ms Rs complaint has been referred to 
me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint and Ill give my reasons.
Ive considered whether or not C&G has acted fairly in adding the endorsement upon which 
it relies to decline Ms Rs claim. 
I dont consider that Ms R was asked any direct questions about Ls medical history when 
she took out her policy. She therefore didnt misrepresent Ls health. C&G cant therefore 
rely on the remedy available to it under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to retrospectively add an endorsement or exclusion it 
mightve applied at policy inception had it known about a pre-existing medical condition at 
that time.
But in my view its clear from the policy terms that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical 
conditions, and C&G can rely upon its right under the General Exclusion that Ive quoted 
above to add an endorsement should a claim be made for a condition that was pre-existing 
at policy inception.
But that right has to be exercised fairly. That requires there to be sufficient evidence of a 
connection between the condition claimed for and one that had happened or has shown 
Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the 
Waiting Period. The endorsement must also relate to the pre-existing condition in 
accordance with C&Gs underwriting criteria.
I dont consider that C&G has done enough to establish a connection between Ls vomiting 
in 2019 and the vomiting and diarrhoea that he suffered in March 2022, some 2.5 years 
later. 
In my view, vomiting and diarrhoea are not conditions in themselves. They can be signs of 
conditions, but they can also be signs of other factors, such as ingesting something that 
causes upset. Vomiting and diarrhoea dont necessarily indicate a problem with the digestive 
system. 
C&G has also placed reliance upon the following extract from the vets records in March 
2022:
Owner rang in dog passed a motion last night jelly like and some blood dog is well 
inslef e/d and no other concerns advised owner ?clolitis dog has had some bowel 
irriation ? eaten something to upset it as well inself advised to monitor and if it happens 
again the contact the surgery to see the dog.(sic)
Its referred to this to argue that L was a colitis dog and as colitis is a condition, its 
therefore excluded from the policy.  However I interpret that note to say that the vet told Ms R that L might have colitis as hed 
had some bowel irritation, or he might have eaten something to upset him. I think its clear 
from the presence of question marks that the vet wasnt sure as to the cause of Ls vomiting 
and diarrhoea. Further, even if L were to have been diagnosed as having colitis in March 
2022, that doesnt evidence that he had it in 2019. There was no diagnosis made in 2019 as 
to why L had vomited then. I therefore dont accept C&Gs interpretation of the vets notes to 
be a reasonable ground to reject Ms Rs claim. 
My conclusion is that C&G hasnt provided sufficient evidence of a connection between Ls 
vomiting and diarrhoea in March 2022 and his vomiting in 2019.  I consider that it was unfair 
and unreasonable for C&G to have added the endorsement upon which it seeks to rely to 
decline Ms Rs claim. Im therefore going to require C&G to settle it.
I also consider that C&Gs handling of Ms Rs claim and her complaint has caused her 
considerable trouble and upset for which £100 compensation is justified.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1) to settle Ms Rs claim subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy. If Ms R 
has already paid the vet any part of the sum claimed, this should be reimbursed to her.
2) to pay Ms R interest on any sum so paid to her by way of reimbursement at the simple 
rate of 8% from the date she made payment to the date that payment is made to her. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R 
how much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3) to pay Ms R compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman