DRN-2598472
The complaint
Mrs F feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
products she purchased from a salon with a finance agreement.
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs F entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods. The goods were 
supplied by a salon and paid for through credit provided by Etika. This was a fixed sum loan 
agreement for a total repayable amount of £700 to be repaid over twenty-four months. She 
signed the agreement electronically.
Mrs F says that soon after taking the products they didnt agree with her skin. So she wanted 
to get out of the agreement by returning the goods. But she discovered that the salon from 
which she got them from had closed. 
So she spoke to Etika who said she had to pay the outstanding amount. So she complained 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But Etika felt it had done nothing wrong. 
So she complained to this Service.
Our investigator felt that Mrs F had tried to cancel within fourteen days of entering the 
contract so should only pay for that amount of product which she had used. But Etika didnt 
agree. So it came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier in February 2021 to which both parties have since 
responded. Etika saying it agreed with my provisional decision and Mrs F making some 
additional comments regarding my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs F raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where 
goods are provided.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs F has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Etika in this case). To gain protection under Section 75 there are 
certain conditions that have to be met before considering whether there has been a breach 
of contract or a material misrepresentation. I think the conditions are made out in this case.
Our Investigator felt on balance that Mrs F had tried to cancel the agreement within fourteen 
days of taking it out (10 December 2018) as is available in the terms of the agreement. But 
Etika didnt agree. In my provisional decision I explained my reasoning for thinking that Mrs 
F hadnt actually tried to cancel within the fourteen days of taking out the agreement. I note 
that in Mrs Fs representations after my provisional decision she has not contested my 
overall position on this particular matter at all or any of the arguments I put forward for 
thinking that shed not cancelled within the fourteen days. Accordingly I find that she didnt 
try to cancel within fourteen days and so the arguments I made in my provisional decision on 
this particular matter do not need to be revisited here.
Ive considered the invoice from the salon. And it seems clear from this invoice and the 
evidence available that Mrs F received all the goods she was going to get under the 
agreement made. So I dont think she was unfairly misrepresented into an agreement shed 
otherwise not have entered. And Im not persuaded the salon has breached the agreement 
on this issue. So I dont think Etika need to do any more here.
Mrs F has said that the products affected her skin negatively. Both Etika and this service has 
asked Mrs F to provide medical evidence to support what she says. She says she self-
diagnosed and on the basis of that stopped using the product. Having said that she has told 
this service that she used the products for some time before she says that there was a 
problem.
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality and 
that satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would think is satisfactory quality in the 
circumstances. Mrs F was provided with goods to use and to administer herself. So the 
amounts used, regularity of application and other considerations regarding the administering 
of these products were at Mrs Fs discretion. 
This service has also asked Mrs F for such medical evidence, but Mrs F hasnt provided it. 
So I dont think Etika has treated Mrs F unfairly on this issue. I should add for clarity that 
even if Mrs Fs arguments had been made out here, this Service cannot award for loss of 
amenity. So if she feels she has suffered such a loss then she should take independent legal 
advice on that specific matter.
Following my provisional decision Mrs F has reiterated her views on the negative impact on 
her skin. But she hasnt provided any supporting evidence despite having been asked to do 
so by all parties. I do not consider that Mrs F has raised any new arguments in response to 
my provisional decision. Accordingly I find that Etika has treated her fairly regarding the 
quality of the goods.
Mrs F also said that the salon would be in touch later for a follow up meeting. But based on 
the paperwork available I dont think such follow ups were something Mrs F had paid for. So 
I dont think she lost out because of this.
Summary
In short, Ive considered everything that Mrs F has said. I appreciate how Mrs F feels about 
the whole situation. However, I dont think what Etika has done with regard to the Section 75 
has meant that Mrs F has been treated unfairly by it. Im not persuaded she was materially 
misrepresented into entering the contract or that it was breached. And on balance Im not 
persuaded that the goods supplied were of an unsatisfactory quality. So Etika can ask Mrs F 
to honour the agreement made. Accordingly I do not uphold this complaint by Mrs F.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Etika Finance UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman