DRN-3143915
The complaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt raise a chargeback for him.
What happened
Mr K says he bought items from a business I will call H in January 2021 for over £3,000. 
He says the wrong items were sent to him and says H agreed to refund him but did not do 
so. Mr K says he asked Metro to raise a chargeback in April 2021, but it didnt do so and 
again asked it in July 2021.He says Metro told him the chargeback request was made too 
late.
Metro says Mr K asked it to raise a chargeback in July 2021 for a purchase that took place in 
early January 2021. It says the 120-day time limit set by the card provider had passed and 
so couldnt raise a chargeback. Metro says it has no record of an earlier request.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Metro was entitled to reject Mr Ks chargeback request as it was outside the 120-day 
rule. The investigator also explained the chargeback rules and didnt think Metros account 
notes made any mention of the chargeback request being made earlier. And didnt think Mr 
K mentioned to Metro in any of the calls between the parties that he had asked for a 
chargeback to be raised in April 2021.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and following my request for further information from him says 
the dispute was not initially clear as he was still in discussions with H. He says the dispute 
only arose when the credit wasnt processed and maintains he did tell Metro in April 2021 he 
wished a chargeback to be raised. Mr K will not give us permission to speak to H about what 
took place and what the current position is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr K appreciates that a chargeback is not a right, but a voluntary scheme run by 
the card providers not Metro. And it is the card providers that set the rules about the time 
limits. We would normally expect a business to raise a chargeback if there were reasonable 
grounds for doing so. The key part of this complaint is the relevance of those time limits and 
if Metro acted fairly by concluding Mr Ks chargeback request was outside the time limits.
The cardholder, in this complaint, rules say a chargeback must be raised within 120 days. 
Im satisfied that having looked at Metros records that Mr K asked it to raise a chargeback in 
July 2021 which was over 150 days from the purchase and delivery of the wrong items. So, 
Im satisfied that Metro was reasonably entitled to reject Mr Ks chargeback request as it was 
made outside of the time limits for doing so and that Metro was obliged to follow those time 
limits.
I appreciate Mr K says he asked Metro to have raised the chargeback in April 2021 which 
would have been within the 120-day rule period. I have looked carefully at Metros records 
and I cant see any reference to such a request. And I cant see that Mr K has been able to 
provide any evidence that the chargeback was raised such as an acknowledgement from 
Metro or a reference number. Im also satisfied that Mr K made no reference to having raised 
a chargeback request during the many telephone calls between the parties. I would have 
expected some reference to that earlier request if made. So, I think on balance that the 
chargeback request was made in July 2021 and not April 2021 which means it was made 
outside of the time limits for doing so.
I also appreciate Mr K says he was within the time limits for bringing a chargeback request 
under the credit not processed category. But I think he was still outside the time limits for 
doing so as its not clear when H first agreed to refund him as it appears that was also in 
January 2021. And I have seen an e-mail from H dated 24 February 2021 agreeing to a 
refund. So even taking that later date Im satisfied that means the chargeback request was 
made outside of the time limits in July 2021.
Overall, Im satisfied that Metro was reasonably entitled to conclude that it couldnt proceed 
with Mr Ks chargeback as it was brought too late.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman