DRN-3394397
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against her. 
Background
In January 2020, Santander wrote to Miss B to inform her that her account had been referred 
to its investigation team for review and as a result of its investigation it had taken the 
decision to close her account with immediate effect. 
Miss B was unhappy and complained. Santander looked at Miss Bs complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss B remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service. After 
learning that Santander had also recorded a fraud prevention marker against her as a result 
of its investigation into her account, Miss B also asked us to consider this matter too. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns. He thought that Santander had 
reasonable grounds to close Miss Bs account. But he didnt think that Santander had done 
enough to show that Miss B was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against her. Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss B is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss B was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving any fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might 
be, illegitimate payments. This can include Miss B allowing someone else to use her account 
in order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Bs account and that she was 
complicit in this. Its important to note Santander had to have enough evidence to meet both 
parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered everything, Santander appears to be arguing that its systems flagged            
Miss Bs account had been in receipt of funds, which had previously been reported as 
fraudulent. In other words, Miss Bs account ended up as the eventual destination of funds 
that had been previously been reported as having been fraudulently transferred to someone 
else. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Bs account permitted Santander to close it without notice 
where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal 
activities Given fraudulent funds had found their way to Miss Bs account, I think that 
Santander was reasonably entitled to suspect fraud may have taken place and legitimately 
entitled to reach the conclusion that there was an immediate risk in keeping Miss Bs 
account open. Therefore, I think that Santander was entitled to block and close Miss Bs 
account in the way that it did.
That said, even though Santander may have had reasonable grounds for concern about the 
usage on Miss Bs account and this was enough to justify its closure, it doesnt automatically 
follow that Santander was entitled to register a fraud prevention marker. This is because in 
order to fairly record a fraud marker Santander not only needs to have sufficient evidence to 
show that fraud may have taken place, it also has to have sufficient evidence to show that 
Miss B was complicit in any fraud that took place. And I dont think that Santander has that 
here.
Santander has said that when Miss B was asked about these payments she said that she 
allowed a family friend who was staying with her, at the time, to receive payments from his 
sister into her account and let him use her card to withdraw the funds. Miss B said that she 
eventually asked the family friend to leave after she found out he was stealing from her. 
Ive thought about what Miss B has told Santander and there isnt anything Ive seen in the 
evidence provided which directly contradicts what she said. There are regular credits into 
Miss Bs account from the parties who sent the funds in question and which elicited 
Santanders suspicion. But theres no suggestion that all of the funds transferred were 
fraudulent. So it seems entirely possible to me that Miss B was allowing someone she knew 
to receive payments from someone else she knew  for example, allowing a family friend to 
receive payments from his sister.
More importantly it is Santanders responsibility to demonstrate that Miss B was knowingly 
ad dishonestly part of any fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Santander 
needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the 
police. In other words, reasonable grounds for concluding that Miss B acted dishonestly 
when she allowed her account to be used because she knew the funds in question were 
fraudulent. 
Simply pointing out that fraud may have taken place, sometime earlier in the sequence of 
events, just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as 
Miss Bs version of events here appears to be plausible. Furthermore, there isnt anything to support Miss B having made a financial gain either. So Id question why shed knowingly 
participate in a fraud where she didnt benefit.
Overall and having considered everything, while I think that Santander had sufficient 
grounds to close Miss Bs account, I dont think that it had sufficient evidence to meet the 
test for recording a fraud marker against her. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for 
Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im 
upholding Miss Bs complaint and Santander needs to any and all fraud markers it has 
recorded against her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc 
should remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded it has recorded against Miss B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman