DRN-3225057
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the way in which Nationwide Building Society handled her section 75 
claim.
What happened
Mrs F booked a cruise in March 2019, the total cost of which was $(US)39,590. She paid a 
deposit towards the total cost using her Nationwide credit card.
Subsequently in May 2019 Mrs F was told that part of the cruise couldnt be provided as 
originally advertised. She requested a refund of her deposit and the supplier agreed to do 
this within 90 days. The supplier subsequently stopped trading and entered into liquidation.
As she hadnt received a refund of her deposit as expected, Mrs F raised the issue with 
Nationwide in October 2019. It asked her to complete a section 75 claim form. Over the 
subsequent months Mrs F and Nationwide spoke a number of times about the claim, but 
ultimately in March 2020 Nationwide said that it couldnt help because the total cost of the 
purchase was over the limits imposed by section 75. It also said that it couldnt attempt a 
chargeback for Mrs Fs deposit as her contact was made outside of the required time limit.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mrs F raised a complaint. She was dissatisfied with 
the outcome of her claim, specifically because she believed that her claim for the deposit 
paid was within the required limits, as well as the time it had taken which she said had 
caused her unnecessary worry.
Nationwide reiterated that it didnt believe Mrs Fs claim had met the necessary requirements 
for a successful section 75 or chargeback claim. It apologised for the time it had taken to 
look into the claim.
Mrs F referred a complaint to our service. In summary, she said that she believed the 
deposit she had paid fell within the section 75 limits and that Nationwides handling of the 
claim had been unnecessarily stressful and worrying. She pointed out that other customers 
had received refunds from their banks.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Nationwide had reached 
the right outcome regarding Mrs Fs section 75 and chargeback claims. She accepted that 
Nationwide couldve handled the claims better, and that wouldve been frustrating for Mrs F, 
but she concluded that Mrs Fs claims hadnt been affected by any delays, so she didnt think 
Nationwide needed to do anything further. She also accepted Mrs Fs evidence that other 
customers may have received refunds, but was satisfied that Nationwide had reached the 
correct outcome in the specific circumstances of this case.
Mrs F disagreed. She remained dissatisfied with Nationwides handling of the claim and 
questioned how it had calculated that her section 75 claim was over the limit. She asked for 
an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the case. In summary, I said;
In order to have a valid claim under section 75, certain requirements need to be met. If they 
are, then section 75 makes Nationwide responsible for a breach of contract in respect of 
goods or services paid for using its credit card. One of those requirements is that the claim 
must relate to a single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price of over £100 but 
not more than £30,000.
In this case, Mrs F booked a cruise for herself as well as one other person. The terms and 
conditions which accompanied the booking said that the person named first on the 
agreement would contract for each subsequent person. In this case, the contracting party 
was Mrs F, as she is named first on the invoice.
The invoice Mrs F has provided shows that the cruise consisted of a number of elements 
with a total cash price of $(US)39,590. I understand that Mrs F only wanted to claim for the 
deposit, but whether something can be considered via section 75 is dependent on the total 
cash price the supplier has attached to the transaction, not the value of part payments 
toward that price such as the deposit.
Establishing whether that amount exceeds the section 75 limit of £30,000 isnt straight 
forward, as the contract was priced in US dollars. Additionally, theres a question over which 
date the conversion should be made to establish the cash value  the booking date of 15 
March 2019 or the date the deposit was paid on 25 March 2019. In either case, the VISA 
exchange rate  an indicative rate of the position of the market on any given day  was such 
that the total contract price would exceed £30,000.
Additionally, any indicative exchange rates would not have been available to Mrs F in 
making the purchase. The rate available to her, and consequently the rates which wouldve 
dictated the cash price of the purchase, were those commercially available to Mrs F, which, 
in general, tend to be less favourable to consumers than any indicative rates.
The suppliers invoice said that Mrs F would need to pay a deposit of $(US)7,918.00. The 
amount charged to Mrs Fs credit card was £6,081.23. To complicate matters, it seems that 
the deposit was paid to a company acting on behalf of the supplier in Canada, and as such 
the exchange rate used was for Canadian dollars. But using the rate applied here, assuming 
the whole contract wouldve been paid in Canadian Dollars, if Mrs F had paid the total 
contract price on the same day she paid the deposit using her Nationwide credit card, it 
would have exceeded £30,000.
I accept its possible that Mrs F may not have chosen to pay the remaining balance using her 
Nationwide credit card, and its possible she could have found a better exchange rate than 
the one Nationwide offered. But taking into account a range of rates which could have been 
available to Mrs F, as well as general trend of movements in exchange rates around the 
time, I havent been able to find an exchange rate, whether Canadian or American dollars, 
which would mean that the amount paid by Mrs F would come under the required threshold. 
As a result, Im satisfied that Mrs Fs claim exceeds the section 75 limit, and so Nationwide 
acted fairly by turning down Mrs Fs claim.
In addition to considering Mrs Fs rights under section 75 I wouldve expected Nationwide to 
have considered whether Mrs F had any rights under the chargeback scheme. The notes 
Ive been presented shows that Nationwide considered this and concluded the claim would 
have been made too late.
Ive given careful thought to whether or not a chargeback claim wouldve had a prospect of 
success. In doing so Ive considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules in detail and 
sought clarification from Nationwide as to what it had considered in respect of this. Having done so, Im satisfied that if a chargeback had been presented it wouldve been out of time, 
so it would not have been successful.
Its understandable that Mrs F was frustrated with the time it took Nationwide to consider her 
section 75 claim. Especially as she raised the issue with Nationwide in October 2019 and 
didnt receive an outcome until early March 2020.
I think its fair to say that investigating a section 75 or chargeback claim isnt straight forward, 
due in the most part to the complexity of the associated legislation and rules. I think some 
back and forth about the details of the claim is inevitable and means it can take longer than 
expected sometimes. Given some of the complexities of this particular case, I dont think the 
outcome of Mrs Fs claim ought to have been obvious to Nationwide at the outset.
Nonetheless I accept it seems like Nationwide took a little longer than I wouldve expected it 
to on this occasion, particularly in terms of passing Mrs Fs claim to the relevant department 
to consider it. Overall, I agree it couldve handled things slightly better.
In Nationwides response to Mrs Fs complaint, it apologised for the time it had taken to 
review the claim and any inconvenience it had caused Mrs F. It also said that it had given 
feedback to the relevant area of the business. Taking into account that any delays didnt 
impact on the outcome of the claim, I think Nationwides apology for the time it took was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs F would be frustrated to find that other similar claims have been 
successful. But I dont know the details of those claims and Im only able to assess Mrs Fs 
specific complaint against Nationwide. And in respect of Mrs Fs claim, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide reached a fair outcome.
In conclusion, and whilst its not the outcome I expect Mrs F was hoping for, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide reached a fair outcome on Mrs Fs section 75 and chargeback claims. I accept 
that it took longer than Mrs F couldve reasonably expected to do so, but its done enough to 
put things right already by apologising for the delay. I sympathise greatly with the situation 
Mrs F now finds herself in, having paid for a service but not received it. But, Im limited to 
determining whether Nationwide reached a fair outcome in considering Mrs Fs section 75 
and chargeback claim, and for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied it did.
Both Mrs F and Nationwide responded to my provisional decision. Both parties said that they 
had nothing further to add.
The case has now been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has submitted any further evidence in response to my provisional decision. As 
a result, I find no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so, I now make those 
conclusions final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman