DRN-3138344
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in October 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Ikano didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her. (There was a form for entering the estimated benefits, but Mrs Cs 
copy is illegible.)
So I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs C fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs C from the solar panels 
over the four year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs C is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Ikano need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the four year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Cs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs C have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs C accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs C has settled the loan, Ikano should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mrs C has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and then Ikano must: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs C paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs C paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs C first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano must pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) must put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman