DRN-1587048
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limited. He isnt happy that 
validation checks were carried out after his policy started. And about the service it provided 
when he attempted a change of vehicle under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A took out his motor insurance policy through Hastings. A few weeks after taking out the 
policy he was asked to provide information in order that his policy could be validated. Mr A 
wasnt happy about this and thought that this information shouldve been requested before 
he took the policy out. And he was also unhappy about Hastings lack of response to his 
emails. When Mr A complained about this Hastings accepted that its service couldve been 
better and offered him £20 by way of compensation for its failure to respond to his emails in 
a timely manner.
Furthermore, when Mr A looked to place a new car on cover a few months into the policy he 
was disappointed to find out that the insurer would no longer cover him. He complained 
about this and about Hastings poor communication. Again, Hastings accepted that it got 
things wrong and that its customer service wasnt good enough. It offered him £100 
compensation, but Mr A remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She 
acknowledged that Hastings service couldve been better, but she thought that the £120 
(total) compensation seemed fair. She explained that it was unfortunate that Hastings wasnt 
able to arrange cover for his new car but that was out of its control.
As Mr A wasnt happy and wanted more compensation the matter has been passed to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that Hastings customer service couldve been better, but I think its 
offer of £120 compensation (total) seems fair. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr As frustration about the main part of his complaint. He was exchanging 
his car for a newer version of the same model and he expected to be able to simply swap 
insurance cover over. Unfortunately, his insurer wouldnt provide cover for his new car, and 
Mr A has advanced a complaint about that separately, which left him in the awkward position 
of having to arrange cover over the bank holiday weekend. 
While I can understand this, Hastings wasnt responsible for the decision not to allow cover 
so I cant hold it responsible for this. And had Mr A have made contact earlier to discuss the 
change in car he wouldve had more time to arrange cover for his new car before taking 
delivery. I know the car is similar, but a few years newer, but many things can impact an 
insurers decision to provide cover and although I can understand why Mr A thought it would 
be a straight swap that isnt always the case.
Turning to the service Hastings provided I agree it couldve done a bit more to get the 
information needed to explain why his new car wouldnt be covered. But this wouldnt have 
helped Mr A get his car insured. But it mustve been frustrating to not get a clear answer 
about this; and to have to wait hours on the phone; and for a manager not to have called him 
back when it had been agreed that they would. But I think £100 is a fair amount of 
compensation for this. I know Mr A would like more and asked for an apology, which 
Hastings provided, but I think Hastings has acted reasonably here. 
Finally, I know Mr A thought that Hastings shouldve validated his details before the policy 
started. But insurers often undertake checks during the early stages of a policy and can 
undertake checks at any time during the policy year, so I dont think it acted unreasonably. 
And it paid a further £20 compensation as it was slow in dealing with emails which seems 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So, although I can understand Mr As frustration and confusion I think Hastings has acted 
fairly in paying £120 compensation (total) and providing a letter of apology. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman