DRN-2300286
The complaint
Ms H complains that Brent Shine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank 
(MCB) took too long to process her request for the withdrawal of her savings from a fixed 
term account. 
What happened
Ms H reinvested her savings into a one-year fixed rate savings account with MCB on 4 
March 2019. This account paid an interest rate of 2.1%, and the interest was calculated 
daily, paid at account maturity. This means that MCB paid the total interest calculated over 
the year on its maturity on 4 March 2020. 
MCB emailed Ms H on 9 March 2020 to tell her that the account had matured. They asked 
her if she wanted to withdraw the funds, or to invest them in another fixed term account. As 
the account had matured, it wasnt accruing any interest at this time. The money was 
essentially in a holding account. 
MCB didnt hear from Ms H, so they emailed her on 16 March to ask what she wanted to do 
with the funds. 
Ms H says that she asked MCB to withdraw the funds from the account when she called 
them on 16 March 2020, but she didnt receive these until 26 March. Ms H says that she 
wanted to change her nominated bank account for the funds to be paid into, but MCB asked 
her for evidence to be able to do this. Ms H says that MCB took too long to change her 
nominated account, she had to chase them for this to happen and then they delayed in 
sending her the funds. Ms H is unhappy that when MCB did send her the funds, they didnt 
acknowledge the delay and didnt offer her any compensation until she complained. 
Ms H says she lost out on an opportunity to save the funds in another account at a high 
interest rate, and that the delay caused her inconvenience as she uses her savings to help 
her with her care costs. 
When Ms H complained to MCB about the delay, they accepted that 7 days had elapsed. 
They paid Ms H a total of £50. This was £20.37 in lost interest, and £29.63 as a goodwill 
gesture which was offered after Ms H told MCB she wasnt happy with their interest offer. 
MCB have calculated the lost interest at a rate of 2.1% for 7 days on Ms Hs account 
balance. The £50 has been paid by MCB to Ms H. 
Unhappy with this, Ms H brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Ms H, but she didnt think that MCB needed to do anything further to put things 
right. Our investigator noted that MCBs call notes showed that Ms H called on 18 March 
2020 and said that she wanted to change her nominated bank account but wasnt yet sure 
what she wanted to do with the funds. Our investigator felt that the request to withdraw the 
funds wasnt made until Ms H emailed MCB requesting this on 23 March. As the withdrawal 
was completed on 26 March, our investigator didnt think there had been a delay. She noted 
that even if there had been a delay, she thought that MCB had done enough to compensate 
Ms H for it. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator. Ms H says that MCB should have released her funds 
to her on 16 March 2020. Because they didnt, they should pay her 8% interest on the value 
of her savings with them, plus the value of her savings held elsewhere as she was unable to 
move both amounts to a higher paying account because of the delay. She would also like 
8% simple interest on this calculation, to compensate her for being without this money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive only included a summary of the complaint above, but Ive considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
There is a difference between when Ms H says she first asked MCB to withdraw her funds 
on 16 March 2020, and when the notes from MCBs system show that Ms H first asked to 
withdraw her funds on 23 March 2020. I cant be sure of what was said in the early phone 
calls as MCB werent recording phone calls at that time. But it seems likely that, because Ms 
H wanted to change her nominated account that the funds would be sent to, even if shed 
made a withdrawal request on 16 March, it wouldnt have been possible until the nominated 
account had been changed. 
Ms H is unhappy that MCB asked her for account statements to change her nominated 
account as the requirement for this isnt in her terms and conditions. I find its reasonable for 
MCB to have completed some verification checks on a change of account. This helps to 
secure Ms Hs funds and prevent fraudulent activity. 
Ms H did send her account statements to MCB on 18 March. When she didnt hear anything, 
she called them on 23 March and they initially asked for the account statement again. Once 
they were located, they confirmed that the account would be changed. This is when Ms H 
made the written request to withdraw her funds. I find that MCB could have acted sooner on 
Ms Hs request to change her nominated account, and this is the main cause of the delay in 
Ms Hs funds being released to her. 
MCB took three days to process the withdrawal request, with the funds being released on 26 
March. I dont think its unreasonable for processing to take a couple of days in ordinary 
circumstances, and particularly during this period as MCB were relocating their staff for 
remote working as a result of Covid-19. 
MCB accepted in their complaint response to Ms H that there had been a seven-day delay. I 
agree that if theyd dealt with Ms Hs request to change her nominated account in good time, 
she likely wouldve received her funds around seven days earlier than she did. 
So, Ive gone on to think about the impact this had on Ms H. I know that Ms H feels that MCB 
should pay her lost interest at a rate of 8%, and that it should be higher than the rate she 
was receiving on the account because they made a mistake. Its the role of our service to 
reach a fair resolution between the parties, not to punish a business when things go wrong. 
If MCB hadnt made the mistake, then Ms H would likely have earned no more than the 2.1% 
rate of interest she was earning on the previous fixed term account. I say this because the 
general trend for savings account interest rates has been downwards, and MCBs offering at 
the time of another 12-month fixed rate at 1.5% is in line with this. 
I cant say for sure what rate Ms H may have been able to earn on her funds elsewhere, 
particularly as she may have had more buying power if joining the funds from this account 
with another relatively large sum from another account. But, all things considered, I find that 
the total sum of £50 paid by MCB is, in the round, enough to cover any interest that Ms H could have earned on her funds had she received them sooner, and for the inconvenience of 
having to contact MCB to sort out her withdrawal. 
Where this service makes a monetary award, it may consider adding 8% interest to that 
award. This is generally to compensate a consumer for being without funds that should have 
been paid to them. It is intended to cover the cost of borrowing money, or on lost 
opportunities to invest that money. In this case, the loss that Ms H has suffered is interest 
that she would have earned, not money that would have been freely available to her to make 
more interest on. So, I dont think that an interest award is reasonable here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Brent Shine Credit Union Limited 
trading as My Community Banks existing payment of £50 to Ms H is a fair way to resolve the 
complaint and I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman