DRN-3454718
The complaint
Mr S has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with Marbles in July 2017. His credit limit was initially 
£450. In January 2018 his credit limit was increased to £1,200.
 
Mr S, through his representative, says that Marbles shouldnt have allowed him to open an 
account and it shouldnt have increased his credit limit once it had. Mr S says he was 
struggling to meet his repayments and had a lot of credit elsewhere, too. He says if Marbles 
had done adequate checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his balance in a reasonable length of time.
 
Marbles says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr S and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr S  and when it increased his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ss complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the credit given to Mr S was acceptable, but that by January 2018 when Marbles increased 
Mr Ss credit limit, that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Mr Ss 
finances were overextended and that he couldnt afford to sustainably meet the repayments 
on more credit. 
Our adjudicator said that Marbles should not have allowed Mr S further credit and thought 
that any interest and charges applied over his original £450 limit should be removed and his 
account re-worked. 
Marbles disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain.
As Marbles disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ss complaint.
Marbles needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Marbles should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Ss income, the total amount Mr S borrowed, and the length of time Mr S 
had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mr S opened his account Marbles conducted a credit check. Marbles told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, 
I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Marbles to 
have approved the account. Marbles asked about Mr Ss income and the amount of 
unsecured debt he had. Marbles also says it did a check with a credit reference agency. 
These checks showed Mr S had an income of £11,000 and unsecured debt of £1,300, with 
no arrears or defaults or payday loans showing on his credit file.
 
I think this suggests that the original limit of £450 was manageable for Mr S. There were no 
signs of financial distress and he had relatively low levels of debt, even when taking into 
account his relatively low income. So I dont think Marbles did anything wrong with its 
original lending decision.
However, I think that when Marbles made the decision to increase Mr Ss credit limit to 
£1,200 in January 2018 things were rather different for Mr S. While Marbles says it did not 
see any arrears, defaults or active payday loans in its checks I dont think this is all it should 
have relied on at this point.
In the six months prior to January 2018 the number of credit accounts Mr S held had 
increased from six to 13. His available credit had increased substantially during that time and 
his overall debt balance stood at over £4,500  about half his annual net income. He had 
also missed a repayment on another credit line in the month before and had been over his 
limit on his Marbles account. Marbles has not explained that it actively took this information 
into account.
So while Mr S wasnt in arrears with Marble and he hadnt defaulted on any credit at that 
point, I think Marble should have been concerned about the affordability of an increase in 
credit and the sustainability of the repayments he could make. Such checks would have 
allowed Marbles to calculate that if he used all of his available credit the minimum 
repayments would have been around £400 a month  a significant proportion of his net 
income.
 
I think that proportionate checks would have revealed to Marbles that is was inappropriate to 
increase his limit as to do so would have made the repayments unsustainable. So, I think Mr 
S lost out as a result of Marbles failure to do this. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Marbles should have increased Mr Ss credit limit from £450, I dont think
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit.
However, Mr S has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think
he should pay this back. Therefore, Marbles should:Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £450 from 19 January 2018.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Marbles should also remove all adverse information recorded
after 19 January 2018 regarding this account from Mr Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £450, Marbles should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once
Mr S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded
after 19 January 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit
file.
As Marbles has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.

*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marbles to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
I am aware that Mr S has been- and may still be  in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. 
We have tried to establish whether the insolvency practitioner may have an interest in any 
refund but we havent been able to do so. If Mr S is still in an IVA he will have to declare any 
redress to the insolvency practitioner.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman