DRN-3272592
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr D was approved for a £2,000 loan on 27 May 2016 with monthly repayments of £121.47 
over 24 months. The total charge for the credit was around £915. A default notice was sent 
to Mr D in February 2019 and the outstanding balance debt was sold to a third party on 
15 December 2020. 
Mr D complained to Avant and received its final response letter in which it did not uphold his 
complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Avant had information from 
its own searches which showed that the total amount Mr D was going to have to pay monthly  
to cover existing credit commitments (plus the Avant loan) would have been about 29% of 
his total income  around £1,312 each month. That plus the relatively recent defaults which 
showed on the credit search results Avant carried out (copies of which have been sent to us) 
led her to think that Avant should put things right for Mr D in relation to this loan. She felt 
there was enough evidence available to Avant to demonstrate that Mr D had had difficulty 
managing his money. 
Avant disagreed and in its defence of the loan approval and complaint it set out the figures it 
had assessed and used. It said: 
 the customer would be paying £393 from their income each month, which is 30%, 
after being funded the Avant loan we would see this at £515 per month, which is 39% 
of their income.
The customer with the expenses factored in would have a remaining disposable 
income of £96 for any additional expenses that occurred in the month.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr D  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr D. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr D undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Having reviewed the credit search results Avant obtained in May 2016, then I can see that 
there are historic records showing serious defaults and many accounts that Mr D had not 
paid off. But more relevant are the ones closer in time to May 2016  Mr D had several 
defaulted accounts just before May 2016. 
Avant has demonstrated with its own recent submissions the figures it had and knew about 
when calculating the affordability for Mr D.
And at the forefront of my mind is that the loan Mr D was committed to was for 24 months at 
over £121 a month. And to leave me D with remaining disposable income of £96 for any 
additional expenses that occurred in the month is far too low in my opinion.Avant knew this and lent anyway and so I consider that it lent to Mr D when it was relatively 
clear that he was not going to be able to afford the regular repayments for the whole length 
of the term. Alternatively, there was a real risk that he could not pay the debt to Avant 
sustainably meaning repay without undue difficulties - on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
So, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Putting things right
Avants records (sent to us) show that the outstanding debt was sold to a third party and so 
Avant should buy this back if able to do so and then take the following steps. If Avant is not 
able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr D as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
outstanding loan. If this results in him having made overpayments then Avant should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be used to 
repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Avant 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. Avant shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off  if applicable.
E) Remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ds credit file about the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr D 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct that AvantCredit of UK, LLC  
does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman