DRN-1106256
The complaint
Mrs S complains about loans she took out with Lainhead Limited (trading as Cash 
Recycle). 
What happened
Mrs S took out loans with Cash Recycle, a pawnbroker. Mrs S says Cash Recycle acted 
irresponsibly in lending to her. Further, Cash Recycle werent sympathetic to her situation 
and didnt help her, whilst she struggled to repay interest due to financial difficulty. Mrs S 
would like the interest on the loan to be refunded. Mrs S also complains that Cash Recycle 
sold some items, returned the wrong item to her and made errors in respect of her 
husbands account. Mrs S is upset that Cash Recycle made different decisions about when 
they would lend to her.
Cash Recycle say that the terms of the loan agreements were clear. Mrs S chose to renew 
the loans and Cash Recycle held the items for longer at Mrs S request, despite not being 
required to do so under the terms of the agreements. Cash Recycle say no items were sold 
and Mrs S hasnt lost out. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. She explained that 
she could only consider matters relating to Mrs S within her view. Our investigator thought 
Cash Recycle had undertaken an affordability assessment by reference to the items Mrs S 
was seeking to pawn and the details on the loan agreements were clear as to how much 
was being lent and on what terms. Our investigator empathised that the items held 
sentimental value for Mrs S and explained that if the items were sold for more than the 
outstanding loan, Mrs S would have received the difference. Also if the wrong items had 
been returned to Mrs S, there was nothing to show that she had lost out.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the terms of the loans which set out the item in pawn, the amount of credit and 
amount of interest. Given these terms and Mrs S past experience with like loans, Im 
satisfied that she understood the risk of the items being sold if the terms of the loans were 
not adhered to. Its clear that the items were important to Mrs S and I understand there was 
a sentimental attachment to them. But Ive had to take into account that Mrs S chose to enter 
into these agreements; theres no suggestion of undue influence here. 
Mrs S says she was treated unfairly by Cash Recycle. As to affordability, the assessment of 
creditworthiness is linked to the value of the item being pawned. Here Cash Recycle say that 
Mrs S liability under the loans didnt exceed the true market value of the items she pawned. 
Mrs S has queried the value placed on the items by Cash Recycle and raised concern that 
she would lose out if they were sold, but I havent seen anything to show that the valuation was unreliable. Under the terms of the agreements, Cash Recycle would have refunded any 
excess to Mrs S if the item achieved a higher price than her liabilities under the loan 
agreement. And even if the item had achieved less in a sale, the business wouldnt have 
asked Mrs S for the difference. So I cant fairly say it was irresponsible to lend to     Mrs S.
Ive seen that Cash Recycle wrote to Mrs S explaining when the agreements would end and 
setting out her options either to redeem the item by repaying the loan or to renew the loan. 
The letters explained that if payment wasnt made, the item would be sold and appropriate 
notice was given about this. Mrs S said to our investigator that she felt she had paid a lot of 
interest over the years but Ive had to balance that against Mrs S choice to extend the loans 
rather than elect to have the items sold to pay off the balance.
Cash Recycle say Mrs S didnt inform them that she was in financial difficulty before the 
complaint came to our service but in the past they had held onto items for an additional 
period at Mrs S request. Ive seen that when a ticket was due to expire at the end of June 
2019 for one loan, Cash Recycle wrote to Mrs S again, giving notice and setting out her 
options. Mrs S asked for an extension of time. Cash Recycle extended the notice period 
from 28 June 2019 to 20 July 2019 at Mrs S request and agreed to hold onto the pledged 
item until that later time. I think that was fair and reasonable and it supports Cash Recycles 
assertion that they did take steps to try to assist Mrs S when she asked them to do so. On 
balance, I cant say Cash Recycle did anything wrong here. 
Mrs S says she feels shes been dealt with unfairly in the past as for a period of time the 
business wouldnt lend to her. As our investigator has explained, its a commercial decision 
for a lender to decide whether or not to engage in business with a consumer. I appreciate 
Mrs S disappointment, but Cash Recycle were entitled to make these decisions.
Mrs S also believes that she was given back the wrong item on one occasion. The details 
here are vague and I havent seen anything to show that a mistake was made but even if it 
was, Mrs S hasnt said she lost out as a result of it.
Mrs S has said the business sold sentimental items in the past. But theres nothing to 
support this and Cash Recycle say no items held in their possession have been sold.
Mrs S also says that an agreement with her husband was renewed in her name but again I 
havent seen anything to support this.  Mrs S also says that dealing with Cash Recycle has 
affected her husbands credit-rating. As our investigator has explained, concerns about a 
different consumer are a separate matter; this decision only addresses the complaint 
brought by Mrs S.
I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed, but I wont be upholding this complaint, so Cash 
Recycle do not need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman