DRN-4149993
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss A took out the following loans with HSBC:
Loan 1 June 2016 £7500 over 48 months
Loan 2 March 2017 £12,000 over 60 months
Loan 3 August 2017 £15,000 over 24 months
Loan 4 June 2018 £13,570 over 36 months
Miss A complained that HSBC had lent irresponsibly. She said that HSBC failed to carry out 
proper checks before lending to her.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks before 
lending to Miss A and that the checks showed the loans to be affordable.
Miss A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in relation to Loans 3 and 4. They said that HSBC had 
information which indicated that Miss A was increasing her overall level of indebtedness and 
that further lending was unsustainable.
HSBC didnt agree. It said it had carried out a full affordability assessment which showed 
that Miss A had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, HSBC needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Miss A could afford to repay what was being lent. Theres no set list of checks 
that a lender has to complete, but the checks need to take into account factors such as the 
amount of the loan, the amount of the repayments and the borrowers financial 
circumstances.
Ive thought about whether HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for each 
loan. Ive looked at the information HSBC obtained from Miss A when she applied for the 
loans and the information it obtained from the checks it carried out.
Loan 1
Miss A declared income of £55.000 when she applied for the loan. HSBC validated this as 
being within the normal range based on Miss As age, employment status and demographic 
information.
HSBC carried out an affordability assessment using an industry tool which modelled 
essential monthly spending such as utility and household expenses. HSBC also carried out a 
credit search to find out about Miss As existing credit commitments. 
HSBC calculated that Miss A had net monthly income of £3,131 and monthly expenses and 
credit commitments totalling £997. HSBC felt that Miss As disposable income was sufficient 
to afford the loan repayments of £166.84.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable and 
proportionate to decide whether Miss A would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to land was fair. Based on the information Ive 
seen about Miss As income and expenditure each month. Im satisfied that Miss A had 
sufficient monthly disposable income to maintain the loan repayments after all her other 
financial commitments had been met. Theres nothing in the information Ive seen to suggest 
that Miss A was experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the loan application.
Loan 2
Miss A declared income of £49,678 when she applied for the loan. HSBC verified this 
income using a third party tool and calculated it to be £2,887 per month.
HSBC carried out an affordability assessment using an affordability tool and carried out a 
credit search. It calculated that Miss A had monthly expenses of £938. HSBC felt that Miss 
As disposable income was sufficient to afford the loan repayments of £217.
Ive thought about whether the checks were reasonable and proportionate. Miss A had 
agreed Loan 1 just 9 months earlier. She advised HSBC that the purpose of Loan 2 was 
debt consolidation, which included consolidation of the balance under Loan 1. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to land was fair. Based on the information Ive 
seen about Miss As income and expenditure each month. Im satisfied that Miss A had 
sufficient monthly disposable income to maintain the loan repayments after all her other 
financial commitments had been met. Theres nothing in the information Ive seen to suggest 
that Miss A was experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the loan application.
Loan 3
Miss A declared income of £49,700 when she applied for the loan. HSBC verified this by 
looking at the credit turnover in Miss As HSBC current account.
HSBC calculated that Miss A had monthly income of £2925. It carried out an affordability 
assessment using an industry tool and carried out a credit search. HSBC calculated that 
Miss A had monthly expenses of £885, It felt that Miss As disposable income was sufficient 
to afford the loan repayment of £647.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable and 
proportionate. Loan 2 had been agreed around 10 months earlier. The purpose of Loan 3 Was debt consolidation, which included around £14,100 of debt with HSBC and around 
£1700 with another lender.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. I say 
this because a pattern was starting to emerge where Miss A applied for repeated 
consolidation loans within a relatively short period of time. Miss As debt had increased from 
£7200 at the time of Loan 1 to £15,800 at the time of Loan 3. This was a significant increase 
in debt in a short period of time. I think this should have given HSBC cause for concern. It 
wouldve been proportionate for HSBC to carry out further checks to verify Miss As income 
and expenditure.
I cant be sure of what further checks HSBC wouldve carried out. Ive looked at the 
information Miss A has provided about her financial circumstances at the time. The bank 
statements show that Miss As monthly expenditure was higher than estimated by HSBC. 
But the most concerning thing, as Ive said above, was the significant increase in Miss As 
unsecured debt. The amount of income that Miss A was using to repay debt had increased 
significantly and was at a level which made it unlikely that she would be able to sustainably 
repay the loan without borrowing again.
Because of this I dont think the decision to approve Loan 3 was fair.
Loan 4
Miss A applied for a further consolidation loan around 10 months after Loan 3 was agreed. 
Ive already explained why I think HSBC shouldve been concerned at the pattern of 
repeated consolidation loans. So for the same reasons as with Loan 3 I think it wouldve 
been proportionate for HSBC to carry out further checks.
Ive reviewed the information about Miss As circumstances at the time of Loan 4. Although 
her repayment to HSBC would be decreasing, the overall picture is one of a high level of 
debt repayment as a proportion of income. I dont think the lending decision was fair.
Putting things right
Miss A has had the benefit of the money shes borrowed, and I think its fair that she repays 
this. But I think HSBC should refund the interest and charges that Miss A has paid on Loans 
3 and 4.
HSBC should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss A received as a result of being given Loans 3 and 4. 
The repayments Miss A has made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss A having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement *
If any capital balance remains outstanding HSBC should arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss A
Remove any negative information from Miss As credit file in relation to Loans 3 and 4
*HMRC requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Miss A a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman