The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
July 1999. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
In July 1999 Mr P applied for a credit card from Lloyds. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy. The policy covered Mr P against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It would have paid a monthly benefit of 5% of the outstanding card balance 
for up to 12 months if Mr P had made a successful claim. The credit card and the PPI were 
taken out during a branch meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr P says he was pressured into buying the PPI because he was told he needed to take out 
PPI to help get his credit card application approved.
Lloyds has shown us a copy of the application form signed by Mr P. I can see there is a 
section about PPI. There are boxes that could be ticked to accept or decline the PPI. And I 
can see the box to accept the PPI has been ticked while the decline box is blank.
I cant be sure who completed the form and it may have been a member of Lloyds staff. But 
I can see the form contains a lot of personal information so its likely a discussion took place 
before the form was passed to Mr P for him to check and sign. I dont know what was said 
to Mr P about the PPI but the form presents the PPI as optional and I cant see anything on 
the application to indicate it needed to be taken out in order to secure the credit.
Lloyds would have advised Mr P to take out PPI, and Ive no doubt the Lloyds representative 
told Mr P he should take the policy, but that is different to saying he had to.
So, weighing everything up, I think Lloyds likely made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember 
this after so many years.
DRN-1874619Lloyds has told us its representative shouldve given Mr P advice about the policy and 
recommended it to him. That being the case Lloyds had a duty to ensure it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. I say this for the 
following reasons:-
Mr P was working and seems to have been eligible for the policy. So he could benefit from 
the cover it gave him.
Mr P wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example he didnt 
have any medical conditions that had already been diagnosed and wouldnt be covered.
The policy couldve paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr P became too ill to work or lost 
his job. Mr P has told us he would get some sick pay from his employer, but the policy 
benefit would be paid in addition to this and could have lasted for longer than his sick pay. 
So Mr P wouldve found the policy useful if things went wrong.
And Mr P has told us he had no other resources he could rely on to pay the credit card 
repayments.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it looks like Mr P was interested in this type of cover, and from what Ive seen it 
seems suitable given his circumstances. So I dont think any better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
In summary I think Lloyds made Mr P aware of the PPI policy and that it was optional.
I think it most likely Mr P chose to take it out. The policy seems to have been suitable for him 
and even if Lloyds had given Mr P all the clear information about the policy that it should 
have, I still think Mr P wouldve bought it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. And I make no award against 
Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman