DRN-2071176
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds), then trading as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in June 2001.
What happened
Mr B bought the policy when he was applying for some extra borrowing and arranged for it to 
be secured against his home. The policy provided him with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
He says he didnt know hed taken out the cover, it was never explained to him and didnt 
need it, especially given that he was struggling financially at the time. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr B disagrees, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he bought his policy at a meeting with Lloyds. Lloyds has confirmed that it made a 
recommendation about buying the PPI. That means it had responsibility for ensuring that the 
policy was suitable for Mr Bs situation. Also, the information it provided about the policy 
needed to be clear enough for him to be able to make an informed choice about buying the 
cover.
From looking the sale paperwork, I can see that Mr B completed a separate PPI application 
form and also provided his bank details. I can see on the PPI application form that Mr B 
specified that he wanted 100% level of cover for his mortgage. So I think that Mr B thought 
about buying the policy, the level of cover he wanted and was happy for the monthly 
premiums to be taken from his bank account.
Ive kept in mind that Mr B bought the PPI over 20 years ago. So I wouldnt expect him to 
recall exactly what went on during the sale. Based on what Ive seen about each sale, I 
think its likely that Mr B decided to buy the policy to help protect his mortgage repayments 
and provide him with some reassurance. I think he was or ought to have been aware that 
he didnt have to buy it.
Mr B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main policy exclusions. If 
he needed to make a claim because he couldnt work or lost his job, the policy would 
cover
his mortgage payments for up to twelve months. Mr B says he was entitled to some 
benefits from his employer, but only up to 3 months. Given that the policy would pay out 
for up to 12 months I think Mr B would have seen the PPI as being worthwhile cover if he 
was unable to work and couldnt keep up the payments. It also means he wouldnt have to 
dig into any other financial resources, such as his savings. 
The policy cost £2.25 per month and would cover Mr Bs monthly loan payments of
£33.35. I cant be sure that Mr B knew about the cost of the policy when he bought it or that 
hed read the policy documentation that normally would have been given to him after hed 
bought the policy. But from what Ive seen he could afford the cover and so most likely 
would have been able to meet the monthly premiums.
I can see its possible there may have been some potential shortcomings in the way this 
policy was sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr B would still have 
decided to buy the policy if hed been better advised and informed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman