DRN-2358497
The complaint
Mr P complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, (LS), didnt remove his 
upheld loans from his credit file when it agreed to provide redress on an irresponsible 
lending complaint he had made against it.
What happened
Mr P took out 25 short term loans with LS from December 2016 to July 2018. He instructed a 
claims management company, (CMC), to complain on his behalf to LS that these loans 
were irresponsibly lent. The CMC complained to LS in late November 2019 and asked for 
interest and charges on the loans to be refunded, for statutory interest to be paid and for any 
loans confirmed to be mis-sold to be entirely removed from Mr Ps credit file. 
LS sent the CMC a final response letter via an email dated 17 January 2020 in which LS 
offered to settle the complaint in relation to Loans 5 to 25 as follows:-
We'll refund the interest and fees Mr P have paid us for loans 5 to 25
 We'll pay an extra 8% simple interest on this amount
 We'll withhold 20% of this additional 8% interest amount because Her Majesty's Revenue 
and Customs (HMRC) told us we must do this
 We'll check this refund amount (after HMRC withholding) against any outstanding balances 
Mr P has with us
 We'll give Mr P a certificate of the tax we have withheld for use in any discussions with 
HMRC if required
 We'll remove any adverse marks we have left on Mr P's credit file at the CRA for loans 5 to 
25.
What you need to do
If you're happy with the decision and would like us to refund you, please reply to this email
1 Tell us you accept our decision and would like to receive your refund
2 Tell us where we should send the money
The CMC responded to LS on 17 January 2020 and said:-
Thank you for your email and providing your proposal offer. Our client would like to accept 
your offer as full and final settlement of his complaint. 
The CMCs response went on to provide details about the account to which the money 
should be sent.
Mr P has received the refunded amounts but is unhappy that the upheld loans still remain on 
his credit file. He told this service that he had assumed that they would be removed. He had 
made complaints against other lenders about irresponsible lending and the upheld loans had 
been removed from his credit file. He said that he would have rejected LSs offer if he knew 
that the upheld loans wouldnt be removed.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
hadnt seen anything that showed that LS had said it would remove the loans from Mr Ps 
credit file. He noted that as part of the proposed settlement, LS said, We'll remove any 
adverse marks we have left on Mr P's credit file at the CRA for loans 5 to 25. This was the 
offer that Mr P accepted. And as he hadnt seen anything to say that LS hadnt amended the
credit file as it said it would, he thought that LS had actioned the offer as it said it would.
Mr P disagreed and responded to say that the fact that he was given a full rebate on interest, 
but the loans were kept on his credit file had no logic whatsoever. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is the content of the offer that was made by LS to the CMC on    
Mr Ps behalf and accepted by the CMC on his behalf. I have set out in some detail the 
actual wording of LSs offer contained within its final response letter above. In particular I 
note that LSs offer expressly says that:-
We'll remove any adverse marks we have left on Mr P's credit file at the CRA for loans 5 to 
25
I can see that the CMC had asked in its complaint for any loans confirmed to be mis-sold to 
be entirely removed from Mr Ps credit file. So, LSs offer didnt completely provide Mr P with 
everything he had asked for. But this was the offer that was accepted. And I think LSs offer 
is clear in referring to the removal of any adverse marks (rather than the removal of the 
loans) from the credit file. 
Ive also looked through the information wed received from LS and I couldnt see anything to 
suggest that the lender had told Mr P that it would be removing all the loan entries on his 
credit file for the upheld loans. 
I note that LS said that no adverse information had been reported for Loans 5 to 25. So there 
were no adverse marks for it to remove. 
So, I think LS has actioned the terms of its offer and it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said is going to disappoint Mr P and Im sorry to have to do that. 
But I hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman