DRN-3805862
The complaint
Mr J complains about advice he received from Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) in 
relation to the transfer of benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme. 
What happened
Mr J holds benefits in a DB scheme from a period of previous employment. Because of the 
nature of those pension benefits, Mr J was required to take regulated financial advice if he 
was considering transferring them. I understand the trustees of the DB scheme were offering 
enhanced transfer values to some members and also agreed to pay for the relevant financial 
advice, if this was taken from Hub.
Hub says Mr J first contacted it in January 2021. And it has provided evidence of a customer 
declaration that Mr J signed on 11 February 2021.
Hub completed a fact find with Mr J to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Mr J was 65, in good health, married with two grown children and he worked full 
time on a self-employed basis. Mr J indicated he planned to continue working until age 70. 
He and Mrs J owned their own home and had savings totalling approximately £220,000. 
Mrs J had already retired and was in receipt of pension income from guaranteed sources 
(state pension and DB schemes). In addition to his DB scheme benefits, Mr J also had a 
money purchase pension. 
Hub recorded that Mr J was interested in transferring his pension benefits from the DB 
scheme to his money purchase pension. This was because he was interested in taking tax-
free cash but then leaving the remainder of the fund untouched, so it could pass to Mrs J 
and his children, in the event of his death, as he didnt consider this to be an important part 
of his retirement provisions.
Hub also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk which it deemed to be 
moderate.
Hub first provided Mr J with abridged advice  where it gathered relevant information and 
would either make a recommendation not to transfer or say it is unclear at that stage 
whether a transfer was suitable. If the outcome was that it was unclear, Mr J could opt to 
receive full advice. It says this was discussed over the phone with Mr J on 5 March 2021 
with its abridged advice report then being issued on 19 March 2021. This said that it was 
unclear at that stage whether or not Mr J would benefit from a transfer. Mr J opted to receive 
full advice  the cost of which again was covered by the DB scheme.
Hub issued its recommendation on 25 May 2021. It advised Mr J not to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits. Hub explained that although Mr and Mrs J had other guaranteed retirement 
benefits, these did not meet their expected retirement income needs. And some of their 
other means were not guaranteed and already subject to risk. So, retaining Mr Js 
guaranteed DB scheme benefits provided them with useful additional income. It also didnt 
think Mr J had any real need to transfer  as he didnt have a purpose in mind for tax free 
cash at that time and he had other ways to provide a legacy to his family.
Hub provided Mr J and the trustees of the DB scheme with confirmation that it had provided 
him with the required regulated financial advice.
Mr J complained to Hub. He was unhappy with the recommendation made as he wanted to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits. And he said his money purchase pension provider would 
not accept a transfer without a positive recommendation, which he felt Hub shouldve 
informed him of. He was also unhappy with the time the advice process had taken.
Hub thought the advice it had given was suitable based on Mr Js circumstances and that it 
had done what it was required to by providing confirmation it had given advice, noting it had 
taken a business decision not to allow applications on an insistent client basis. It accepted it 
had caused some delays  not requesting information as promptly as it shouldve done and 
in the time it took for it to internally check the advice report before issuing this  which it 
estimated came to approximately 28 days. So, it offered Mr J £75 for the inconvenience this 
had caused.
Mr J asked our service to look into the matter. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He noted Mr J had said a different adviser had since given a different 
recommendation. But he didnt think the advice given by Hub was unreasonable. He also 
didnt think Hub was responsible for the receiving schemes processes or that Hub shouldve 
been aware of or told Mr J about this. And in respect of the delays, which Hub had 
acknowledged, he thought the offer made was fair.
Mr J did not agree. He said hed now completed a transfer but had not benefitted from the 
enhancement the trustees had offered and indeed the transfer value had fallen further 
because of market conditions, so he felt Hub had caused him a loss. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS).  And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr J was required to take regulated financial advice before he could transfer from his DB 
scheme pension. And a transfer couldnt proceed without him taking this advice. He wasnt 
though restricted to seeking advice from Hub. The cost of advice provided by Hub would be 
met by the trustees of the DB scheme. But Mr J was free to approach a different financial 
adviser, at his own cost, if he so chose.
Mr J asked Hub for advice. Its role though, as a regulated financial adviser, wasnt just to 
put in place what Mr J wanted. Hub was required to look at Mr Js circumstances and 
objectives. And it then needed to consider these, have regard for the relevant rules and 
regulations  not least COBS 9 which deals with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer  and recommend what it believed to be in Mr Js best 
interests. It also had to bear in mind that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And so, Hub should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests.
Ive seen a copy of the fact find that was completed as part of the advice process. And 
based on this and the information recorded in the advice reports Im satisfied that Hub 
understood Mr Js circumstances before giving advice - which was in line with the 
requirements of it. 
Hub initially provided abridged advice. The report set out that there were potential 
advantages and disadvantages of a transfer. It also said at that stage that it was unclear 
whether a transfer was in Mr Js interests. Having reviewed the abridged advice report, Im 
satisfied that this made it clear that Hub wasnt recommending a transfer at that point, nor 
did it suggest what its advice might be, if Mr J opted for full advice. And providing initial 
abridged advice, in the form that Hub did here, is a process that is permitted under the FCA 
rules.
Once Hub moved to providing full advice, it recommended that Mr J did not transfer his 
benefits  setting out the reasons in its suitability report. Mr J thinks this conclusion was 
unsuitable. But as Ill explain, I dont think it was.
Hub noted that Mr and Mrs Js existing guaranteed retirement provisions fell short of the 
level of income they expected to need in retirement. And by quite a significant amount  
potentially between £15,000 - £20,000 per year. It was recorded that Mr J had other assets 
he could potentially use. But his other pension was already subject to market risk and the 
return was not guaranteed. And, while he expected to potentially continue to receive 
consultancy fees from his business or may receive a lump sum if he sold it, neither of these 
things were guaranteed. The DB scheme pension wouldnt have covered the entire shortfall 
to the anticipated income required. But it wouldve lessened that shortfall, while providing a 
guaranteed income. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Hub to conclude that it could be 
useful to Mr J and that he could come to have some reliance on this income.
Although Mr J had indicated hed like access to tax-free cash, Hub didnt think he had an 
immediate need for this. And I think that conclusion was also reasonable. The information in 
the fact find and the summaries of Mr Js personal circumstances in the recommendations 
didnt indicate that he had any pressing or immediate need for tax free cash or that he had 
any set plans for this. So, I think it was reasonable that Hub concluded this wasnt something 
that was required at that stage but was rather something Mr J would potentially like to have.
Hub also noted that Mr Js money purchase pension and savings and investments, already 
provided him with a good level of flexibility. With the money purchase pension again 
already subject to market risk. I again think this was a reasonable observation and that there 
doesnt appear to have been a need, beyond personal preference, to subject more of his 
retirement provisions to risk.
These assets also couldve been used to provide the legacy that Mr J said he was interested 
in. And Hub indicated that life cover was also a potential alternative. So, a transfer wasnt the 
only way of achieving this aim.
Mr J was also unlikely, based on Hubs analysis, to be able to replicate the benefits hed 
have been giving up. Mr J had already reached the point that he could draw benefits under 
the scheme. And the cost of replacing these with like for like benefits elsewhere at that time was estimated to be over £45,000 more than the transfer value he was being offered. 
Based on when the benefits held under the DB scheme were accrued, a portion of the 
pension would not have escalated while in payment. And Mr J indicated that he felt he could 
achieve better growth on the open market than the revaluation that would be applied to the 
DB scheme. He also appears to have discussed the growth rates previously achieved by his 
money purchase pension with Hub, in reference to this. But past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and growth was not guaranteed. And again, I think Hub 
was reasonable to conclude the guaranteed income from the DB scheme could become 
important to Mr J. So, while Mr J indicated to Hub that he didnt consider this pension 
essential and was not interested in replicating the benefits it offered, I think Hubs conclusion 
that he was likely to be worse off as a result of the transfer was reasonable, particularly 
considering his moderate attitude to risk.
So, based on everything Ive seen, I think Hubs conclusions that a transfer wasnt in Mr Js 
best interests was reasonable. He doesnt appear to have had a need to transfer, he was 
likely to be worse off as a result and the DB scheme couldve been useful to him in 
retirement.
I appreciate that Mr J and Hub had differing views of what was in his best interests. But it 
wasnt Hubs role to simply transact what Mr J wanted. It had to decide what it thought was 
in his best interests  based on the requirements set by the regulator. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Hub to recommend against a transfer or that its advice was unsuitable. 
Mr J has said that a different adviser has since given him a different recommendation and 
that he has since transferred his DB scheme benefits, but at a lower transfer value. And he 
says Hub shouldve therefore recommended a transfer But Im not considering the actions of 
that other adviser here  only whether Hub has acted incorrectly. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think the advice it gave was unsuitable.
After issuing its recommendation, Hub provided Mr J with confirmation that it had given him 
regulated financial advice. And it wasnt required to provide any further service. Businesses 
are not required to process transfers on the basis that the customer insists they do so. And 
Hub has explained this isnt a service that it provides.
Mr J says Hub shouldve made him aware that his money purchase provider would not 
accept a transfer without a positive recommendation from a financial adviser. But I dont 
think this is something that Hub is at fault for. Again, Mr J was required to obtain regulated 
financial advice, because of the nature of his DB scheme benefits, before a transfer could 
take place. And that is the service that Hub provided and provided a declaration confirming 
this. 
If the pension provider, which Mr J wanted to receive the transfer, had further requirements 
before accepting a transfer, that is a matter of its commercial judgement. This is not 
something which Hub can influence or be held responsible for. And indeed, these processes 
are often confidential. So, I dont agree with Mr J that this was something Hub needed to 
enquire about or share with him when providing advice  as its advice was about whether 
transferring at all was in his best interests.
Mr J is also unhappy with how long the advice process took and has mentioned that the 
adviser he has approached since took only a week to provide advice. Again, Im not looking 
at the actions of this other adviser, only whether Hub has made an error. 
Advice in relation to transferring DB scheme benefits is subject to significant regulation. And 
advisers need to fully consider all of the relevant circumstances while bearing in mind the FCAs guidance. This can and often does take time. Here the written recommendation was 
given approximately four and a half months after Mr J appears to have first contacted Hub, 
and three and a half months after he signed a customer declaration. And in my experience, 
that is not an unreasonable timeframe for such advice to be given
Hub has accepted though that it caused some delays here. Its provided a timeline of events 
and highlighted that there were occasions where it couldve acted more quickly  initially 
when arranging the abridged advice consultation, when sending Mr J a form to provide it 
authority to gather information from his money purchase pension provider and when drafting 
its recommendation summary. It estimated this amounted to approximately four weeks of 
delays. Which I think appears to be correct.
Hub offered Mr J £75 for the inconvenience caused by this delay. And taking everything into 
account, while this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr J, I think that offer is fair in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Hub to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint, as I think Hub Financial 
Solutions Limited has already made a fair offer to resolve things.
So, to put things right, if it hasnt already done so, Hub Financial Solutions Limited should 
pay Mr J the £75 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman