DRN-1540485
Complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly restarted proceedings to take 
possession of her home, using an old possession order, without reasonable sympathy to her 
circumstances.
Background 
Mrs T remortgaged her property with Bank of Scotland in 2011. Her mortgage was for 
approximately £113,000, on a repayment basis, with a 35 year term.
Mrs T experienced financial difficulty and her mortgage fell into arrears, resulting in the 
granting, by a court, of a possession order in May 2014. The arrears were cleared in  August 
2014, but by January 2016, the account was in arrears again. Bank of Scotland started 
possession proceedings and Mrs T cleared the arrears in November 2016.
Since July 2017 shes made no payments to the mortgage. She suffered with her own health 
following a pregnancy and then had to take time out of work to care for her husband  who 
isnt a party to the mortgage. Her husband was diagnosed with cancer and has undergone 
several operations since.
Mrs T put the property on the market for sale in September 2017. She had a potential buyer 
and the sales process highlighted two issues with the property  one in relation to the lease 
and another about a ground rent review. Both needed attention before the sale could 
complete. Through no obvious fault of Mrs T, these issues took time to resolve, resulting in 
the buyer withdrawing their interest. The property went back on the market, but remains 
unsold. Mrs T says she was told by Bank of Scotland, while the sale was ongoing, not to 
worry about the arrears, as the sale proceeds will clear them.
In October 2017 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mrs T explaining that it can enforce the 
possession order of 2014. Mrs T then called Bank of Scotland to explain her circumstances, 
which, at that time, included her own health issues and the inconsistent nature of her 
husbands income.
In January 2018 Bank of Scotland gained confirmation that the property was on the market 
and, in February, made an arrangement to pay with Mrs T. This was for the contractual 
monthly payment plus an amount to clear the arrears. This arrangement was cancelled in 
April 2018 because Mrs T didnt make the agreed payments. 
In August 2018 Mrs T accepted an offer on the property and informed Bank of Scotland. But 
in October 2018, having had no further contact from Mrs T, Bank of Scotland wrote to her 
reminding her that it could still enforce the possession order of 2014. Mrs T called and 
informed Bank of Scotland that she was not being paid due to her needing to care for her 
husband following his second cancer operation. She said the sale was still ongoing but 
stalling due to the lease issue. Bank of Scotland put its possession action on hold.
In January 2019 Mrs T called to update Bank of Scotland about the sale of the property. She 
said the lease issue will still take some time to resolve. Bank of Scotland reviewed the case in March and found that it was inappropriate to continue 
to delay possession proceedings. It wrote to Mrs T in April confirming its intention to enforce 
its possession order of 2014. Mrs T called Bank of Scotland in May to say her family could 
make a payment towards the arrears and she could make an arrangement to pay to avoid 
eviction. But Bank of Scotland said it would only accept a memorandum of sale confirming 
the completion date - or it would consider full repayment of arrears and an income and 
expenditure statement to assess the affordability of a potential arrangement to pay. 
Mrs T complained, saying Bank of Scotland was not being fair by limiting her options as she 
was doing all she could. Bank of Scotland put the eviction on hold while it investigated    Mrs 
Ts complaint. On 16 May 2019 Bank of Scotland sent its final response letter to Mrs T, 
addressing her complaint. The letter confirmed the eviction process had been put on hold. 
But it also said  as it had not received the full balance of the arrears or a memorandum of 
sale  it was unable to prevent the eviction.
Towards the end of May 2019, Mrs T called Bank of Scotland to make an arrangement to 
pay. She was told she needed to call its legal department and given a number to do so. It 
doesnt appear from Bank of Scotlands records that she then made the call to the legal 
department until approximately 10 days later  after the sale of her property had fallen 
through.
In June 2019 Mrs T informed Bank of Scotland the sale of the property had fallen through. It 
told her shed need to complete an income and expenditure assessment and sent her the 
form for that. Later in June Mrs T asked Bank of Scotland about the possibility of capitalising 
the arrears  she said this was suggested by the banks solicitors. Bank of Scotland declined 
this as there had been no recent payments.
In July 2019, Mrs T contacted Bank of Scotland to explain her current circumstances, 
specifically that her husband had undergone more surgery. She then submitted an income 
and expenditure assessment, showing a monthly surplus of over £400 and medical 
evidence. She requested an arrangement be agreed of her contractual monthly payment 
plus £200.
Bank of Scotland didnt accept Mrs Ts offer, but its records dont show that it told her until 
she called for an update in August 2019. It said it was proceeding with the eviction. Later in 
August Mrs T offered £5,000 in addition to her previous request for an arrangement to pay. 
Bank of Scotland said it would only accept full repayment of the arrears which, by that time, 
were approximately £15,000.
Mrs T complained to this service in November 2019. We contacted Bank of Scotland late in 
November to request that it put the eviction on hold until we complete our investigation. 
 Bank of Scotland agreed a temporary hold but emphasised that further holds without clear 
justification can potentially incur further legal costs, arrears and the erosion of the equity in 
Mrs Ts property.
Mrs T made a claim to the court to set aside the possession order of 2014 and in 
  December 2019, the court adjourned her claim indefinitely to allow the complaints process 
to run its course, including the involvement of this Service.
Our investigator thought Halifax had acted reasonably. He said the possession order is valid 
for six years but pointed out that Bank of Scotland would still need to apply to the court for 
warrant before the eviction can take place. He found that Bank of Scotland had been 
sympathetic and flexible in the circumstances. And he thought that seeking possession now 
was in Mrs Ts best interest because the equity in her property is diminishing.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, for the same reasons hes explained.
To reach my decision Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland has been flexible and 
sympathetic in its dealings with Mrs T. Ive also thought about whether it should have 
explored other options in the circumstances and whether its fair that its now seeking to use 
the possession order of 2014.
I have the utmost sympathy for Mrs T, given her current set of circumstances  I can see 
that shes going through an incredibly difficult time which is undoubtedly taking its toll on her. 
And I believe her when she says shes doing all she possibly can. But, I need to think about 
whether Bank of Scotlands intentions take into account what is right for Mrs T in the long 
term. 
Ive seen from Bank of Scotlands notes it has been considering seeking possession using 
the order of 2014 for quite some time during Mrs Ts current financial difficulty. Its put those 
plans on hold for a number of reasons, including the sale of the property, Mr Ts health and 
this services involvement in the complaint. So I think it has been flexible and shown 
sympathy to Mrs T.
Ive also seen that Bank of Scotland has agreed arrangements to pay with Mrs T. Her most 
recent income and expenditure assessment indicates that those arrangements should have 
been affordable. But Mrs T wasnt able to make payment so the arrangements failed.
Mrs T asked Bank of Scotland to capitalise the arrears, but it declined to do so. I think it was 
reasonable to decline this request in the circumstances. I say that because adding the 
arrears to the capital balance would increase the contractual monthly payment. Its clear 
from Mrs Ts payment history that shes struggling to pay the current contractual monthly 
payment. And it doesnt appear that her circumstances are likely to change significantly very 
soon. So, I dont think capitalising the arrears is necessarily a practical, long term solution.  
Mrs T has said she just wants more time to sell the property. This would clearly be 
something that would change her circumstances considerably. And, it does appear that 
shes addressed the issues that caused so much delay to the sale that eventually fell 
through. But, as far as this Service has been made aware, she still doesnt have a new 
buyer. Bank of Scotland has said that it is only prepared to stop the eviction process now  
in relation to a sale  if Mrs T can provide a memorandum of sale. She wont be able to 
provide this until shes towards the end of the sales process. Given that she doesn't have a 
buyer yet and the time to complete the sales process is indeterminable, Mrs Ts equity  as a 
result of increasing arrears - is at risk of diminishing significantly.  
I appreciate that losing her home may never feel to Mrs T that her long term needs are being 
considered. But if - as it now appears, given her payment history  Mrs Ts mortgage 
payments are unaffordable, I think its reasonable that Bank of Scotland acts to take 
possession while there is some equity remaining in the property.
I know that Mrs T thinks its not fair that Bank of Scotland is seeking to use a possession 
order from 2014  relating to a separate time when her mortgage went into arrears. But the 
alternative would be that it applies for another possession order, incurring more legal costs 
which Mrs T is likely to have to pay. The court will decide if it allows Bank of Scotland to use 
the possession order of 2014, but I think its reasonable that it does, given that the 
alternative is likely to mean additional expense for Mrs T.Mrs T says shes been prevented from making payments and that Bank of Scotland wouldnt 
accept a £5,000 lump sum in 2019. Ive seen that Bank of Scotland didnt accept  as a 
means to stop the eviction process  Mrs Ts proposed payment arrangement which 
included the lump sum payment. Given the level of arrears that wouldve remained after the 
payment of the lump sum, I think Bank of Scotland would still have been in the position 
where it needed to take action to prevent the situation worsening. So, I dont think it declining 
Mrs Ts proposal was unreasonable. I havent seen that Mrs T has been prevented from 
making payments at any time and I havent seen that Bank of Scotland told her not to worry 
about the arrears. 
In summary, I think there were occasions when Bank of Scotland could have been clearer 
about its intentions  for example, its final response letter seemed to say both that eviction 
was on hold and that eviction was proceeding. But Ive seen that Bank of Scotland was 
writing to Mrs T and discussed the matter over the phone, so Im satisfied she was aware of 
the action it was taking. Overall, I think it has been flexible and understanding. And I think its 
current action is reasonable given the circumstances and given that it has considered other 
practical alternatives. So, I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly in its treatment of 
Mrs T during this latest period of financial difficulty or its proposed use of the possession 
order of 2014.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman