DRN-3199752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt inform them 
that theyd taken over the policies and that they didnt have the option to renew their policies 
at the end of the term. 
What happened
Mrs D took out a level term assurance policy for a period of ten years in March 2009. Mr D 
also took out a policy which started in April 2009. They said they understood that theyd be 
able to renew their policies at the end of the term and this was verbally confirmed with a 
representative.
Mr and Mrs D retired to a country outside of the UK in March 2011. Theyve said they were 
told that moving would not be an issue. However, they were surprised to find out in March 
2019 that the policy had been taken over by Aviva. They were also concerned the option 
they thought they had to renew was no longer available. They say theyve now been left 
without funeral cover and are finding it difficult to take out similar policies given their age.
Therefore, Mrs D contacted Aviva to complain. Aviva responded to the complaint and didnt
uphold it. They said that the policy wasnt sold as a renewable term and the option would
have been removed before Mrs Ds seventieth birthday in any event.
Mrs D remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that Aviva had
acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs D didnt agree with the view. She explained that both companies were reputable and as
such should have informed her of the changeover of the policies from one company to the
other or at least given her the chance to make a decision on how she wanted to proceed.
Also, Aviva have now provided consent for us to look into concerns raised about Mr Ds
policy.
On 25 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision. I said:
 
Mr and Mrs D initially took out their policies with a different provider. But Aviva took 
over the policies and has since taken responsibility for the complaint. Therefore, this 
decision is correctly set against Aviva who have taken responsibility for the service 
provided here. For clarity, this responsibility extends to the actions relating to the sale 
of the policy by the first provider.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds concerns that they had spoken to the first provider over 
the phone a couple of times about their relocation and werent told about the 
changeover. Ive thought about this carefully.
Aviva have confirmed that a letter was issued to all customers at the time. They dont 
have a copy of the letter sent in 2011 and I dont consider this unusual given the 
amount of time which has passed. However, Ive seen a copy of the template letter 
from 2017. Therefore, I consider it likely that Aviva took reasonable steps to notify Mr 
and Mrs D. 
In any event, Ive not been presented with evidence to satisfy me that this caused 
undue difficulty. Also, cover was provided for the duration of the term agreed. So, Im 
not persuaded the takeover has contributed to the issues Mr and Mrs D describe 
after their policies ended.
I understand the policies were for a period of ten years. However, Mr and Mrs D have 
told us that it was verbally agreed at the point of sale that they could extend it by 
taking out another policy. Unfortunately, I do have limited information in respect of 
what happened at that time. This means I must carefully weigh the information I do 
have and decide whats more likely to have happened.
So, Ive looked at the policy documents including the handbook. Mr and Mrs D have
explained they didnt receive the handbook. Taking this into consideration, its usual 
for a handbook to be provided at the point of sale and the evidence doesnt give me 
enough reason to conclude that this wasnt the case here. Aviva have also provided 
the handbook relevant to the time when Mr and Mrs D purchased the policies.
The information in the policy handbook also confirms the registration certificate would
confirm the type of agreement. It also provides an explanation of renewable date. 
The explanation tells me that whether Mr and Mrs Ds policies were renewable would 
have been confirmed on the registration certificate. The handbook also says that if 
the policy wasnt renewable term cover then the membership would end on the expiry 
date shown on the registration certificate (providing that the benefit wasnt paid 
during the term and the premiums were paid).
I havent seen a copy of Mrs Ds registration certificate. However, Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Ds registration certificate and can see it gave an expiry date for the policy. There 
was no renewable date. Ive also reviewed a copy of the application form and the 
quotation provided in March 2009. And having done so I cant see the renewable 
term option was selected. The quotation states the policy would run for a term of ten 
years and does not say it was renewable. So, even though Mr and Mrs D say they 
didnt receive the policy handbook, I think they were given enough information 
outside of this to understand the nature of the policy.
Aviva have also provided a screenshot of their system entry which specifies an expiry 
date. Whilst I do appreciate what Mr and Mrs D have said about receiving verbal 
assurances, the written documentation from the time doesnt support this. Therefore, 
on balance, I find the policies were likely to have been sold on a non-renewable 
basis.
Moreover, Aviva have also explained that the renewable option would have been 
withdrawn prior to Mr and Mrs Ds seventieth birthdays. Ive reviewed the handbook 
and I can see that this is confirmed in the policy terms. Given the terms outlined in 
the handbook, I find it unlikely the policy was sold on a renewable basis and that the 
sales advisor gave Mr and Mrs D this assurance. This is because Mr and Mrs Ds seventieth birthday passed before the policy term ended and this means that they 
wouldnt have been able to renew their policies in any event.
Having given this complaint careful thought, I cant say Aviva have done anything 
wrong here. Mr and Mrs D took out their policies which were for a certain term and 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that they were sold on a renewable 
basis. Cover has been provided for the agreed term, and Mr and Mrs D have 
accepted they would have had the benefit of the policy should the need have arisen 
during the term. This also means that, although it was Avivas decision to discontinue 
the type of policy, Im not persuaded the fact they took over the policy unreasonably 
contributed to the issues Mr and Mrs D have explained they now face in respect of 
obtaining cover.
Mr and Mrs D are concerned they cant now obtain another policy and Ive thought 
about whether a whole of life policy shouldve been considered at the point of sale. 
Aviva have said that the initial provider dealt with setting up the policies, but only 
within the capacity of promoting products offered under a private membership 
scheme. Theyve also confirmed that the initial provider didnt offer a whole of life 
policy within the membership benefits. Ive looked at the application form and can 
see there is no option for a whole of life policy and so I wouldnt have expected them 
to have considered this.
Therefore, Im content Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further evidence and comments before making 
my final decision.
I didnt receive a response from Aviva. Mr and Mrs D responded with their comments. They 
explained that the companies involved (referred to as Aviva in this decision) failed to tell 
them about the takeover and that the policies were no longer going to be extended for 
another ten years or more. They said the crux of the matter is that had they known of the 
change at the takeover they would have cancelled or taken out something else. They feel 
that the money from the point the policy was taken over should be returned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have explained they werent told about the takeover and would 
have cancelled the policies had they known. However, Ive outlined in my provisional 
decision the evidence Ive seen which satisfies me its likely Aviva took reasonable steps to 
inform them. Although it appears Mr and Mrs D didnt receive this, I wouldnt expect Aviva to 
do anything more here.  
In my provisional decision, I also set out what information Id seen from the point of sale and 
explained that there was no reference to the policies being renewable (or that Mr and Mrs D 
would have the option to extend). Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs 
D have lost the opportunity to extend the policy as a result of the takeover as the policies 
were sold on a non-renewable basis. Having thought carefully, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman