DRN-3961859
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as V, complain about Elavon Financial Services Designated 
Activity Companys (Elavon) chosen method of alerting it about a potential chargeback. V 
said by choosing to do so by e-mail alone, it missed the deadline by which it needed to 
present evidence to Elavon to challenge the chargeback because the email ended up in its 
spam folder. 
In bringing this complaint, V is represented by its director, who I refer to as Mr S.  
  
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, V is a merchant and has a merchant processing agreement (the Agreement) with 
Elavon. 
Mr S has told us that in August 2022, a customer bought goods from V costing £45 which 
was paid for using their credit card. He said that although the transaction was legitimate, 
nonetheless, through a chargeback, Elevon refunded the transaction amount to the card 
holder and charged V £25 in the process.  
Mr S was unhappy that Elavon acted as they did and on Vs behalf, he complained to 
Elavon. 
Elavon didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said  in summary:
They processed the chargeback because the cardholder told their bank that they 
didnt recognise the transaction and believed it to be fraudulent.
They alerted V about the chargeback by sending it a notification to the email address 
they held for V which theyre allowed to do. 
Although, they endeavour to defend chargeback cases, this is subject to them 
receiving by the response date on the chargeback notification, documentation to 
prove the cardholders claim is invalid. The timeframe for chargebacks is set by the 
Card Associations and not Elavon. They didnt receive Vs response within the 
timeframe given in their notification to V and therefore, they were unable to represent 
Vs defence to the card issuing bank. 
Vs complaint remained unresolved, and so, Mr S referred it to this service to consider. 
Our investigator didnt think Elavon had made an error and therefore he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said he was satisfied that the agreement between Elavon and V didnt specify 
how they would contact their customers  only that they would do so. And Elavons decision 
to use an email as they did, seem reasonable on the basis its a durable medium and usually 
faster than a letter.
The investigator was also satisfied by Elavons evidence that they sent their email to the 
email address held for Mr S, and that the email confirmed the deadline by which V had to 
dispute the chargeback - which was 12 October 2022. He noted that on 7 September 2022, 
the email was delivered to Mr Ss email address.  Although he acknowledged Mr Ss point 
that it would have been good customer service to follow up their correspondence with a 
phone call, nonetheless he said this isnt Elavons process and furthermore theres no 
requirement within the Agreement for Elavon to call V.  
V didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsman to 
consider its case. On Vs behalf Mr S has made further representations  which I 
summarise. 
The investigator made enquires rather than carry out an investigation. If hed 
investigated Vs case, hed have been able to uncover whether the card holder did 
carry out the transaction and if not, who did.
An investigation is about finding the truth and learning from it. To that end, and since 
V does not have access to the cardholders contact details, the investigator should 
have asked the cardholders bank and Elavon to approach the card holder with 
evidence of the transaction receipt, which V has, and where the transaction took 
place. 
In so far as emails and letters being mentioned by the investigator as durable 
medium and that emails are faster, nonetheless, more recently both of these have 
become problematic. The most durable medium would have been, a phone call to the 
merchant's premises especially given the possibility of fraud. 
And in any case just because Elavon does not have an agreement to call, does not 
mean they cannot call. This would have been the right thing to do and, therefore, by 
not doing so was an error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I start by saying that I recognise and understand Mr Ss strength of feeling on this matter. 
And I note his belief the investigators investigation should have been broader in scope and 
encompassed the lines of enquiries he described. But I dont agree. Ill explain why and I 
start with chargebacks generally.
Chargeback is the process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants under the relevant card Scheme rules (in this case, Mastercard). Elavon dont 
operate the Scheme or decide if a chargeback is successful  it can only decide whether or 
not to defend it based on the information they receive from the merchant. 
Moreover, I can only consider Vs dispute with Elavon, not the cardholder or their bank. And, 
I can only look at Elavons treatment of V to determine whether that treatment has been fair 
and reasonable. With that in mind, I think the investigator acted appropriately when he 
focussed his investigation towards determining whether in the circumstances of the case 
Elavon had done anything wrong. Ive thought very carefully about what is at the heart of Vs case which is that it missed the 
deadline to submit evidence to Elavon to challenge the chargeback because Elavon chose 
email for their request which ended up in Mr Ss spam folder. 
Clause 12(d) of the Agreement says:
We shall notify you, to the extent permitted by the Laws, as soon as reasonably 
practicable of any Chargebacks which have occurred or been incurred.
When a chargeback request is made, the merchant has a limited period in which to submit 
their response to the card scheme. Therefore, it is important that they are informed as 
quickly as possible about the chargeback, and information supporting a challenge quickly 
passed on to the card scheme. 
I find that V was notified appropriately by the email Elavon sent it on 7 September 2022. 
Therefore, Elavon acted in accordance with Clause 12(d) and I do not find they did anything 
wrong. 
Clause 12 (f) of the Agreement goes on to say:
 
If you wish to dispute a Chargeback, you must prove to our reasonable satisfaction 
(or that of the relevant Issuer or Card Scheme) that the Sales Transaction was 
authorised by the Cardholder .. and provide us with any additional evidence that 
we (or the relevant Issuer or Card Scheme) require
The purpose of sending V their email on 7 September 2022 was to gather evidence to 
challenge the chargeback for which theres a timeframe for doing so as explained in the e-
mail. 
Its unfortunate Mr S did not see the email until after the deadline had passed and therefore 
did not provide Elavon with the evidence hes alluded to that might have supported Vs case. 
Unfortunately, by the time he contacted Elavon the ability for them to mount a challenge had 
passed.   
Disappointing though Im sure this will be for V, it wouldnt be fair to blame Elavon for that. 
On receiving the chargeback requests, Im satisfied that Elavon did as reasonably they were 
expected to do which was to notify V about it and to ask V if it wished to challenge the 
chargeback. Im also satisfied that Elavon did use the email address they had on their 
systems for V which Mr S has not argued was incorrect. Therefore, I am not persuaded that 
Elavon did anything wrong in terms of the way they made V aware of the chargeback. 
I appreciate Mr Ss point that he didnt see Elavons email for the reason Ive already noted. 
And I take his broader point that Elavon could and should have gone further by contacting V 
by other means such as the phone. But Elavon wasnt obliged to do so. Therefore, its 
difficult to conclude they were at fault because they did not. 
The Agreement further makes clear that Elavon can take money from V for any payments 
that they made in these circumstances. Clause 12(a) and 12(c) say:
(a) You shall be fully liable to Elavon for the amount of any and all Transactions returned to 
Elavon for whatever reason including Chargebacks (together with any Chargeback Costs) 
and ;
(c) The amount of each Chargeback represents a debt due and payable by     you to us 
irrespective of whether we make demand upon you for the value of any ChargebacksI am satisfied the charges Elavon recovered from V were in line with the Scheme rules and 
the Agreement. So, I cant reasonably say Elavon has done anything wrong.
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman