DRN-1096809
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Covea Insurance plc dealt with a claim against his motor 
insurance policy. Mr Ws mother, Mrs W, it helping him to bring his complaint. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr W told Covea that another driver cut across his lane on a roundabout, 
causing a collision. The front of the other drivers car hit the drivers side of Mr Ws car. 
Covea said that it would progress the claim but it didnt do so.  
In September 2018, Mr W contacted Covea again for an update. In October 2018, Covea  
contacted the other drivers insurer but the other driver disputed liability for the accident.  
I understand that Mr Ws car was repaired by Coveas approved repairer.  
In March 2019, Mr W received a county court claim. The owner of the other car sought 
damages from Mr W, as she held him responsible for the accident. Mr W sent the claim to 
Covea, which said it would deal with it. But it didnt do so. 
As Covea didnt respond to the county court claim in time, Mr W subsequently received a 
judgment in default. That means  that judgment had  been entered for the owner of the other 
car, as Covea, on Mr Ws behalf, hadnt replied to the claim form. In June 2019, Covea made 
an application to set aside the county court judgment. I understand that the liability issue is 
being dealt with by the court.   
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Covea paid Mr W total compensation of £300 for his 
distress and inconvenience. Mr W didnt think that was sufficient. 
Mr W says the stress from this matter has caused a recurrence of alopecia. He says that he 
had to put on hold for two months his plans to change his car, as he couldnt apply for credit. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Covea had done 
enough to put matters right. The investigator said that Covea had made various errors and 
he thought that total compensation of £400 in relation to Mr Ws distress and inconvenience 
was fair, so an additional £100.
Covea agreed with the investigator but Mr W didnt think that the compensation suggested 
by the investigator was sufficient and wanted £500 in addition to the £300 Covea had 
already paid. Mrs W asked whether Covea would be penalised for how it handled this matter 
and asked what would prevent this occurring again. She said that the stress of Coveas 
errors caused Mr Ws alopecia, which is life changing for him. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A claim in which liability is in dispute may be inherently stressful but its common ground that 
Covea made a number of errors in dealing with this matter which I dont doubt caused Mr W 
unnecessary distress. It gave Mr W incorrect information, delayed starting Mr Ws claim 
against the other driver, didnt deal with the other drivers claim and failed to keep Mr W 
updated about what was going on. 
As the investigator has explained, this service isnt the regulator, so we cant seek to punish 
Covea or tell it how to run its business. But I can look at the effect of Coveas errors on Mr W 
and how that can be fairly compensated. Im afraid I cant direct Covea to compensate for 
Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience, as shes not the policyholder. 
Coveas errors meant that Mr W had to chase matters. Where liability is in dispute, its not 
unusual for insurers for one party to start county court proceedings. Mr W passed the claim 
to Covea in the reasonable expectation that it would deal with it. As Covea didnt deal with it, 
Mr W had a judgment in default against him, which could have been avoided. It was no 
doubt distressing to receive a county court judgment. Covea subsequently applied to have 
the judgment removed. 
Mr W says that he had to delay changing his car for two months, as there was a judgment 
against him. But he hasnt provided evidence that the county court judgment was the reason 
he was prevented from changing his car. So, I dont think I can reasonably award 
compensation for that. 
Mr W also says that the stress from this matter caused a recurrence of alopecia. I think its 
very difficult  for Mr W to show that the recurrence was caused by Coveas errors. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to direct Covea to compensate 
Mr W for the effect of its errors on his health. 
Putting things right
Considering everything, I think that total compensation of £400 in fair and reasonable in this 
case. As Covea has already paid Mr W £300, it should now pay him the remaining £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that Covea Insurance plc should pay Mr W compensation of £100 in 
relation to his distress and inconvenience in addition to the £300 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman