DRN-4036930
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the cash settlement offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)
Limited (Admiral) under his home insurance policy following storm damage to his home.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Admiral in this decision letter includes its loss
adjusters and agents.
What happened
The roof of Mr Ss property was damaged following a storm in February 2022. Mrs S
reported this to Admiral, and it advised him to make the roof watertight and secure. Mr S
said that he wasnt told that the cost of works must be approved first, and he called a roofing
contractor. Due to the height of the roof, the contractor said that a full scaffold was needed to
inspect damage and make the roof secure. The contractor identified damaged and loose
tiles and confirmed these needed replacing to make the property watertight and safe. During
the repair works, he found that there were additional loose tiles which were also repaired.
Mr S was quoted a total cost for the work of £4,685 including £2,400 for the scaffolding. Mr S
eventually paid a total of £4,200 being £2,400 for the scaffolding and a reduced price of
£1,800 for the repairs as hed arranged to carry out waste removal himself.
In April 2022, Admirals loss adjuster inspected the property. He didnt think that full
scaffolding had been needed as only 3 metres of tiles had been damaged in the storm,
whilst Mr Ss contractor estimated the area of damage to be 9.5 metres. In the loss
adjusters view, the remainder of the loose tiles had been damaged through wear and tear,
so full scaffolding wasnt required. He thought that a scaffolding tower would have sufficed.
Admiral offered a settlement figure of £1,200 less a £350 excess figure, but later increased
the figure to just over £1,800 to include an amount towards the cost of the scaffolding.
Mr S remained unhappy with the settlement offer hed received and about the level of
service received from Admiral. He wanted to be reimbursed for the total amount hed spent
and complained to this service. Following an initial view provided by the services
investigator, Admiral increased its offer to just over £2,100. The investigator upheld the
scaffolding element of the claim and considered a further payment should be made to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy, and the investigator concluded that as both the loss adjuster and
Mr Ss contractor stated that the tiles needed to be refitted in new cement, the storm wasnt
the main cause of some of the damage. She thought the storm highlighted existing problems
with some of the cement and said she was unable to recommend a further payment.
However, she upheld Mr Ss claim for the full scaffolding costs. She didnt think that Mr S
should have been expected to query his contractors assessment of safety aspects.
As both Admiral and Mr S disagreed with the investigators final view, the matter was
referred to me to reach a decision in my role as Ombudsman. Earlier in March 2023, I issued 
a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to partly uphold Mr 
Js complaint as follows; - 
As theres no dispute that Mr S was insured for storm damage by Admiral at the relevant
time and that the storm in February 2022 caused damage to his roof, the key issue for me to
determine is whether Admiral settled Mr Ss claim in a fair and reasonable manner. On a
provisional basis, I dont consider that its done so, and Ill explain why.
In reaching my provisional decision, Ive considered the evidence and submissions of both
parties. Turning firstly to Mr Ss submissions, he provided a timeline of events and his
complaint in summary was that the final settlement offer was insufficient to cover the cost of
making his home secure and watertight following the recognised storm damage.
Mr S thought that the revised offer was still grossly unfair and unacceptable. He explained
that the main point of dispute was the cost of the scaffolding. He said hed followed Admirals
advice and had a duty to act quickly to make the house safe. Hed acted in good faith to
prevent further damage to the property and to members of the public. His contractor advised
that it was necessary from a safety perspective to erect scaffolding around the property to
replace lost tiles and secure those made loose in the storm to prevent further damage. Mr S
said that the contractor wouldnt have undertaken the work without scaffolding. He said: - I
have spoken with the roofer and he said that considering the height and distance along the
roof, he was not prepared to work from a scaffolding tower. It wasnt until Admirals loss
adjuster visited some 6 weeks later that the full scaffolding was questioned.
Mr S said that the contractor had since provided further advice to say that work at height was
the biggest single cause of fatal and serious injury in the construction industry, particularly
on smaller projects - over 60% of deaths during work at height involve falls. As to sloping
roofs, the contractor advised Mr S that these required scaffolding to prevent people or
materials falling from the edge, so edge protection needed to be secured to the eaves. He
said that as he had to replace ridge tiles and then check the remaining tiles, many of which
needed to be removed and then refitted as they became loose due to the storm, the whole
roof needed to have surrounding scaffolding.
Mr S said that in addition to the appointed roofer, two other contractors he approached to
provide a quote said theyd require full scaffolding. Mr S thought that a scaffolding tower
wouldnt have been safe to work from and the roofer provided a detailed explanation of this
from a health and safety perspective. He said that Admiral also made its decision due to a
factually incorrect assumption. Mr S said that the true area affected was around 9.5m and
not 3m as suggested by Admiral. He said there also appeared to be no regard to the overall
height of the structure which was 7.5m. Mr S originally said that as a compromise hed 
offered to accept a reduced settlement of £3,200. He now thought it would be fair for him to
receive the whole of the £4,200.
As to additional work which had been required, Mr S said there had been a domino effect
as regards the integrity of the ridge tiles which dislodged others which then needed to be
refitted with new cement. He said The [loss adjuster] would not go up and have a look even
though the scaffolding was there. He took pictures of the roof using his phone on a pole and
there is no way he could have made any relevant assumptions and yet expected the roofer
to work off a ladder and tower. Mr S said the loss adjuster didnt ask what was damaged and
so missed the front of the house. His contractors quote dated the beginning of March 2022
stated: - Due to the re[c]ent storms the ridge have been blown off and dislodged the
remaining. In the process the ridge tiles have damaged tiles on the roof when landing that
need replacing. Mr S disputed Admirals argument that some of the tiles were already loose.
He said that hed placed the ones that had flown off in a pile and pointed them out, as well
as some of the render which the roofer had left for him, but he said that the loss adjuster
didn't even look at them to examine the cement.
As to service issues, Mr S complained of delays in Admiral appointing its loss adjuster, and asubsequent lack of customer service from Admiral which he felt had exacerbated the issue.
He felt that the level of service was embarrassing. Hed been promised phone calls which
didnt then happen. He requested a compensation payment for the inconvenience caused
and significant time invested to resolve what should have been a relatively straightforward
storm damage claim.
Admiral said that it had offered its cash settlement in the interests of bringing this complaint
to a close. It said that its surveyor had reviewed the file and had noted that the area of work
required to replace the ridge tiles was around 3 metres in length and therefore we would
only provide access to this area only. The surveyor didnt agree that full scaffolding was
required to carry out the work covered by the policy. As to other areas of ridge tiles which Mr
S considered to be loose and which also needed to be removed and refitted with new
cement, Admiral didnt consider that this was due to storm damage. It reached this
conclusion as it said that cement wouldnt be damaged by a one-off storm and had instead
degraded over a period. Admiral said that such damage wasnt covered under Mr Ss policy.
Admirals loss adjuster said that other areas of the roof were missing cement due to gradual
process loss and were therefore not covered by the policy. He thought that this was the
likely reason for the contractor installing such extensive scaffolding. Admirals in-house
surveyor had reviewed the matter and considered such scaffolding to be overkill. Admiral
concluded that cement which held down ridge tiles wouldnt be damaged by a one-off storm
event. It also thought that a scaffolding tower would have ensured safety just as well as full
scaffolding. It said that as the customer had the works completed it was taken out of our
hands and we feel that we have paid is reasonable. However, it suggested splitting the
difference in costs to resolve matters as it didnt consider it was wholly responsible.
I now turn to what Admiral have said about service issues. It didnt think there had been any
errors in the service received by Mr S, however it didnt specifically respond to Mr Ss
complaint that Admiral and its agents failed to phone Mr S back when it said it would.
Admirals telephone records havent been supplied.
Ive carefully considered all relevant evidence and submissions. I note that when Mr S
reported the storm damage to Admiral in February 2022, he was advised to make the roof
secure and watertight, and he wasnt directed or advised by Admiral as to the type of
scaffolding needed. He was able to secure the services of a contractor and Im satisfied that
this was necessary to prevent further danger both to the public and to the property itself.
Admiral thought that as Mr S had the works completed it was taken out of our hands and we
feel that we have paid is reasonable. However, I consider that this is an unfair portrayal of
the facts, as it had advised him to go ahead to make the roof watertight and secure and a
loss adjuster wasnt able to attend until some weeks later and after repairs had been
completed.
The contractor stated that full scaffolding was needed to carry out this work. I note that the
work was carried out promptly and during the winter months. Ive also noted the contractors
health and safety concerns and I consider these concerns to be fair and reasonable bearing
in mind the nature of the work. At the time that the roof repairs were taking place, no
contemporaneous assessment had been carried out by Admiral as to the damage
attributable to the storm. The contractor made it clear however that in his view, the ridge tiles
were blown off due to the storm, and then dislodged other tiles in a domino effect. I find this
evidence to be persuasive.
There is a general exclusion in Mr Ss policy for gradual causes, or anything that happens
gradually, such as wear and tear. However, I consider on a provisional basis and on the
balance of probabilities that damage didnt occur gradually in this instance. On a provisional
basis, I conclude that the predominant cause of the damage, loosening of tiles and looseningof the cement all occurred in a domino effect as a result of the storm. I appreciate that its
often the case that storm damage highlights disrepair which has happened gradually. Here
however, its likely that due to the evidenced ferocity of the storm that the loss of tiles had a
destabilising effect on a wider area of tiling than the immediate area of loss. Our investigator
checked relevant records and noted that wind speeds had reached 78 mph on the relevant
date. Admirals own records similarly note violent storm force gusts and 76 mph winds.
In all the circumstances and on a provisional basis, I consider that Admiral hasnt settle this
claim in a fair and reasonable manner, and Im minded to require Admiral to cover the total
cost of the works. This would include the whole of the cost of the scaffolding costs being
£2,400 less £1,200 already paid, together with £1,800 for the work element less the sum of
just over £600 already paid.
As to service issues, Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ss version of events in this respect and he
provided a detailed timeline which supported his complaint. Nevertheless, following a storm
event of this nature, I appreciate that its not always possible for insurers to immediately
appoint a loss adjuster for every affected property. Also, whilst its unfortunate that Admiral
didnt make expected telephone calls, on a provisional basis, I dont consider that this merits
an additional compensatory award.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both Admiral and Mr S if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following a review of the provisional decision, Admiral said it could agree to the findings.
Mr S said that there were a couple of things in the provisional decision which needed to be 
changed. He said that reference to 'two other contractors' should read 'the other contractor'
As to the sentence in the provisional decision which reads: - However, I consider that this is 
an unfair portrayal of the facts, as it had advised him to go ahead to make the roof watertight 
and secure and a loss adjuster wasnt able to attend until some weeks later and after repairs 
had been completed he considered that the sentence should finish at some weeks later.
In all the circumstances, having noted and accepted the amendments put forward by Mr S, 
Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do the following: -
Reimburse Mr S for the whole of the costs of works and scaffolding being £4,200 less all
amounts already paid by Admiral.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman