DRN-4115133
The complaint
Mr S and Miss W complaint UIA (Insurance) Limited unreasonably withdrew funding for a 
claim they made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint. It 
does not therefore provide all of the detail or is it a detailed timeline of events.
Mr S and Miss W became aware that an adverse possession application had been 
registered for land next to their property. Mr S and Miss W contacted UIA to make a claim for 
assistance with legal costs to object to the application.
UIA accepted the claim and agreed to appoint Mr S and Miss Ws preferred solicitors. The 
solicitors proceeded to deal with the claim, in line with the relevant deadlines set by the Land 
Registry. Approximately six months into the claim UIA withdrew funding for the claim saying 
a mistake had been made and that cover shouldnt have been provided at the start. It said 
following a review of counsels opinion there appears to be no ongoing trespass, so no cover 
is provided under the policy. Mr S and Miss W did not accept this and complained but UIA 
did not change its position. They then brought the complaint to this service.
Mr S and Miss W have said the solicitor stopped acting for them when UIA withdrew cover 
and they had to seek alternative representation to continue with the ongoing legal action. In 
the meantime, they have funded the claim privately and the matter is still ongoing.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 12 April 2023. I said I intended to uphold the complaint. In 
summary, I made the following points:
The policy terms do not include a requirement of ongoing trespass so UIA cant 
introduce this as a condition to withdraw cover on the claim. 
I was satisfied adverse possession is intrinsically linked to trespass, and in the way 
this claim is presented, Im satisfied it would fall for cover under trespass in the 
policy. 
Counsels opinion has been able to differentiate between different parcels of land and 
therefore Im satisfied there is proof of where boundaries are as required by the 
policy. 
Counsel gives Mr S and Miss W more than 51% chance of proving ownership and 
defeating at least part of the application. And with an assumption being met, they 
believe a further aspect also has more than a 51% chance of success. 
To put things right I said UIA should arrange to again provide cover under the policy for the 
legal claim and put right the losses Mr S and Miss W had suffered in the meantime.  I said it 
should also pay them £500 compensation.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr S and Miss W said they accepted my provisional findings but have concerns about my 
proposed remedy and how quickly it will be implemented. They say they have, in the past, 
experienced delays in UIAs handling of the matter. And they are concerned how this will 
impact the claim going forward and UIAs willingness to agree terms with their solicitor of 
choice. They are concerned their legal claim will be prejudiced as a result. 
They ask that UIA not be entrusted with responsibility of negotiating terms with their solicitor. 
And, that as they hold UIA responsible for losing the opportunity to settle the claim at an 
earlier stage, that I direct UIA, should it be needed, to cover the third partys costs outside 
the limit of indemnity.
UIA disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary it said that adverse possession and 
trespass are separate. And it maintains that no actual trespass has occurred, the boundary 
line is not proven and, Mr S and Miss W do not meet the policy requirement of owning the 
land in question. It quotes part of counsels opinion in order to support this assertion.
It says it accidently accepted cover for adverse possession however this is not mentioned in 
the policy as an insured event. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion set out in my provisional findings for the same 
reasons.
I explained in my provisional findings I was satisfied that counsel has set out Mr S and 
Miss W should more likely than not be able to show ownership of the land and that different 
parcels of land can be easily identified from the information held. As such, Im satisfied the 
policy requirement of needing to own the land and the boundary being known is met. 
Having read all of counsels opinion, I note the specific sentence UIA has referred to is 
contained within the section of the document titled background. Counsel then goes on to 
detail their analysis of all of the evidence available and why they are of the opinion that Mr S 
and Miss W have prospects of success in defeating the adverse possession application. So, 
overall, I am not persuaded that this sentence, taken in isolation, overrides the rest of the 
opinion counsel set out. 
I similarly set out in my provisional findings why I thought adverse possession and trespass 
were linked. Im satisfied that a threat to the ownership of the land, through adverse 
possession, is enough to be considered as trespass. UIA has said there has been no actual 
trespass, by that I assume it means physical trespass. However here, again, I will point UIA 
to its policy terms. It does not state physical trespass and so it cant introduce this as a 
condition to decline the claim.
UIA has said Mr S and Miss W could revisit a claim of trespass once, and if, they are 
declared owners of the land at the conclusion of this claim. However, Mr S and Miss W wont 
realistically be able to revisit this. I accept that as part of the natural course of this claim 
formal ownership of the parcels of land in question will be established. However, it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable, based on counsels opinion of their prospects of proving ownership, to deny them the funding now to object to the adverse possession application, as this is 
something Im satisfied falls for cover.
So, for the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional decision. I uphold this 
complaint. 
While I understand Mr S and Miss Ws concerns, I wont be making any direction on what 
costs UIA should pay going forward as it is entitled to seek an agreement with the solicitors 
as it would normally do. This is set down in the policy terms and it wouldnt be reasonable to 
go against this. 
Similarly, I wont be making any direction that UIA should be held responsible for the third 
parties costs, if required, at the conclusion of the claim. Mr S and Miss W are entitled to 
cover, and this should be dealt with in the usual way. The conclusion of the legal claim is 
unknown and therefore it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make any direction on this here.
Should there be any further issues with the insurance claim, and if Mr S and Miss W are 
unhappy, they would be entitled to make a further complaint.
Putting things right
Bearing in mind the time sensitive nature of the action, UIA should act promptly and do the 
following to put things right:
Subject to Mr S and Miss W repaying the applicable excess, UIA should again provide cover 
for reasonable legal costs up to the indemnity limit of the policy.
As Mr S and Miss W have privately funded legal action in the meantime, UIA will need to 
arrange to reimburse the reasonable legal costs that Mr S and Miss W incurred in full. They 
should add interest at 8% simple per annum on this amount from the date(s) the payments 
were made to the date of settlement.
Given Mr S and Miss W would not have been able to benefit from the reduced rates 
agreements insurers are generally able to negotiate. And due to UIAs error they had no 
option but to seek other representation, I dont think it would be reasonable for the full 
amount (above) to be deducted from Mr S and Miss Ws indemnity limit.
UIA will therefore need to obtain details of the work undertaken in the meantime and, 
applying the rates it agreed with the previous solicitor, work out how much of the indemnity 
limit would have been used in the intervening period. Once UIA has worked out that amount, 
it would be entitled to deduct the same from the indemnity limit. 
UIA will then need to make contact with Mr S and Miss Ws current solicitors to see if they 
can reach an agreement on the costs for funding the ongoing claim. 
UIA should also pay Mr S and Miss W £500 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset its 
error caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S and Miss Ws complaint against UIA (Insurance) 
Limited. I direct UIA (Insurance) Limited to put things right as I have set out in the section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman