DRN-3972589
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited failed to properly administer a credit card applied for 
without his knowledge and delayed the removal of it from his credit record.
What happened
A credit card was opened in Mr Rs name by his ex-partner and had operated for a few years 
before he became aware of it. It had been managed within its credit limit and the monthly 
repayments made on time. Theres no debt associated with this card that Mr Rs being 
pursued for.
The final payment by his ex-partner took place in May 2022 and a few days later Mr R 
contacted MBNA about it to close the account. At the time, Mr R didnt wish for the issue to 
be logged as fraud. 
MBNA thought theyd closed the account, although it later appeared it hadnt been closed. 
No further activity was carried out on the account after the final payment in May 2022.
The issue was revisited later that year and around September 2022, Mr R spoke with MBNA 
about the account which at that point was still open. MBNA again closed the account and 
backdated it to the original request made by Mr R. He asked for the issue to be dealt with as 
fraud and made a complaint in October 2022. Part of this was about the handling of a call Mr 
R had had with an MBNA employee.
MBNA accepted that theyd let Mr R down with how theyd administered the closure of the 
account and offered £60 compensation. Mr R also wanted a copy of his records and MBNA 
undertook to provide this as a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). This was later sent to 
the address originally shared with his ex-partner, causing Mr R to have to visit the address 
on several occasions to obtain the DSAR. Mr R eventually received a copy of the DSAR.
Later in October, Mr R was speaking with the fraud team and his call got cut off. MBNA 
acknowledged that they should have followed up with this through a manager call based on 
the difficulties Mr R experienced. MBNA have said they decided to add Mr Rs other 
experiences to his overall complaint as opposed to it being closed in error (which Mr R  
thought had happened).
A series of conversations were held over the next few days to resolve the outstanding 
matters. MBNA told Mr R that their assessment of his claim for fraud wasnt backed up by 
the way the card was opened and used. They thought because it had been opened with the 
correct address, email and phone numbers and had been used normally without any debt 
being created, it didnt appear as fraudulent. They offered Mr R the opportunity to add any 
other evidence which theyd consider.
Almost straight away, Mr R provided copies of messages hed exchanged with his ex-partner 
which made it clear she was responsible for the application and the spending. 
MBNA accepted that Mr R had experienced poor service and made a further payment of 
£100 for compensation, £25 to pay for a protective fraud prevention marker and £34 for a 
mail re-direct from the old address.
MBNA processed the account as fraud which meant it should disappear from Mr Rs credit 
record because he was never responsible for it. MBNA told Mr R they wouldnt provide a 
refund of any of the payments as they believed they had come from his ex-partner, which 
meant Mr R hadnt been out of pocket. Its Mr Rs case that his ex-partner accessed his bank 
account and transferred his funds so she could settle the MBNA account.
Mr R remained unhappy with how MBNA had dealt with his issues and brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who considered evidence 
provided by both parties. The investigator thought that whilst MBNA had let Mr R down with 
their handling of the complaint, they had provided sufficient compensation and costs to 
recognise the poor service. A recommendation was made to remove the account from the 
credit file because it was still showing as closed (giving the impression that it had been a 
legitimate account owned by Mr R).
Mr R disagreed with the outcome and made further submissions:
He believed MBNA had told him the account would be removed from his credit file 
the previous year, and it was still open. 
He believed the compensation should be higher.
He believed the credit card listing on his credit file could had caused a loan to be 
turned down.
He thought the issue of the missent DSAR was underplayed and could have caused 
humiliation to Mr R.
The investigator responded to Mr R with the following:
When Mr R first dealt with MBNA about the card, it was to close it rather than be 
dealt with as fraud. Thats why it initially appeared as closed. 
Its accepted that MBNA failed to properly remove it once Mr R asked them to treat it 
as fraud.
It wasnt possible to determine if the loan was turned down as a result of this credit 
card being present on Mr Rs credit. There were other similar issues Mr R was 
dealing with that may have been responsible.
The compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
It was accepted that MBNA had failed to properly deal with how to deliver the DSAR 
to Mr R and there wasnt any intention to underplay it. But it was also thought that 
MBNA had addressed their failures. 
Mr R wanted his complaint reviewing and MBNA added further comments about the 
situation, saying:
There was a delay of one to two months before the account was removed from Mr 
Rs credit file. The credit card was well maintained by the user, it was paid on time and no adverse 
information was generated. The reporting of the credit file reflected that and would 
likely be seen as positive rather than anything detrimental. They didnt believe it 
would have impacted the car loan without further evidence to show it was 
responsible.
They accepted theyd incorrectly sent the DSAR to an old address, but believed 
theyd responded appropriately with additional safeguards. They didnt believe there 
was any evidence that the information was accessed by unauthorised persons. 
Mr R wanted to provide further information and was given an additional period of time in 
which to do so. Nothing further was received from Mr R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having examined the evidence provided by both parties, its apparent that a credit card was 
applied for in Mr Rs name. It operated for a few years without issue and was managed in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. That meant, as far as MBNA were 
concerned, there were no particular red flags about the account, either when it was opened 
or how it was used.
I appreciate Mr R thinks that it was lax of MBNA to allow it to be opened but considering the 
relationship of who opened and used it, its not particularly surprising they had the correct 
details to give MBNA to open the account.
Its Mr Rs case that the funds that paid off the monthly bill came from his own account. Ive 
not seen any evidence of that so cant really comment. But, considering the account ran for 
about three years, its surprising that Mr R didnt notice the payments leaving his account in 
that time and question them with his ex-partner.
Once Mr R advised MBNA about it, he wanted the issue dealt with as a closure rather than 
as a fraud. There were implications for his ex-partner if it was dealt with as fraud and Mr R 
wasnt prepared, at that point to go down that line.
So, when closing an account, it would still appear on the credit file as though it was a 
legitimate account operated by Mr R. That wasnt the case and later, Mr R decided that it 
should be removed from his account, to reflect that hed never operated the card, and asked 
for it to be dealt with as fraud. 
MBNAs view was that it didnt look like fraud because of how it was used and asked Mr R 
for more information. He provided copies of messages from his ex-partner that indicated she 
was responsible for it. MBNA then changed their opinion and accepted that it was 
fraudulently opened. MBNA declined to refund Mr R because they believed the money had 
come from the ex-partners account.
Throughout the process, MBNAs administration of Mr Rs issue was less than perfect. They 
delayed his request to close the account, failed to call him back, sent the DSAR to the wrong 
address and latterly delayed the removal of the account from his credit file. Mr R had also 
raised the service he received on a call with a fraud specialist. Whilst the call couldnt be 
found, MBNA raised feedback with the fraud specialists manager concerning service given 
to customers.Whilst they havent given the service Im sure they wish they had, they did acknowledge their 
failures and provided various expenses and payments to Mr R. In total, MBNA paid £160 
compensation and £59 for a mail redirect and fraud prevention membership. 
I understand Mr R was unhappy with MBNA and argued that the issue had impacted his 
ability to obtain further credit. Theres little doubt here that MBNAs service was lacking, but 
theres no evidence that the presence of the credit card on his credit file caused any issues 
with his ability to obtain credit. The evidence presented by MBNA was that the account was 
well managed and would have been seen positively. Its difficult to be certain what impact 
this particular card had on Mr Rs credit file but considering there were other issues he was 
dealing with, I think this card was unlikely to have been the reason for other credit problems.
As far as Im aware, the original DSAR wasnt given to anyone else and Mr Rs comments 
about it relate to potential impacts on him. I dont underestimate the inconvenience here, as 
Mr R had to visit the address on several occasions to deal with the misdirected DSAR. There 
would undoubtedly have been worry and stress associated with the DSAR potentially falling 
into the hands of other persons. I think MBNAs response was reasonable here, in both the 
additional compensation and the mail redirect and funds to lodge a marker with a fraud 
prevention agency. 
Overall, I dont doubt that the whole experience for Mr R was stressful. It appears that the 
original request to close the account was made to lessen the impact on his ex-partner, 
delaying the eventual removal of the account from Mr Rs credit file. There was no debt 
resulting from its use and its apparent that MBNA made several missteps when dealing with 
the closure and later removal of the account from Mr Rs credit file. I do think their response 
was reasonable and the various steps they took to counter their earlier mistakes was a fair 
way for them to recognise the unnecessary stress and inconvenience they caused to Mr R. 
Putting things right
The complaint is upheld due to the delay in removing the account from Mr Rs credit file, 
although I recognise that MBNA have since completed it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited. I refer to the above 
paragraph relating to the settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman