DRN-1884672
The complaint
Mr B complains that he didnt receive a £75 incentive after he referred a friend to open a new 
account with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 June 2020. In my provisional decision I explained that I had reached a 
different decision to the investigator and didn't intend to uphold Mr B's complaint. I said: 
What happened
Mr B was an existing customer and in August 2019 he referred a friend to TSB to open an
account. Mr B hoped to receive an incentive of £75 under TSBs refer a friend promotion.
But Mr B later complained as he didnt receive the incentive.
TSB responded on 22 August 2019 but didnt agree it had made a mistake. TSB said that
the refer a friend incentive was only paid if the application was made online. But Mr Bs
friend had opened an account in branch which meant no incentive would be paid.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld
the complaint and awarded £25 as they felt it was likely Mr B had made it clear when he
visited the branch that the application his friend was making was to qualify for the £75
incentive. TSB didnt agree and said the application Mr Bs friend made didnt qualify for the
incentive. TSB asked to appeal so this complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B is upset. Its clear that Mr B thought both he and his friend would
receive the incentive following the application in branch. But Ive reached a different decision 
to the investigator, I dont agree this complaint should be upheld. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B 
but, from what Ive seen, it appears the situation occurred due to a genuine
misunderstanding rather than any error by TSB.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint because she thought he made it clear that his
friend was visiting the branch to open a new account and receive the refer a friend incentive.
But, in TSBs response it provided a call recording. The call recording is between Mr B and
TSBs complaint handler. During the call the complaint handler asked whether Mr B or his
friend had made it clear to the branch staff that they expected to qualify for the incentive. Mr
B responded to say that he didnt think his friend had made it clear when they applied.
So whilst I understand why Mr B thought he would qualify for the incentive, I havent been
persuaded he made that expectation clear to TSB when he visited the branch with his friend.There are many reasons for people to open a bank account with a particular business. I
wouldnt expect TSB to have known Mr B and his friend were applying to receive the refer a
friend incentive just because they were opening a new account.
The terms that set out how someone qualifies for the refer a friend incentive are clear and
require the application to be completed online. As the application here was completed in
branch it didnt qualify for the incentive. As Ive said above, I dont think TSBs branch staff
were aware that Mr Bs friend was opening a new account to qualify for the £75 incentive. So 
I wouldnt have expected Mr B or his friend to have been notified that no incentive would be 
paid if the account was opened in branch.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B as I think this complaint has arisen due to a genuine
misunderstanding. But I can only uphold a complaint and award compensation if I think a
business has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly. I havent seen any evidence
that TSB acted in error or that its decision not to pay Mr B the incentive was unfair. As a
result, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr B and TSB to send me any additional comments they wanted me to take into 
account before I made my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B responded and raised concerns with this service's approach to his complaint and the 
time it's taken us to reach a decision. I appreciate Mr B has waited a long time for a decision  
and I apologise. I understand my provisional decision not to uphold his complaint was 
disappointing. I'd like to assure Mr B that I've made my decision based on the available 
evidence provided by both him and TSB. I can only award compensation where I'm satisfied 
a business has made a mistake. But the information Mr B and TSB have submitted doesn't 
show an error was made. 
TSB responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that 
TSB didn't make an error and that it has dealt with Mr B's complaint fairly. I'm not telling TSB 
to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman