DRN-4117011
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service hes received from Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr G was dissatisfied with how Nationwide handled a call, so he complained. Mr G was 
dissatisfied with how the complaint about the call was handled, so he complained. Mr G was 
dissatisfied with Nationwides reviews of the complaint handling (particularly a comment from 
Nationwide about if he considered its service terrible, he might want to consider if it was the 
right provider for him) so he complained. Mr G raised these matters with our Service as three 
separate complaints. This final decision addresses them all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call from which this matter stems. Mr G complains, broadly, that he was 
asked too many questions, some questions were irrelevant, and he didnt get the help he 
wanted. I dont agree. Im satisfied the questions were of a reasonable number and were 
relevant to the subject matter being discussed. Im satisfied it was reasonable for the 
Nationwide advisor to offer to book (and later did book for the following morning) Mr G a time 
with a mortgage advisor, since he wanted mortgage advice. And Im satisfied she was polite 
and constructive throughout, unlike Mr G. There is no merit to this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr Gs other points of dissatisfaction are with how his complaint(s) were handled. Our 
Service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint thats referred to it. Our rules 
for what complaints we can consider are set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook (DISP). DISP 2.3.1 sets out our Service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more 
regulated or other covered activities, or any ancillary activity carried on by the firm in 
connection with them. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity or other covered activity, 
or an ancillary activity. This is confirmed in case law, see R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2017]. It follows our service does not have the power to 
consider Mr Gs dissatisfaction with how Nationwide handled his complaint(s).
Mr G has complained about almost every interaction with Nationwide and our service, almost 
all of which I have found (or been found by others) to be baseless. And Im aware Mr G 
made a comment to our Investigator about him wanting to teach Nationwide a lesson. Mr G 
should be aware that our Service has the power to dismiss a complaint without considering 
its merits if we find it frivolous or vexatious (as this complaint arguably is), or if we find doing 
so would seriously impair the effective operation of our service (which dealing with repeated 
frivolous or vexatious complaints about our Service likely would). 
My final decision
I dont uphold the part of this complaint I can consider as it has no merit.
 
I dont have the power to consider the other parts.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman