DRN-1474499
 
The complaint
Mr C, Mrs C and Mrs G complain about what happened when Mrs C went into a branch of 
Nationwide Building Society to take some money out of their joint account.
What happened
Mr C, Mrs C and Mrs G had a joint savings account with Nationwide. Mrs C has brought this 
complaint on behalf of them all. 
Mrs C went to a branch to take some money out. But Nationwide wouldnt let her access the 
money. She said she was told there was a problem with the two other account holders. The 
branch spoke to Mr C on the phone, but Mrs G was later told she would have to come into a 
branch. 
Mrs C objected to how Mrs G, who is elderly, was treated in the branch. She said the staff 
had no soft skills, and didnt treat Mrs G appropriately, considering her age. Mrs C still wasnt 
able to take money out that day. She returned another day and cleared out the account, but 
wasnt able to take all the money in cash. Mrs C said she was complaining about 
bureaucracy, timewasting and non-existent customer service. 
Nationwide said that this saving account had been restricted as a result of new regulations in 
2017. Those required all Nationwides members to have confirmed ID for their accounts. 
Nationwide said it had written to Mr C, Mrs C and Mrs G about that at the time. 
Nationwide said it still needed further ID from Mrs G, when Mrs C went into branch in June 
2019 to take out some money. So the branch staff hadnt made a decision to refuse the 
payment, they werent able to remove the restriction on the account. 
Nationwide said when Mrs C and Mrs G returned to the branch, the staff had to check 
relevant id. They can ask to see bank cards as part of the checking process. The staff hadnt 
intended to be rude. It had been necessary to move to a different room, because the one 
where Mrs C and Mrs G were seated was booked, and the meeting took longer than 
expected. Nationwide also said it takes some time for a restriction like this to be removed 
from the system, which is why Mrs C wasnt able to take out money the same day. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Nationwide had 
written to all its customers in 2017 to say that proof of ID and their address was required. It 
had shown us this letter. She said Nationwide was allowed to restrict accounts for security 
reasons. She said it was difficult to comment on how Mrs C and Mrs G were treated in the 
branch, as she wasnt there. Nationwide had investigated, as our investigator thought it 
should. But our investigator didnt feel she could say, from the evidence she had, that either 
party was at fault. Our investigator said that Mrs C was given a cheque when she closed the account, because 
Nationwide didnt have enough cash available for her to take. Mrs C wanted our service to 
tell Nationwide to review some of its procedures, but thats not the role of our service. 
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence to show that Nationwide had done anything 
wrong. So she wouldnt ask it to do anything in response to this complaint. 
Mrs C, on behalf of all the complainants, didnt agree. She said that branch staff were rude, 
and in her opinion, being awkward. She said she was even asked what she was drawing the 
money out for, which wasnt acceptable. She said branch staff werent prepared to look back 
at past withdrawals to check signatures, and were making excuses for their own poor 
service. Mrs C wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Nationwide has shown us the letter it sent to all customers in 2017. That set out why 
Nationwide was asking for additional identification from its customers, and what to do in 
response to the letter. And, importantly, the letter also explained that if the requested ID 
wasnt required, a restriction would be put on the account. 
Nationwide has said that it didnt receive additional ID for Mrs G, so her account was 
restricted. I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to take this step when its not been 
able to confirm the ID of its customers. 
Mrs C took Mrs G into a branch to confirm her ID. I know that Mrs C is very unhappy with 
how branch staff treated them. But, like our investigator, I think its difficult to tell what 
happened without first-hand knowledge of the events of the day. 
There are some things that both sides agree on. For instance, Mrs C and Mrs G were asked 
to move to another room partway through their discussions. But Nationwide says that was 
only because theyd initially been seated in a teleconferencing room. When the meeting went 
on longer than anticipated, they were asked to move because a call was booked coming into 
the room that they were in. It doesnt seem as if this was explained to Mrs C and Mrs G at 
the time, and I think it may have helped if Nationwide had explained this. But I dont think I 
can say, on the evidence Ive seen, that Nationwide staff were at fault here. 
Ive also seen the internal request for the block on Mrs Gs account to be removed, and 
Nationwides policy on cash withdrawals. I dont think that staff were being obstructive by 
failing to remove the block immediately. They had to ask another team to do this, they 
werent able to take that step themselves. And they arent able to give out the amount of 
money that was in the account in cash. 
Mrs C also objected to being asked what she was taking the money out for. But a lot of 
banks will ask what a large withdrawal is for. Staff may ask questions about large cash 
withdrawals as a way of trying to prevent customers being scammed.
Ive considered the events that occurred. As our investigator said, its difficult to know what 
happened when I wasnt there, although Nationwide has provided some explanations. Overall, on the evidence we have, Im unable to decide conclusively that its more likely the 
service Mrs C and Mrs G received in branch was poor. For those reasons, although I know 
Mrs C will be disappointed, Im not able to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mrs C and 
Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman