DRN-3505972
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund several transactions that she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mrs A was contacted by Santander who were concerned about activity on her account on 
the same day that Mrs A had been to a local branch to get a new debit card . 
Several conversations were held with Mrs A about numerous transactions and a loan that 
had been paid into her account. The loan was applied for with another company and Mrs A 
advised Santander that she knew nothing about this. 
Santander asked about certain card payments made whilst Mrs A was on holiday, including 
a large transaction made at a jewellers and cash withdrawals. Mrs A confirmed shed made 
these transactions. She later denied making these (ATM) transactions and explained that 
she thought the payment to the jewellers was for a much smaller sum. 
Mrs A was asked about payments made to various individuals and told Santander that shed 
made some of them, but not others. Santander explained to Mrs A that these disputed 
transactions were made using her registered mobile phone through her mobile banking app 
and various One Time Passcodes (OTP) had been sent to her phone to confirm these 
payments. Mrs A didnt recognise these transactions and insisted that shed made some of 
them whilst visiting a branch but hadnt used her mobile banking application on her phone.
Mrs A explained that shed had a very difficult time due to various personal and family 
problems which had focussed her attention elsewhere. But, she hadnt made all the 
transactions from her account and couldnt offer any explanation about how theyd 
happened. She confirmed to Santander that she hadnt told anyone about her security 
credentials (passcodes/security information) for her account or the PIN for her card. 
There were two transactions made to the same account using Mrs As online banking. Mrs A 
denied using this to set up the payment and only agreed that shed made one of the 
payments to a friend who shed known for several years. Mrs A thought this person was 
abroad, but the payment was made to another bank in the UK. Santander asked the 
receiving bank about the account the money had been sent to and it was confirmed it was in 
the name of Mrs As friend. Mrs A continued to deny shed made a second large payment to 
the same account. Santander explained to Mrs A that the payments were made a few 
minutes apart using her mobile banking app, but Mrs A continued to insist she made only 
one payment whilst visiting a branch. 
Santander considered whether Mrs A had been scammed  tricked into making the payment 
and there was also the possibility that her account had been taken over because of the loan 
application. Santander also advised Mrs A that a second application for a loan had been 
made to Santander but was unsuccessful. Mrs A denied having anything to do with this.
Santander and Mrs A continued to have discussions about what had happened. It was 
unclear to Santander if they were looking into a scam or a fraud investigation. This was 
important because different rules apply. Eventually Mrs A told Santander that she hadnt 
made either of the payments she was disputing (amongst others) using her mobile phone. 
Santander explained that if Mrs A was denying she made them, this wouldnt be a scam. It 
was recommended that the police be informed, which Mrs A later did. 
Santander continued their investigation and thought Mrs A was responsible for these 
transactions. Santander declined to make a refund and Mrs A complained. The complaint 
was investigated, but Santander didnt change their position. 
Mrs A then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for further 
information. Mrs A, through a representative was asked to clarify which specific transactions 
she was disputing because it was still unclear. A list was produced by Mrs A which included 
transactions that she had earlier accepted shed made when speaking with Santander. 
Mrs A then updated the list of disputed transactions, and the remaining payments included 
three card transactions whilst Mrs A was abroad and three online payments to two different 
accounts. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Santander to hold Mrs A liable for the disputed 
transactions and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators outcome and explained that the police believed her 
card had been cloned and she was the victim of fraud. Mrs A asked for a review of her 
complaint which has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A was ultimately able to say that she disputed six transactions made from her account. 
Three of those were made whilst she was abroad and used the genuine card with its PIN to 
carry out the transactions. The other three were made using Mrs As online banking. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
where credit is used, the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Santander 
can hold Mrs A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs A authorised 
the transactions, but Santander cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of 
mobile internet banking conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
This is in line with the FCAs position, as outlined in its document setting out its role under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. The FCA says: 
To avoid doubt, it is not sufficient for the PSP to assert that the customer must have 
divulged the personalised security features of the payment instrument, and to effectively 
require the customer to prove that he did not. The burden of proof lies with the PSP and if a 
claim that a transaction is unauthorised is rejected, the rejection must be supported by 
sufficient evidence to prove that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or 
intentional breach and the reason for the rejection must be explained to the customer. Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs As account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. 
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mrs A. Santander 
werent able to provide some details of the large payment made whilst abroad, but they 
believe this used Mrs As card and PIN because of the type of transaction and the amount. 
Mrs A herself confirmed shed made this purchase in conversation with Santander, but later 
said she thought she was paying a much smaller amount. So, Im satisfied the payment was 
authenticated. 
Because the transactions were properly authenticated by the payment tools issued to Mrs A, 
Im satisfied that Santander had the appropriate instructions with which to carry out the 
transactions on her behalf. But, Ill now go one to consider if sufficient evidence has been 
provided to show that Mrs A consented to the transactions. 
Regarding the cash withdrawals and the payment to the jewellers, Mrs A originally confirmed 
to Santander that shed made these payments herself whilst on holiday. Santanders records 
indicate that Mrs As card was used with its PIN to withdraw cash. But Mrs A has referred to 
a police investigation and speculated that her card had been cloned. 
Santanders records dont support this, and Mrs A has said to Santander that she made 
these transactions whilst abroad. Mrs A later clarified that she thought shed been 
overcharged by the jewellers, so I think it was Mrs As genuine card that was used to make 
these transactions and not a cloned card, because any cloned card would more than likely 
be used by an unidentified third party rather than Mrs A herself. 
Mrs A then thought she was overcharged at the jewellers; but because Mrs A completed the 
payment process with her card and PIN  she would still be liable for the transaction 
because she intended to make it. I think it was reasonable for Santander to process her 
payment. I think the three transactions Mrs A has disputed made whilst she was abroad 
were more likely than not made by Mrs A using her genuine card and not a cloned one. 
I cant comment directly about a police investigation, as criminal investigations are a matter 
for the law enforcement authorities. Although Im aware that the police believed the matter 
was outside of their jurisdiction, so its unclear what investigation would have been carried 
out by them. 
The three remaining payments were all made using Mrs As mobile banking app and used 
her registered mobile phone to confirm OTPs. Mrs A has denied making these payments or 
knowing who these recipients were. Santander carried out enquiries on Mrs As behalf and 
received information about one of the accounts. Having seen that evidence, Im satisfied that 
there were links between Mrs A and one of these recipients, which appears to contradict Mrs 
As version of events. 
It's seems unlikely to me that payments could have been made using Mrs As mobile phone 
and her security information without her knowledge. Theres no explanation how someone 
could have obtained this information or the phone on several occasions to set up these 
payments. It seems as though at least one of the recipients was known to Mrs A and I cant 
think of a plausible reason why anyone else would send them money from her account. Its 
not known if the second recipient was known to Mrs A, but the evidence provided by 
Santander shows it was Mrs As account and device used to make the payments. It was 
reasonable for Santander to hold Mrs A liable for them because I think its more likely than 
not that Mrs A was responsible for making the transactions or allowing others to do them on her behalf. 
I accept that Mrs A received a letter from the loan company who didnt think Mrs A was 
responsible for it and they agreed to remove any liability for the loan. But that doesnt 
change my thinking about the transactions shes disputed against Santander. There have 
been several inconsistencies with Mrs As version of events, but overall, the evidence points 
to Mrs As own devices and security information being used to make them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman