DRN-2233353
The complaint
Miss H complains that Zenith Insurance plc settled a claim on her motor insurance policy 
without investigating it properly.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss H told Zenith that her car had rolled into the rear of another car at a 
roundabout. Zenith told her later that the other driver had claimed that the impact happened 
at 30 miles an hour, on a dual carriageway. The other drivers solicitors said that there was 
£1,234.56 of damage to the car and that a child who was travelling in it was injured. Miss H 
said if Zenith had investigated the claim, it would have found that the circumstances shed 
reported were accurate. There was no damage or personal injury to anyone.
Zeniths solicitors told Miss H that despite her having raised concerns about the accidents 
circumstances, they didnt think disputing the claim would succeed in court. They said there 
was medical evidence of the personal injury. Miss H again disputed that there was any 
damage to the car from the accident and said shed provided a photo to prove it. She said 
she didnt see a child at the scene. Miss H accepted that she was to blame for the accident, 
but she was really upset at being accused of causing personal injury, especially to a child.  
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Hs complaint. She said that under the policy, Zenith 
had the right to settle the claim as it thought fit. It told Miss H in May 2019 that it would have 
to settle any claim made by the other driver, as Miss H had accepted liability for the accident. 
In doing so, it relied on legal advice, which was given after the other drivers solicitors 
provided medical evidence and proof of the damage to the other drivers car. The 
investigator thought Zenith had acted reasonably in dealing with the claim as it did. Miss H 
disagreed with the investigators view, although she didnt explain why.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, the policy gives Zenith the right to settle any claim 
in the way it thinks best. We only interfere with an insurers discretion in doing that if we think 
it has acted unreasonably.
 
I think Miss H set out her account of the accident in a credible way, and I have no doubt that 
she believes she caused no damage to the other drivers car or to a passenger. I can see 
why she was incredulous and distressed when she was told about the alternative version of 
events. But Zenith can only base its decisions on the available evidence. Theres nothing to 
show that it didnt consider the facts described by Miss H as part of the decision process.  
Miss H accepted from the start that she was responsible for the accident, and if her car 
rolled into the car in front, there was some contact with it. So the dispute was limited to 
whether any damage was caused. I dont think Zenith could reasonably have disputed the 
repair invoice that was presented. It showed the cost of the damage to the part of the car 
Miss H said her car had touched - and gave a breakdown of the parts that needed to be 
repaired. The figure stated wasnt plucked out of thin air, as Miss H had suspected.
I can see why a repair sum over £1,200 may have seemed shocking to Miss H, especially 
when she believed there was no damage to the car at all. But I think its fair to say that, in 
terms of general repair costs for cars, that sum is relatively small. The photos Ive seen 
appear to show some damage to the car, which an engineer assessed as new damage. 
 
Zeniths solicitors explained to Miss H that damage of the level shown to the other drivers 
car was above the threshold at which personal injury claims can succeed in court. And there 
was medical evidence of the injury and of the treatment given to deal with it. I think it was fair 
for Zenith to conclude that it would have been very difficult to challenge that evidence.
 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Zenith to decide (having taken 
legal advice) that it had no option but to settle the claim on the best possible terms. We dont 
think its fair to expect insurers to defend claims if theres no reasonable prospect of doing so 
successfully in court. I think that was the situation Zenith was faced with in this case.
Miss Hs future premiums are likely to be affected by the fact that she has a fault claim on 
her record, but that would have been the case regardless of the overall cost of the claim.
Although I understand why Miss H finds it hard to accept the outcome, in my opinion, Zenith 
acted reasonably in the way it dealt with the claim, so I cant uphold her complaint.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman