DRN-4065510
The complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wouldnt refund 
payments she didnt make and says that it provided poor service.
What happened
Miss R disputes payments of £319.96 and £100.46 made from her account using her card 
details on 17 July 2022. She says that she had to phone Clydesdale a number of times 
about this and didnt get a response including to her complaint.
Clydesdale said that the information showed that Miss R had authorised the payments. But it 
paid her £100 to reflect the time she had spent calling about this. And because a member of 
staff had been rude to her, and the conversation hadnt seemed to be confidential.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Clydesdale do anything further. He said that Miss R 
had confirmed she kept her card with her and hadnt disclosed her security details for mobile 
banking to anyone else. The payments were completed using two factor authentication 
which meant that access to the mobile app was required. And only Miss Rs genuine phone 
had that access at the time. There was no explanation of how someone else would have 
been able to confirm these payments without her authority. He said that Clydesdale had told 
Miss R the outcome of her dispute during a call on 21 July 2022 which hed listened to. And 
had compensated her for poor service and the rudeness of an employee. He noted what 
Miss R had said about her distress and health condition. He didnt think the delay in 
responding to the complaint had affected the outcome.
Miss R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She maintained that 
Clydesdale had taken too long to respond to her complaint. It hadnt taken her seriously. And 
the compensation for the calls she made wasnt good enough. Shed been a long-standing 
customer and was caused distress and this affected her health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security details. And if they werent authorised 
Miss R wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Miss R authorise the payments? 
Ive looked at the information Clydesdale has provided about the payments. These were 
made using Miss Rs card details. As our investigator has said an additional level of 
verification was required for each using the mobile app. And the information is that only one 
device was registered for mobile banking at this time. The payments were confirmed through 
the app which required the security information and so Im satisfied were authenticated.
Miss R has no explanation of how any unknown third party could have accessed her details 
and she says she kept these secure. I note that she was accessing her account using her 
device that day. And notably had made transfers into her account including one within a 
minute of a disputed payment. Clydesdale contacted the merchants involved who confirmed 
that the details they had about the payments matched those for Miss R. Notably the payment 
of £319.96 was for a hotel booking some two weeks later which would be unusual for a 
fraudster and risked detection. There is no information to support Miss Rs details were 
compromised and so I find it most likely she consented to and so authorised these 
payments.
I can see that she made a number of calls about this and had to wait and was cut off. Ive 
also listened to a recording of a call she made on 21 July 2022 when she was told the 
outcome of her dispute and that a complaint would be considered. This complaint was 
confirmed in a letter of 27 July 2022 and there were a series of further letters shes provided 
from Clydesdale about the delay. Notably she was told that she could refer the matter to this 
service before a final response decision.
I dont doubt that Miss R was distressed by what happened and has health issues. But as 
Ive found that Clydesdale fairly held her liable for the payments I cant reasonably hold it 
responsible for any distress relating to them. It had accepted it provided poor service and 
paid what I consider to be adequate compensation for this. Complaint handling isnt a 
separate regulated activity and as I say Miss R was told she could refer the matter to this 
service, and she did this. So, I wont be making any award for the delay in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate she will be disappointed by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money need do no more than it 
has already, and which was to pay Miss R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman