DRN-4158339
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about a USD payment made by Coutts & Company (Coutts).
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M had GBP and USD accounts with Coutts. On 3 October 2022, Mr M phoned 
to make a payment for USD50,000 to an account in the USA.
Coutts debited Mr M and Mrs Ms sterling account with the GBP equivalent.
Mr M and Mrs M complained. They said the payment shouldve been debited to the USD 
account  which had a balance of over USD143,000. They said that Coutts had a duty of 
care to them and it was obvious that the payment shouldve been from the USD account  
given the poor USD/GBP exchange rate at the time. And they said they thought the USD 
and GBP account was under the same umbrella.
As a result, Mr M and Mrs M said theyd lost money on the exchange rate. They calculated 
this to be £3,517.
Coutts said the call in which Mr M gave his instructions was clear. They said the call handler:
- Asked - was the payment to be sent from the USD account  and Mr M said that 
wasnt the case.
- Asked if the payment was to debit the sterling account  Mr M confirmed that was 
correct.
- Asked was the payment to go to Mr Ms USD with Coutts  he confirmed it was going 
to another bank in the USA.
- Reconfirmed the payment was to debit the sterling account and gave the account 
number. Mr M confirmed that was correct.
- Reconfirmed again that payment was to be made from the sterling account.
Coutts declined to refund any money.
Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it  and agreed 
with the points made by Coutts.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree. They said again that Coutts had a duty of care to them and 
shouldve made the payment from the USD account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is the call on 3 October 2022, and I listened to it. I detail the key 
parts:
Mr M: I want to transfer some USD to an account in the US.
Coutts: To confirm you want to make a payment from your USD account? Mr M: No, (its) to 
my USD account from my UK account.
Coutts: Thats your pounds sterling account? To your USD with us or to another bank? Mr 
M: No, (its) to a USD account with (bank in USA). 
Coutts: (So the payment is) from your joint account ending XXXX? Mr M: Yes.
Coutts: payment leaving your joint sterling account ending XXXX for USD 50,000 to (details 
the US bank account).
Coutts: Happy to process that for you? 
Coutts then confirmed the payment was sent.
Therefore, on the call:
- Mr M said the payment wasnt being made from their USD account with Coutts.
- Coutts twice confirmed the payment was from Mr M and Mrs Ms sterling account and 
quoted the sterling account number. 
So  Im satisfied that Coutts were clear with Mr M on the call  that the payment would be 
made from the GBP account.
Mr M has argued that Coutts should have been aware that the USD/GBP rate was poor and 
notice he had a large balance on the USD account  and then asked him if he should be 
making the payment from that account. But I dont think thats a reasonable thing to ask of 
Coutts call handler. The call handler was taking payment instructions  not giving financial 
advice or having a discussion about exchange rates. And here  Mr Ms instructions were 
clear  he asked for the payment to be made by debit to the GBP account, and the call 
handler confirmed it to him.
Mr M has also argued that all the money with Coutts was under the umbrella of the sterling 
account. By this, I think he means that the funds in USD and GBP were in some way 
aggregated. But Ive not seen that was the case, and as Ive described, the call handler was 
clear in saying the payment was to be debited from the GBP account  - so there wasnt any 
suggestion that anything other than that was to happen.
I can see Mr M and Mrs M feel strongly about their complaint and will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not asking Coutts to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman