DRN-2836788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with HDI Global Specialty SEs (HDI) handling of a claim made
under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to HDI also include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F noticed some cracking in their home in late 2018, specifically in the area
where their home was extended in 2011. The claim for subsidence was logged with HDI, but
this was declined. HDI said the foundations for the extension were too shallow, measuring
750mm. HDI went on to say that according to the industry standards at the time they should
have been at least 1m (ideally 2m, given the existing presence of nearby vegetation).
Unhappy with the decision to decline the claim, Mr and Mrs F complained. They provided a
certificate showing the building works had been signed off by the Local Authority, who were
satisfied the extension met the building regulations in place at the time. As HDI didnt change
their position, Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who said HDI should meet the cost of the claim
because it hadnt demonstrated the extension didnt meet building regulations in place at the
time. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2021. Heres what I said:
Both sides agree the extension has been impacted by subsidence. The disagreement 
comes from whether HDI is entitled to rely on the below exclusion to decline the claim:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building cause by the following:
6. Subsidence or heave of the site on which the building stands or landslip BUT
NOTloss or damage caused by foundations which did not meet building
regulations at the time of construction.
Ive considered the comments both sides have made in respect of the depth of foundations.
Its accepted both sides have provided differing information about the depth of the
foundations. The loss adjuster appointed by HDI found the extensions foundations were
750mm deep. This was 250mm shallower than the foundations of another extension built
before 2011 which had not suffered any subsidence damage. The loss adjuster said while
the foundations were 750mm deep, there was a further layer of cobbles made of concrete
which went down to 950mm deep. Mr and Mrs F provided photographic evidence to support
their belief the depth of the foundations was actually 950mm.
However, I dont think the difference in the depths are, in themselves, the key issue here as
they both make the finding that the extensions foundations are a minimum of 750mm. This
was what was required by the building regulations in place at the time where foundations
were built on clay soil, as the extension was when it was built in 2011.
I say this as the key issue for me to decide is whether HDI has acted fairly in declining the
claim. And in deciding this, Ive reviewed the reasons given by HDI for declining it.
In declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim, HDI said it was relying on guidelines applied by an
organisation involved in the building of new homes. HDIs engineers relied on these
guidelines when writing to Mr and Mrs F to decline the claim in respect of damage to the
extension. And it was these guidelines that were used to explain to Mr and Mrs F that the
foundations depth should have been deeper than 1m, given the presence of existing
vegetation when the extension was built.
HDI said it considers these guidelines do not just apply to new homes and the extension
should have complied with them. However, the extension wasnt built as a new home or by
that organisation. Im not persuaded those guidelines apply to this extension. And the policy
term HDI has relied on specifically mentions Building Regulations as the standard by which
to judge the depth of the foundations  not the guidelines used by another organisation. For
this reason, I dont think those guidelines are relevant to the claim for the extension and I
wont consider them further.
HDI went on to say the requirement of the Building Regulations are that foundations must
transmit the load of the building safely to the ground, they do not specify how this must be
done.
After the extension was completed it was inspected by the Local Authority. Ive considered
the certificate, from March 2014, that was provided to Mr and Mrs F. It said: It is hereby
certified that the building works described above have been inspected and as far as the
Authority has been able to ascertain, the requirements of the Building Regulations applicable
at the date of deposit have been met.
HDI argues that the certificate does not specifically mention the depth of foundation as part
of the work carried out, nor does it specifically mention the front extension being built. Mr
and Mrs F say this was beyond their control, and theyre unable to influence the content of
the certificate. They say the foundations were part of the works completed. They formed part
of the application and, therefore, formed part of the inspection carried out by the Local
Authority and were, importantly, signed off as having met the relevant building regulations.
The description of the works on the certificate matches the works detailed in the loss
adjusters letter dated 24 July 2019, whereby its accepted the extension was completed in
2011. Therefore, while the extension is not specifically mentioned in the certificate provided
by the Local Authority, Im persuaded it does cover the extension.
According to the certificate provided by Mr and Mrs F, the date of deposit (the application)
was given as September 2011. The building regulations in force at that time set out that for 
buildings on clay soil (as is the case here) a minimum foundation depth of 750mm was
required. As Ive said, the extension was signed off as having met the relevant building
regulations by Mr and Mrs Fs Local Authority. Therefore, it would seem to me that the
extension, having been considered and inspected by Mr and Mrs Fs Local Authority, met the
expected foundation depth required by the building regulations in place at the time.
Im not persuaded HDI is entitled to rely on the guidelines for the buildings of new homes
referred to above, for the reasons Ive given. And Id also note HDI has sought to rely on
these guidelines, not the relevant building regulations, when it wrote to Mr and Mrs F to
decline their claim.
However, the policy states any exclusions will be based on building regulations at the time of
construction. Im inclined to give more weight to the fact the extension was signed off by the
Local Authority than the arguments presented by HDI. It follows, Im more persuaded than
not that it met required building regulations at the time.
I dont consider HDI has acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim and I agree with ourinvestigator that it needs to take steps to put things right.
Our investigator said the insurer should pay cost of claim invoices Mr and Mrs F have paid
for the repair works to be carried out. Mr and Mrs F provided invoices totalling £7,936.60 to
stabilise their home and Im intending to require HDI to refund these, less any excess that Mr
and Mrs F would have been required to pay.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F might feel it is unfair for the cost of the excess to be
deducted, my intention here is to put them in the position they would have been in if their
claim had been accepted. If their claim had been accepted, Mr and Mrs F would have paid
an excess. If I was to disregard the excess, this would not be right. So I consider HDI is
entitled to make a deduction for the excess, in line with the policy terms.
However, Im also intending to direct HDI to pay interest on these invoices to compensate Mr
and Mrs F for the fact theyve been without the benefit of this money and should not have
been in this situation had the claim not been wrongly declined.
I acknowledge there were some delays in the handling of the claim, and HDI says these
were as a result of the number of similar claims being made at the time. Like our 
investigator, I think this claim broadly progressed as quickly as possible. However, given my
conclusion this claim was wrongly declined, its my view that there has been avoidable worry
and frustration experienced by Mr and Mrs F. They have had to find a large sum of money to
stabilise their home when they should have been able to rely on their insurance company to
meet the claim. I consider a payment of £250 would be appropriate to reflect this in the
circumstances
I asked both sides to provide any further comments they wished to make before I issued a 
final decision. 
Mr and Mrs F responded to say they accepted my findings. HDI responded to say it had 
nothing further to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, Im 
satisfied my provisional findings should remain, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I direct HDI Global Speciality SE 
to: 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs F the cost of the invoices they have paid to have the remedial 
works carried out at their home, less the cost of the excess 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum* from the date of each 
invoice to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr and Mrs F £250 compensation 
  * If HDI Global Speciality SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much its taken off. 
If requested, HDI should also provide Mr and Mrs F with a certificate showing the amount 
deducted, so they can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman