DRN-3431873
The complaint
Miss S complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) is reporting adverse information on her 
credit file about two loans which she says she has already fully repaid. 
What happened
Miss S had taken a number of loans from Morses, but the adverse information reported on 
her credit file relates to a loan of £1,400 granted on 28 August 2018 and £500 on 
14 October 2018. 
Miss S says she had two loans outstanding that she was making weekly repayments for. 
However, she went into hospital and when she came out she paid extra in order to make up 
for the payments that were missed. Miss S says when she made repayments the agent 
would sign her repayment book to confirm shed paid. 
Miss S then says the landlord of the flat that she was living in put it up for sale. Knowing she 
would have to move; Miss S says she asked the agent for an early settlement figure in order 
to repay both her outstanding loans. 
Miss S says the agent told her, in order to settle the loans, she needed to repay £1,258. 
Miss S says this was paid sometime at the end of 2018 or at the start of 2019. Miss S says 
due to the passage of time she cant remember the exact date the payment was made. 
In February 2019, Miss S moved address but didnt update Morses with her new information 
because as far as she was aware the loans were settled, and she didnt owe it any more 
money. 
However, Morses says that the loans werent settled and it was unable to collect any further 
payments after the last recorded payment in December 2018. As a result of not being able to 
collect further payments and with no contact from Miss S it went ahead and registered a 
default on her credit file for the loans in April 2019.
 
Following Miss Ss complaint, Morses wrote to her on 14 October 2021 with its final 
response letter (FRL). In it, Morses says it hasnt seen any evidence that the loans were 
repaid such as a repayment book or evidence of where the funds came from in order to 
make the repayment. It said without anything further from Miss S it was declining her 
complaint. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. Having looked at everything she didnt 
uphold the complaint. She explained:
She could see regular payments being made to Morses with a double payment made 
in November 2019 which the adjudicator believed may have been around the time 
Miss S was in hospital. 
Miss S says her paying in book was crossed out showing the loans were settled but 
she no longer has a copy of the book.
She could see Miss S raised a complaint with Morses in April 2019 but Morses 
response was returned as undelivered. 
Morses has no record of the balance being repaid. 
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, in response she said;
The loans have been repaid. 
Mss S left her flat in February 2019 and so that is why she no further letters were 
received by her from Morses after this date. 
Miss S says she didnt tell Morses shed moved because as far as she was aware, 
shed repaid her loans and so she had no reason to tell Morses of her new address. 
Her repayment book was thrown out along with other unwanted items when she 
cleared out her flat before she moved. 
Miss S doesnt always check her credit file which is why she only recently found out 
about the defaults were on there. 
Miss S says she was a good customer and always paid. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss S to explain why her comments hadnt changed her mind 
about the outcome of the outcome. 
Miss S disagreed saying she has repaid these loans  and had done with all previous loans. 
Miss S couldnt provide any further evidence as there was no point keeping a repayment 
book which she no longer needed. She also asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to be able to uphold Miss Ss complaint, I have to be satisfied that its more likely than 
not that Miss S repaid the loans as she says - which will need to be supported by some 
evidence.
If I conclude that an error has been made, then I can make findings to that effect and then 
recommend redress as to what Morses would need to do in order to put Miss S back into the 
position she wouldve been in had the error not been made. 
In this case, having reviewed all the information, Im not satisfied that Morses has made an 
error  which means Im not upholding the complaint. Ultimately, Ive not been provided with 
any substantive evidence of the payments to clear these loans being made to Morses and 
Morses having received them. Ive explained why Ive reached these conclusions below. 
Im not intending to provide a detailed commentary around the total number of loans that 
Miss S was granted. The only thing I will say on these matters is based on the statement of 
account provided by Morses, I can see that for these two loans Miss S was making regular 
payments of £75 every two weeks from October 2018.
Miss S made a payment of £150 on 16 November 2018 before returning to her regular 
amount of £75 every two weeks. What is clear from the statement of account is the last 
recorded payment was made on 14 December 2018.  Based, on these records it does seem 
Morses has no record of any further payments being made. But this does support what Miss S says in as much as up to this point her payments appear 
to have been up to date, and there wasnt, as far as I could see anything which suggested 
that Miss S regularly missed payments towards her loans. 
However, the end of 2018 is around the time Miss S says she asked her agent for the early 
settlement figure. Miss S says she was told she needed to pay Morses £1,258 in order to 
fully repay her loans. 
Miss S has been consistent throughout about the amount that she was due to repay. I made 
further enquires with Morses about this settlement figure. I wanted to know whether Morses 
could now work out what the settlement figure wouldve been in December 2018 in order to 
see whether the amount Miss S has quoted was around the amount that was owed. 
Unfortunately, Morses isnt able to tell the us what the early settlement figure was in 
December 2018. However, it does say, that for any early settlement figure it would expect to 
see a note within its systems that one was asked for and one was generated. 
But there is nothing within its systems to suggest a settlement figure was generated or asked 
for. Its system is silent on this point, which would suggest, solely on its processes that any 
request for a settlement figure wasnt actioned at this time. 
Unfortunately, a repayment book is no longer available. This wouldve been key information 
as it couldve shown what was recorded and ultimately is the best evidence to support what 
Miss S says about the payments being made. However, only Miss S wouldve had a copy of 
the book, and while Ive noted why Miss S discarded it, this does mean that I have to weigh 
up what shes said against the rest of the evidence that I have been provided with.
We asked Miss S to evidence withdrawing the funds from her bank account. But Miss S says 
that she doesnt have any such record. She has told us and Morses that the funds were in 
her flat, left over from other expenditure and other cash withdrawals. So, providing her bank 
statements wouldnt show anything because there was no large cash withdrawal. 
Ive thought about what Miss S has said. But, in these circumstances where she hasnt been 
able to provide her repayment book or anything to support her having been in possession of 
the funds to repay her loans, I cant reasonably say that Morses electronic records are 
inaccurate. 
In addition, Morses has provided its collection notes. Miss S says she understandably cant 
remember when the payment was made, but since the complaint has been with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service she has been consistent the payment was made at the end of 2018 or 
at the start of 2019. Ive inferred from what shes said that she had made the payment by the 
time she moved in February 2019. 
Morses has supplied notes from its system that were made at the start of January 2019. Ive 
placed significant weight on these notes as these were made at the time from when Miss S 
says the settlement amount was paid. I can see a note to show a payment was made on 
14 December 2018. Then, on 18 January 2019, the agent made the following note;
Not seen customer since last payment. Left messages by phone and carded address
On the same day, there is another note from agent  this is marked as visited
Problem: Customer had arrangement where she would leave payment in letterbox. 
Has not been left for a few weeks. Solution: Flat now for sale.The note goes on to say that the agent then called Miss S but the notes says that Miss S 
couldnt hear the agent  the call was then terminated. The notes say that when the agent 
called back no one answered. 
To me, these notes show that the agent was expecting payments to be made to the account 
and was taking steps to contact Miss S about them as they were outstanding.  There is no 
indication at this point that either a settlement figure had been requested or that the 
settlement had been paid, given the agent had attended Miss Ss property and had called 
her. If the loan had been settled before this date, there wouldnt have been any need for 
Morses to contact Miss S. 
The reference to the flat being for sale also corroborates what Miss S has said about her 
living arrangements at the time and when she moved out and her motivations for perhaps 
wanting to make the repayment in question. But, while that is consistent, there isnt enough 
evidence to show that a payment was made and received.  
It then looks like that a member of staff tried again on 22 January 2019 to contact Miss S but 
this was also unsuccessful. 
I dont know exactly what adverse information is reported on Miss Ss credit file because I 
havent been provided with a copy of the credit file and neither has Morses shown the 
Financial Ombudsman Service exactly what information it says it has reported. However, 
Morses says the loan accounts were defaulted in April 2019, which is around four months 
after the last recorded payment on the account. 
Clearly, by this stage, as far as Morses was aware the account was sufficiently in arrears by 
at least four months and its relationship with Miss S had broken down, as it couldnt reach 
her. 
Therefore, thinking about the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) and thinking about the principles (3 and 4) within this guidance, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Morses reported these loan accounts is to the credit reference agencies  
after all it has an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
Overall, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint because the evidence I have been provided 
doesnt show an early settlement figure was paid. As this is the case, I cant tell Morses to 
remove the adverse data from Miss Ss credit file, because she has taken out loans which 
she hasnt fully repaid. 
I know Miss S feels strongly about this case, but unfortunately, theres not enough here to 
persuade me that Morses records are inaccurate because Miss S has already repaid her 
loans. As this is the case, I cant uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
There is an outstanding balance, but Morses has reconfirmed that it isnt actively chasing for 
the balance to be repaid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman