DRN-2895568
The complaint
Mr W complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go), which 
he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr W with a fixed sum loan. The details are given below:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Monthly 
Instalments
1 18/02/2019 114.28 500 18 
Mr W says he feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
Loans 2 Go should have sought further information and, if it had, it would have seen Mr W 
was having problems managing his finances. He concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Mr W.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
when it lent to Mr W.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ws creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr W wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr W of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Ws ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make a fair lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did Loans 2 Go carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr W about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Mr Ws income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Mr Ws expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report, it 
says it also used Office of National Statistics data and also added a buffer of 10% for any 
unexpected spend.  
It says it reduced Mr Ws declared income from £1250 a month to £1114.28 after verifying 
this. It then increased what Mr W says his expenditure was of £690, to £875.53, based on 
checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any 
fluctuations in spend for Mr W. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ws 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan for the following reasons:
There was a discrepancy between what Mr W said about his expenditure and what it 
says it could see through its checks, something that I think Loans 2 Go would have 
wanted to find out more about. It would also have seen that Mr W had spent over his agreed limit on a current 
account within its credit search. Something that would have seemed at odds with its 
assessment of Mr Ws monthly disposable income. 
I can also see that with the addition of this loan repayment, Mr W would have been 
spending around 25% of his monthly income on credit, something that I think ought to 
have raised concerns with Loans 2 Go. 
This all leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take additional steps to verify what Mr 
Ws actual monthly expenditure was so it could fairly assess whether the loan repayments 
were sustainable for him. As I cant see that Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the 
checks it carried out before providing Mr W with loan 1 was reasonable and proportionate, 
bearing in mind Mr W would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks, I need to 
consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr W would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr W could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr W has provided for the months leading up to his applications for the loan. Having done 
so, its clear Mr W was gambling significant amounts of money at the time he asked for the 
loan. In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Mr W was unlikely to have been able 
to repay the loan without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. It is clear from 
what I have seen that Mr W was spending significant sums of money on gambling and was 
having problems managing his finances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr W would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing the loan to Mr W.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right for the reasons given above.
 
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr W was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ws credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman