DRN-4054454
The complaint
Miss M complains that the information ReAssure Life Limited provides to her on its online 
portal is inaccurate, and doesnt reflect changes she has made to her pension investments. 
And she complains that ReAssure has stopped sending her the weekly statement of her 
pension investments it had offered her.
What happened
Miss M holds pension savings with ReAssure. Those pension savings are invested in a wide 
range of different funds. A small proportion of those investments have been suspended by 
the regulator following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Miss M prefers to review the performance of her pension investments using ReAssures 
online portal. But she complains that she has been unable to do so since around 
December 2021. ReAssure has explained that, where problems arise with any of the 
underlying data on pension investments, it needs to suspend all online valuations for that 
customer. So it says that, initially, Miss Ms online valuation information was unavailable due 
to some inaccuracies in the charging information that was being supplied. And, more 
recently, valuations have been unavailable due to the suspended funds.
Miss M raised the problems with the lack of online valuations with ReAssure in 
September 2022. At that time ReAssure offered to send her a weekly statement of her 
pension investments. Miss M said that information was only provided for a few weeks before 
ceasing entirely. ReAssure has told us that it shouldnt have offered to send regular manual 
valuations to Miss M, but it would be able to provide them following ad-hoc requests from 
her.
After Miss M had referred her complaint to us, ReAssure offered Miss M £250 for the 
inconvenience she had been caused. But it told her that, at that time, it was unable to 
reinstate the online valuations that had previously been provided to her. Miss M didnt accept 
that offer so asked that we continue to assess her complaint.
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that 
ReAssure had made sufficient provision for Miss M to request valuation information on an 
ad-hoc basis. But she didnt think it would be reasonable to require ReAssure to reinstate the 
online service for Miss M before it had made any necessary system changes. The 
investigator did however think that ReAssure poor communication had caused some 
inconvenience to Miss M. And she didnt think the compensation that ReAssure had offered 
was sufficient. So she asked ReAssure to pay Miss M £350 to reflect the inconvenience it 
had caused.
ReAssure accepted the assessment and said it was willing to pay the increased 
compensation to resolve the complaint. But Miss M didnt agree. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss M and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As our investigator has explained to Miss M, it is generally reasonable for a business to 
decide the way in which it is prepared to offer its services to a consumer. Clearly a business 
should ensure that it provides everything that has been contractually specified when a 
product or service is sold. But within that framework there is often a degree of flexibility 
about what needs to be provided. So, whilst I can understand how frustrating a lack of online 
access might be for Miss M, as I will now go on to explain, it isnt something that I think 
ReAssure should be required to provide.
I think it would be right, at this stage, to say that I think the information ReAssure has 
provided to Miss M has been very poor. Much of her frustration appears to have arisen from 
the lack of information ReAssure has given her about why the online representation of her 
pension investments fails to match her understanding of her portfolio, and any changes she 
had requested. As I will go on to explain, I think the reasons for that discrepancy are 
acceptable  but the explanations given to Miss M fell significantly short of what she might 
reasonably expect.
ReAssure has explained that, when there are any problems identified with the valuation of 
some, or all, parts of a consumers pension investments, it flags the account as requiring 
manual calculations. And that means the valuation information shown on its online portal 
doesnt get automatically updated. It says that there were initially some discrepancies in the 
charges that were being applied to Miss Ms account. And that, more recently, some of her 
investments have been suspended by the regulator. So it says that is why the information 
Miss M can see on her online portal dates back to December 2021  it says that was the last 
time that it had no queries about any of the elements of Miss Ms pension valuations.
As I have explained earlier, it isnt for me to determine whether that is a reasonable 
approach to take. But I have seen that ReAssure has told Miss M that it is working on an 
update to its systems that would allow the online reporting to recommence despite some of 
her investments remaining suspended. So, in time, hopefully Miss M will be able to regain 
access to online information about her pension investments.
But, given its inability to provide online valuations, I would expect ReAssure to provide 
Miss M with alternative methods of receiving that information when she requires it. And I can 
see that ReAssure has told Miss M that she can contact its Customer Services team should 
she require valuation information before its systems changes are implemented. So I dont 
think I should reasonably conclude that ReAssure needs to do anything further in this regard.In September 2022, when Miss M questioned the lack of updated online valuations, 
ReAssure offered to send her manually calculated weekly valuations. And Miss M has said 
those were sent by ReAssure for a few weeks before stopping without explanation. 
ReAssure says that it shouldnt have offered to send the regular manual valuations to 
Miss M  it says that isnt something it is able to offer on an ongoing basis.
As before, I think it reasonable for ReAssure to decide whether it has sufficient capacity to 
offer the manual valuations each week. I can understand that, if large numbers of customers 
made similar requests, fulfilling that information provision would be impossible. So, with the 
intention of treating all customers equally, I dont think it unreasonable for ReAssure to 
decline to provide those valuations to Miss M.
But the problems that Miss M has brought to us have again arisen from a lack of effective 
communication. Miss M was told that she could receive weekly valuations  and indeed 
these were initially sent to her. But then they stopped without any explanation. Whilst I dont 
think ReAssure had to send them, I do think it should have been more proactive about 
informing Miss M about its decision to stop their production.
I have seen that Miss M is keen to move her pension investments to another provider. But 
that transfer is complicated by the suspended investments that she holds. And I understand 
that ReAssure might also levy a transfer charge for the early movement of Miss Ms pension 
savings. I dont think that either of those matters have been caused by the issues raised in 
this complaint. So, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to direct ReAssure to treat 
Miss Ms transfer request any differently to normal.
But although I think ReAssure has acted reasonably in the way the valuation information is 
provided to Miss M, as I have explained I think its communication has fallen short of what 
might be reasonably expected. There is no doubt that has caused some inconvenience and 
frustration to Miss M that might have been avoided. So I agree with our investigator that 
ReAssure should pay £350 compensation to Miss M for the inconvenience she has been 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ms complaint and direct ReAssure Life Limited 
to pay her £350 for the inconvenience she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman