DRN-3786744
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle). 
What happened
In November 2021, Miss K acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from 
Oodle. The car was registered in December 2012, which means it was about nine years old 
and had travelled 72,256 miles when it was supplied to Miss K. The cash price of the car 
was £6,495. Miss K paid a deposit of £1,500, so the total amount financed on this agreement 
was £4,995.
Miss K says that since acquiring the car she had a number of issues with it, and in an email 
to the dealer, dated 1 December 2021, Miss K detailed her concerns with the car which 
included, but were not limited to, the car pulling to the left, a low battery in the car key, no 
service history and that the sales representative didnt show the car in any detail.
Miss K arranged with a local mechanic to have the wheels aligned and another local garage 
to service car, as well as replace the cambelt, brakes pad and some other components. Miss 
K said she paid for this herself but received a reimbursement for the wheel alignment.
In March 2022 Miss Ks car broke down, so she raised a complaint to Oodle. She said this 
caused her considerable inconvenience and distress. Miss K explained that her car was 
attended by a roadside recovery engineer who confirmed an injector needed replacing. Miss 
K described the experience of the brake down which caused her considerable inconvenience 
and distress. Miss K said she reported the issue to the dealer and Oodle. Miss K also 
complained about the works she had to have carried out and that there was no service 
history provided.
Oodle arranged for an independent inspection of the car which took place on 23 March 
2022. The inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 80,768. It also confirmed faults 
were present relating to cylinder 2 injector circuit and body control model, but said the issues 
wouldnt have been present or developing when the car was supplied.
Miss K didnt think the inspection report took into account the works carried out on the car, or 
the mileage shed done. Miss K believed the issues were present when it was supplied to 
her.
On 25 March 2022 Oodle issued their final response to Miss Ks complaint. They didnt 
uphold the complaint but offered to pay half of the cost of the repairs, up to £356 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Oodle also advised theyd reimburse transportation costs and taxi fares 
incurred as the car was being repaired. Miss K confirmed shed received the payments from 
Oodle.  
Unhappy with their decision, Miss K brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Miss K said she wasnt happy with Oodles customer service, as she had to chase them 
several times and said they were rude, disrespectful and discriminate towards her over the 
phone. Miss K said she also complained about this but besides an offer of £100 goodwill 
which she refused, didnt hear anything further about it from Oodle.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ks complaint should not be upheld. Our 
investigator felt the issue with the car was likely to be caused by in service wear and tear, 
and as noted on the independent inspection report, didnt think the problem with the injector 
was present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss K responded to our investigator to say that the glow plug light had illuminated soon 
after being supplied the car, which she believes demonstrates there was a fault with the 
engine early on. Our investigator said there was no evidence provided from the local 
mechanic, and would have expected them to have commented on, or addressed the issue of 
the glow plug at the time. As our investigators opinion remained unchanged, Miss K asked 
for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Oodle supplied Miss K with a used car that was around nine years 
old and had travelled 72,256 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower 
mileage; and that there may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. There would also be 
a higher risk of parts requiring replacement sooner than if the car was younger or with lower 
mileage.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the cars engine. 
This is apparent from the independent inspection report, and the roadside recovery report which both confirms an issue with the injector. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive 
considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Oodle provided us with copies of invoices, which show that Miss K had a water pump and 
cambelt replaced on the car, along with some other components like the fuel and air filter, 
brake pad and brake discs. I acknowledge these were replaced within about a month of Miss 
K being supplied the car. However, in consideration of the cars age and mileage and the 
parts that were replaced being susceptible to wear and tear, I dont think its unreasonable 
that they were replaced at that point. In addition, Ive not seen any evidence, for example in 
the form of a diagnostic or inspection report, which shows the parts were replaced because 
of an inherent fault. 
In consideration of the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that the works carried out by 
the local mechanic or garage, as noted on the invoices, were as a result of components that 
were inherently faulty when the car was supplied to Miss K. 
The independent inspection report identified the engine misfiring and a diagnostic code 
relating to cylinder 2 injection circuit. However, the report concluded that it did not consider 
the faults to be present or developing at the point of inception. An invoice dated 26 March 
2022 confirms the injector was replaced, and the mileage recorded on the invoice is 80,742. 
So, Miss K had travelled around 8,500 miles at that point.
In consideration of the findings on the inspection report, and the mileage that was travelled 
since the car was supplied to Miss K, Im satisfied that the failed injector doesnt render the 
car as unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The inspection report also noted that the coil light was illuminated, and I recognise this is 
likely to be related to the glow plug. However, Ive not seen any evidence that this was 
present when the car was supplied. I recognise Miss K says she reported it to the dealer, but 
Ive not seen any evidence of this. I also think its likely an illuminated coil light would be 
noted by the local mechanic or garage, or that theyd comment on its presence or symptoms, 
for example in the form of an engine misfire. So, from the evidence provided Im not 
persuaded the issue with the glow plug was present of developing when the car was 
supplied to Miss K.
Miss K has raised concerns about the way Oodle have handled the complaint, for example, 
with how she was spoken to during a phone call with them. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that 
Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im 
unable to look into the specifics of this.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about Oodle Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman