DRN-2918603
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) recalled his Bounce Back Loan (BBL), 
cancelled the loan agreement and closed his account immediately.
What happened
Mr M applied for a BBL on 14 May 2020. He initially sought £15,000, which he says 
represents half of the maximum £30,000 he could borrow, against his turnover of £120,000.
On 11 November 2020, Mr M successfully applied for a further £15,000 by way of a top up 
loan. On 21 November, Starling blocked Mr Ms account while it carried out an investigation. 
Mr M complained and was told there was a technical glitch with Starlings system.
However, it later told Mr M that it had investigated the application because it had found he 
had initially declared his turnover as £75,000, meaning he was only entitled to a maximum 
loan of £18,750 under the BBL scheme rules and that he shouldnt have been allowed to 
apply for more than £3,750 for the top up loan.
Because Starlings system was set up to prevent BBL applications going through above the 
maximum 25% of turnover, it investigated how Mr M had been able to apply for a greater 
amount. It said it ran extensive testing on its online system but couldnt find a way to enter a 
higher loan value than the allowed 25% of turnover. 
It said the only way a higher loan value could be entered was if the online application form 
had been deliberately circumvented. And that doing so was relatively easy for someone who 
was tech savvy. As a result of its findings, Starling recalled the loan (both the original BBL 
and the top up), requested repayment and closed Mr Ms account without notice.
Starling issued its final response to Mr Ms complaint on 27 November 2020. Mr M remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she found discrepancies between 
what Mr M had told our service, and the evidence provided by Starling. And that she thought 
Starling had acted reasonably in reaching the conclusion it did.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he didnt know where the tax return Starling had relied on came 
from, that he hadnt seen it before and that Starling hadnt asked him to produce such 
documentation as part of the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in this matter is not to establish exactly what happened: I simply have to determine 
whether or not Starling acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr Ms BBL. That means 
that I wont make a determination as to whether or not I think Mr M cheated Starlings 
system, and where I do give determinations as to what happened, I will do so based on the 
balance of probabilities: i.e. what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Starling says the guidance from the British Business Bank (BBB) states that a top up loan 
must not exceed 25% of the turnover declared in a customers original application. It says Mr 
M declared his turnover as £75,000 at the initial application stage and has provided a 
screenshot demonstrating as much, along with a copy of a tax return it says Mr M provided. 
That is why it carried out its investigation  given Mr Ms initial application declared a 
turnover of £75,000, the top up system should only have allowed him to apply for a further 
£3,750, taking his total BBL to £18,750, being 25% of £75,000. It says it tested all 
possibilities when the issue was identified, and worked on the assumption there was a 
technical glitch.
Starling says it then tested the form extensively but couldnt find a technical glitch. It said 
none of its other customers (who numbered in the thousands) had been able to apply for a 
higher amount, whether intentionally or otherwise. After its investigation, it could only 
conclude that Mr M must have deliberately circumvented its application form. I.e. that he had 
intentionally falsified his application.
It also said that, when a top up loan is applied for, both the initial loan and the top up loan 
are to be treated as one loan, according to the BBB guidance. It says it chose not to explore 
the matter further or consider other options because there was no evidence it was a glitch or 
a widespread issue. And that the only explanation it could consider was that Mr M had 
deliberately cheated its system. It says it has since updated its system to prevent this from 
happening again.
Mr M says he declared his turnover as £120,000 when he submitted his initial application. 
And hes sent our service a copy of his tax return that lists business income of £122,547. Its 
also worth noting that the tax return Starling sent our service lists Mr Ms unique transaction 
reference number and his National Insurance number but doesnt include the HMRC IR 
mark.
Mr M says he doesnt have the knowledge to circumvent Starlings online system, and has 
pointed out that it would be unusual for a fraudster to retain fraudulently obtained funds in 
the account, and only apply for a relatively small amount of money.
He says Starling has prevented him from applying for a BBL elsewhere, that Starling could 
have simply defaulted the top up loan, not the original loan too, and that Starling took funds 
belonging to him when it recalled the BBL.
Ive looked at all of the evidence both parties have provided me, and Ive thought about what 
theyve both said. Having done so, Im satisfied Starling acted reasonably when it recalled 
Mr Ms BBL and closed his account.
While I understand Mr M says he declared his turnover to be £120,000 for the first 
application and that he didnt send in a tax return in support of his initial application, the 
evidence doesnt support that. It's possible that theres another explanation as to how 
Starling got hold of what Mr M says is an incorrect tax return, and that the screenshot is 
wrong. But the return contained Mr Ms National Insurance Number and an HMRC 
reference, and Ive seen no persuasive evidence to show where else the return could have 
come from.
And that, combined with the screenshot Starling has submitted of the original application, is 
what leads me to conclude that its more likely than not that Mr M declared his turnover to be £75,000 for the first application. With that being the case, Mr M was only entitled to apply for 
BBL funds in the total sum of £18,750, not the £30,000 he did apply for. 
Which leaves the question of how Mr M was able to obtain a higher top up. As I said at the 
start of this decision, Im not seeking to determine the answer to that question, I am simply 
assessing whether Starling acted reasonably in recalling the BBL.
Having looked at the evidence in that regard, Im satisfied that Starling acted fairly and 
reasonably when it decided to recall the BBL and close Mr Ms account. Again, its possible 
that theres another explanation as to how Mr M was able to apply for a greater top up loan. 
For example, there could have been a glitch or an error that Starling couldnt replicate. 
However, Im satisfied Starling undertook a full investigation and weighed the likely 
explanations carefully. It looked at the initial declaration of turnover as £75,000 (which was 
entered on its systems and supported by a tax return it says it received from Mr M), and 
couldnt explain why the system allowed a higher figure to be entered for the top up 
application, given it was designed not to allow a higher amount, and given none of its other 
customers were able to enter a higher amount.
In those circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Starling to reach the conclusion 
that it did. Again, Im not saying whether or not I think Mr M did, deliberately or otherwise, 
enter the wrong turnover and apply for a sum higher than he was entitled to. Im just saying 
that Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Starling was entitled to reach that 
conclusion in light of the evidence it had seen. And that it acted reasonably in doing so.
And given that it was persuaded, after a lengthy investigation and looking at evidence, that 
Mr M had acted fraudulently, it was reasonable to recall the loan and close Mr Ms account 
immediately.
I also accept it was right to recall the entire loan, not just the top up. Thats because it had 
concluded Mr M had acted fraudulently, but also because the BBB guidance says a top up 
loan is to be considered as part of the original loan, and not a separate loan of itself.
Mr M has also argued that Starling should remove him name from the BBL database so that 
he can apply for another BBL elsewhere. But Im afraid I cant reasonably tell Starling to do 
so. The database Mr M refers to is a record of who has received a BBL, and does not 
distinguish between that situation and the case where a BBL has been issued, then 
withdrawn. So Mr Ms record correctly shows he has received a BBL, even if he no longer 
has access to the funds.
Finally, I also accept Starling acted fairly in withholding the balance of Mr Ms account. The 
total balance of Mr Ms account at the date of the withdrawal was less than the debt he owed 
Starling. And while other payments had credited Mr Ms account, he had spent more than 
the sum of those payments. So Im satisfied in the circumstances of this particular case that 
Starling recalled the BBL funds in a manner it was entitled to.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, and that he feels strongly about his 
complaint. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant reasonably uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman