DRN-1789441
The complaint
G, a company, complains that a car it leased via Lex Autolease wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 G entered into a three-year lease for a new car with Lex Autolease. But in the 
following month G returned the car to the dealership as the passenger door seal was coming 
loose. The seal was replaced, and the car returned to G.
In September 2018 G experienced an issue with the windscreen strips coming loose and it 
took the car back to the dealership for these to be replaced.
In November 2019 G called out roadside assistance as the car was making noises from its 
front off-side wheel. G then took the car to the dealership where the front off-side wheel 
bearing was found to need replacing. 
The car was returned to G, but it complained that the brakes were excessively squeaky 
when applied. The dealership investigated the car but was unable to replicate the fault. 
However, in December 2019 G complained that the car was still making noises and it felt it 
was unsafe to use. The car was booked in for further investigation in January 2020.
G complained to Lex Autolease about the quality of the car and the number of times it had to 
be returned to the dealership for repairs. G said it wanted to now reject the car. Lex 
Autolease agreed that as a new car it wouldnt be expected to have required the number of 
garage visits it had but said that two of the issues, the door seal and the windscreen had 
both been minor cosmetic issues only. It said in light of the number of visits that 
compensation of £300 would be fair. However, Lex Autolease didnt agree with G that 
rejection was proportionate and fair as it said the faults had all been rectified.
G was unhappy at the offer made by Lex Autolease and complained to this service. G said 
the car had also required the front off-side wheel bearing hub being replaced in January 
2020 due to the noise it was making. G said it would be fair either for it now to reject the car 
or to receive a greater amount of compensation due to the amount of time it had had to 
spend dealing with the faulty car.
During this services investigation Lex Autolease increased its offer of compensation to £400 
as it agreed the car had required further repair for a different issue in regard to the noise 
coming from the wheel bearing. It said that the cars faults were now all rectified.
Our investigator said that she thought the amount of compensation offered by Lex Autolease 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The faults had been now been repaired and G 
had been kept mobile throughout with a courtesy car.
Our investigator said that a new car would not be expected to have had this number of 
issues and so she didnt think it had been of satisfactory quality when supplied, however, 
repairs had taken place and the faults resolved. Our investigator said she thought repair was 
a fairer outcome than rejection of the car.
Our investigator also said that she had noted that G had been able to drive 7,500 miles in 
the six months it had the car, so it had been able to use it. Lex Autolease had also provided 
a courtesy car whenever the car had been at the dealership for repairs or investigation. So, 
she didnt think it would be fair for G to be reimbursed any of the monthly payments under 
the agreement.
Our investigator agreed that G would have suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
by having to deal with the faulty car. She said that looking at the impact, she thought the 
£400 offered as compensation was fair.
G says that the compensation isnt sufficient in light of the amount of time it had to spend 
dealing with the cars faults. It also says there is now a fault with the cars Sat Nav system.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but I 
am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire agreement entered into by G is a regulated consumer credit agreement this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Lex Autolease is also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was brand new and so would be expected to be fault free. It isnt disputed 
that the car has suffered from problems that needed repair and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Nor is it disputed that dealing with a faulty car will 
have resulted in G suffering distress and inconvenience as a result. The issue I need 
to resolve is what is a fair and reasonable resolution for Gs complaint.
G says it should either be able to reject the car or, if not, receive a free months rental 
in addition to the compensation already offered. Lex Autolease says that rejection 
would be unfair as the car is now repaired and although it has required a number of 
issues to be fixed two of these were only cosmetic.
If a car is of unsatisfactory quality at the time its supplied that wont necessarily mean 
the consumer has the right to reject it. Here, although the car has had four repairs I 
think its fair to note that two of them were for simple cosmetic issues only which 
wouldnt have affected the usage of the car. However, I accept that the two issues with the wheel bearings were more serious and did affect Gs use of it. Though looking at 
the mileage Im satisfied that G has had reasonable use of the car. I am also aware 
that G was kept mobile throughout as when the car was unavailable because it was at 
the dealership being repaired a courtsey car was provided.
I think its fair that G pays for the usage it has had of the car and so Im not asking Lex 
Autolease to reimburse any of the monthly payments under the agreement.
I also dont think it would be proportionate for G to now reject the car. The faults were 
repaired and although G says there is now a new issue with the Sat Nav. However, 
before I can look into any other faults with the car G will need to raise them first with 
Lex Autolease so that it can investigate. From the evidence I have, I think its 
reasonable to say the car has been repaired since January 2020.
Lex Autolease revised its offer of compensation to G to £400 and looking at the impact 
dealing with the faulty car would have had I think this amount is fair and reasonable. 
The first two faults would have been irritating and frustrating and I can understand that 
G was concerned about the safety of the car when the brakes were being noisy. Ive 
seen that the car was repaired each time under the warranty and so at no cost to G, 
but I accept having to take the car to and from the dealership to be fixed would have 
caused it inconvenience. 
Looking at the evidence Im partially upholding Gs complaint but as I think £400 
compensation is fair Im not going to ask Lex Autolease to do more.
Putting things right
Im asking Lex Autolease to pay a total compensation amount of £400 to G.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im asking Lex Autolease Ltd to pay G a total compensation 
payment of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 02 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman