DRN-3284196
The complaint
Mr C complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt tell him the terms of his account 
changed in relation to the amount of money he could pay without incurring a charge.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr C wanted to pay £170,000 but he was unhappy when Santander said hed 
be charged a fee of £25 for this to be made by CHAPS. Alternatively, Santander said Mr C 
would be able to make one payment of £100,000 by faster payment and the remainder after 
24 hours had passed without incurring any fees.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said the fee was waived previously and the advisor agreed 
to ask his Private Banker to contact him. In responding to our service, Santander says the 
Private Banker confirmed he spoke to Mr C in November 2021 and asked him to let him 
know once the payment had been made and hed arrange to refund the fee. Santander said 
this hadnt been done by Mr C up to that point.
Mr C complained to Santander but it didnt uphold his complaint as it didnt agree any error 
had been made. It explained the limits are in place for all its customers as a security 
measure to protect both them and the bank. Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
The investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint be upheld. He didnt agree Santander 
had made an error. He thought the limits are for all customers, Santander correctly told Mr C 
what the payment limits were when he called and gave alternative options to make payment. 
Mr C thinks Santander shouldve made him aware there was a £100,000 limit in place to pay 
money without charge. And says he'd made payments of more than £100,000 in the past 
without incurring a fee. He feels its unfair for him to have to read through terms and 
conditions every time he wants to use a banking service in case of a change in them. This 
didnt change the investigators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont find that Santander made a mistake in this 
matter. The key terms of Mr Cs bank account, which have been in place since before Mr C 
transferred to a private current account in January 2019, include the following term:
If we send money as a faster payment using the Faster Payments Scheme, that 
payment will be subject to the scheme limits. Information on the Faster Payment 
Scheme transaction limits are available on the UK Payments Administration website 
www.ukpayments.org.uk. However, in some circumstances we may apply lower 
transactional limits and you will be informed of these when you give us your Payment 
Instruction...
Once the link to the UK Payments Administration website is followed, the faster payment 
limits for various banks are given. The specified limit for Santander is £100,000 for phone 
transactions. 
Mr C wanted to make a payment of £170,000 in October 2021. As this was £70,000 over the 
£100,000 fee free daily faster payment limit, Santander correctly intended to charge Mr C a 
fee if he went ahead with the payment. This is because it was going to be made by CHAPS 
and the fee specified in the terms of his account for a CHAPS payment is £25. I think its 
also useful to add that many banks charge customers a fee to make payments such as this.
I appreciate Mr C says Santander failed to make him aware of the limit to pay money without 
charge given that hed done this before without incurring a fee. But I consider the existence 
of a faster payment limit had been clearly set out in the terms and conditions before Mr C 
transferred to that account type, in 2019, along with a way of checking what the limit was. I 
havent seen any amendments to this term in the time Mr C has held his private current 
account. So, I dont uphold his complaint about this. Nor do I consider I can fairly hold 
Santander responsible for the fact Mr C wasnt aware of the key terms of his account which 
wouldve been available to him upon transferring his account type in January 2019 to a 
private current account. 
Taking everything into account, I dont find Santander shouldve done more to bring this to 
Mr Cs attention before he wanted to make the payment. I appreciate he says he hasnt paid 
a fee previously for faster payments over £100,000 and his private banker has previously 
refunded fees but Im considering whether what Santander told Mr C it was going to do here 
was within the terms of the account as well as being fair and reasonable. I consider it was.
Santander has already told Mr C that if he wants to withdraw the money from his account, he 
can make a fee free faster payment with a limit of £100,000 per payment in a 24-hour period. 
I leave it with Mr C to decide whether to take this step when planning future payments or 
incur the fee for making the payment in one by CHAPS for a fee, currently £25. 
Overall, I dont find that Santander made a mistake, so I dont require it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
14 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman