DRN-3116658
The complaint
Mr M complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly cancelled his home insurance policy 
when he told it about his planned building work. 
QIC was the underwriter for Mr Ms policy. Its responsible for his complaint. So Ive only 
referred to QIC in my decision. 
What happened
Mr M had a home insurance policy with QIC. The policy started on 5 November 2020 and 
was expected to provide cover until 4 November 2011.
Mr M was going to have some building work done at his property. He planned to have his 
garage knocked down and a bigger garage built with an office above it. The estimated cost 
for the work was £60,000. So on 15 April 2021 he told QIC. It sent him a questionnaire which 
he quickly completed and returned. One piece of information was unavailable to Mr M at the 
time, but he was able to provide that information on 20 April 2021. 
On 24 April 2021 Mr M was told his home insurance policy would be cancelled. His building 
work was due to start shortly after this. Mr M then had to get new insurance cover in a very 
short timescale. The cover cost considerably more than the cover hed had with QIC.
So Mr M complained to QIC. He was unhappy that his policy had been cancelled just as the 
building work was about to begin. He didnt think the insurance documents hed been 
provided with gave any clue that his policy could be cancelled just because QIC didnt 
provide cover when building work like his was taking place. He didnt think the policy terms 
made this clear. 
QIC said that its building technical team contacted Mr M on 26 April 2021. It said its agent 
tried to explain that although QIC covers some building work projects, Mr Ms building work 
fell outside of the underwriting criteria. The agent couldnt tell him the exact reasons for the 
decline. Mr M wanted to know why his policy had been cancelled. He felt that the policy 
documentation didnt state that a policy could be cancelled due to building work.
QIC said that its complaints team contacted Mr M on 27 April 2021. They told him that his 
policy had been cancelled for three reasons:
The Insurer doesnt cover double storey extensions/building work
The Insurer doesnt cover building work that includes any demolition work
The Insurer doesnt cover any building work projects that cost more than £50,000.
They also told Mr M that the policy requires notification of building work at least 30 days 
before it starts.
In its 6 May 2021 final response letter, QIC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It explained why 
his policy had been cancelled. It said it had confirmed that the cancellation wouldnt need to 
be declared to new insurers. And said that once the policy had been cancelled, Mr M would 
receive a pro rata refund. It also said that once the building work had been completed, it 
would look to provide home insurance for Mr M again.  
Unhappy with QICs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld. He felt that the terms and conditions made it clear about 
notifying the insurer and what the outcome could be. And he felt that the pro rata refund that 
QIC had issued was fair under the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said that while he understood that QIC had to have underwriting 
criteria, he couldnt accept that the terms and conditions of his policy didnt indicate that a 
policy could be cancelled just because of building work. He said he couldve understood if 
QIC had excluded certain cover, or increased his premium, whilst the building work was 
going on. But he didnt accept that cancelling the policy was fair.
Our investigator issued an updated view on Mr Ms complaint following his comments. He 
said he felt that the terms were clear that a policy could be cancelled. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said that our investigator hadnt looked at the cancellation section of 
the terms. He said hed done none of the things listed under that section. So felt that there 
was nothing to suggest that QIC could cancel his insurance for building work. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The issue here is that Mr M thinks QIC failed to clearly state that his policy could be 
cancelled due to building work. He feels that QIC should have continued to provide cover for 
him, even if itd needed to charge him an additional premium. 
As our investigator noted, this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the 
businesses we cover. So we don't have the power to tell them to amend their terms. And our 
role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their behaviour. Instead, my role here is to 
decide if QIC has fairly applied the terms of Mr Ms policy. And to consider if it has treated 
him fairly. 
Mr Ms policy was clear that he needed to let his insurer know if anything about his cover 
would change. Im satisfied the policy wording was clear on this point, as Mr M did contact 
QIC to tell them he was about to start building work. Under General Conditions, it states:
Here are some examples of changes that you must tell us about:
7. If you are having any building work done.
You must tell us before the start of any building work, conversions, renovations, demolitions 
and extensions at your property.
You must tell us about the work at least 30 days before it starts.
It also states:When you tell us about a change we will let you know if it will affect your insurance. For 
example, we may change the terms of your insurance, you may have to pay more for your 
insurance, or we may cancel your insurance in line with the Cancellation section below.
The Cancellation section states:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time if there is a valid reason for doing so (for 
example, if you havent given us the correct information, or if you have been using 
threatening behaviour or language towards our staff or suppliers) 
Mr M said that hed done none of the things listed under the cancellation section. So felt that 
there was nothing to suggest that QIC might cancel his insurance.
I understand Mr Ms point here  he had done none of the things listed as examples of when 
a policy might be cancelled. But I dont agree that the wording in the cancellation section 
excludes other valid reasons for cancelling a policy. The wording is clear that the points 
listed are only examples. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to assume that the list was 
intended to be complete. So I need to consider if QIC cancelled Mr Ms policy for a valid 
reason. 
QIC explained to Mr M that itd cancelled his policy because his planned building work failed 
three of its underwriting criteria. It listed the criteria thatd been failed. I consider that they are 
all reasonable criteria as I can see that they all affect the risk being taken on. Mr M hasnt 
disputed that his building work breaches the criteria listed. From what Ive seen, the work did 
breach all three of these points. So Im satisfied that QIC did have valid reasons for 
cancelling Mr Ms policy when it did. It wouldnt have offered any other customer insurance 
under the same circumstances.
Mr M said that once he told QIC about his planned building work he expected to either be 
charged an additional fee for the extra cover he needed while the work was in progress, or to 
have a temporary amendment placed on his policy restricting the level of cover provided. 
But QICs underwriting criteria didnt allow it to take either of these actions. I can understand 
why this would be frustrating to Mr M. Ill now look at the actions QIC took after it cancelled 
Mr Ms policy in order to determine whether it treated him fairly. 
From the evidence Ive seen, once QIC had determined that it couldnt provide cover while 
the building work was being carried out, it told Mr M his policy would need to be cancelled 
from the start of the works on 26 April 2021. This is in line with its underwriting criteria. So it 
wouldve treated any other customer in this way. It confirmed that the cancellation wouldnt 
need to be declared to new insurers. It advised Mr M who he should contact to get help in 
finding a new policy. And said that once the policy had been cancelled, Mr M would receive 
a pro rata refund. Mr M had received full cover for the period up to this point, so I consider a 
pro rata refund to be fair under the circumstances. Effectively Mr M paid for the cover he 
received.
I acknowledge that it wasnt ideal timing for Mr M, as his building work was about to start. I 
can see it must have been stressful for him to find alternative cover at such short notice. But 
I cant hold QIC responsible for that. It was a condition of Mr Ms policy that he told QIC 
about his planned building work at least 30 days before it started. QIC said this is to allow 
the customer plenty of time to find alternative cover if needed.  Mr M didnt meet this 
condition. And unfortunately this led to him having a much shorter period of time to find 
alternative cover.
Overall, Im satisfied that the actions QIC took after itd decided to cancel Mr Ms policy were 
fair and reasonable. From what Ive seen, QIC treated Mr M fairly. So I dont require them to 
take any further action.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman