DRN-4184468
The complaint
Mr M complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave him a line of credit he 
couldnt afford to repay and this was demonstrated by the fact he needed a number of 
repaymnet holidays. 
What happened
Mr M was approved for a running credit facility on 22 February 2022 with a £820 credit limit  
which didnt change while Mr M held the facility. Mr M has had some problems repaying the 
facility and from April 2023 he is making repayments through a repayment plan.  
Mr M was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr M was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter issued in December 2022, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Mr M before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment, Mr M was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. And she thought the checks Drafty carried out 
before granting this facility were likely proportionate.
Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility and having reviewed the way Mr M 
borrowed and repaid the facility and the other information that was provided she also didnt 
think Drafty had done anything wrong either. 
Finally, she could see a number of payment holidays had been approved for Mr M. And she 
didnt think Drafty was wrong to approve the payment holidays in April, September, October 
or November 2022. 
But she thought, Drafty ought to have done more in December 2022 before it approved the 
payment holiday given the number of recent payment holidays that had been granted. But 
she didnt recommend Drafty do anything for Mr M because after the December 2022 
payment holiday he returned to normal contractual repayments until he went onto a 
repayment plan  so she couldnt conclude Mr M was in a materially different position.  
Drafty didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr M didnt agree, and Ive read everything he has said and in summary:
Mr Ms outgoings to other credit companies was greater than Drafty found out from 
its credit search and
Mr M said these commitments came to around £720 per month and so the facility 
shouldnt have been provided to him. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ms
Drafty facility.
As explained, Mr M was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that means the 
checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Mr M would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable
period. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ms repayment record for any sign that he
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I dont think Drafty needed to have 
made further enquires with Mr M before it approved the facility. It was reasonable for it to 
have relied on the information Mr M provided along with the credit check results. Ive 
explained why below. 
As explained, Mr M wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. Mr M was given a facility where there 
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period. What constitutes a reasonable period is laid out in the
regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period will always be
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Mr M was granted a facility with Drafty with a £820 limit. In the credit agreement, a
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Mr M. This 
situation assumed that Mr M did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr M repaid what he owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Mr M done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,111.82 meaning twelve monthly
repayments of around £92.65.So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr M could make monthly repayments of around £93 at an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ms application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. Mr M declared he worked full time 
and received an income of £1,640.17 per month and he also declared monthly outgoings of 
£700. This expenditure was broken down as £375 for mortgage / rent, £125 for utilities, £25 
food and £175 for outstanding credit commitments. 
This information showed Drafty that Mr M had around £940 of disposable income each 
month in which to service and repay the facility.
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. 
The results showed that Mr M had 10 active accounts and credit commitments of at least 
£540 per month. While this is more than what Mr M declared as part of his application, even 
if you use the amount Drafty was told about, along with the other expenditure Mr M had 
declared, the facility wouldve still looked affordable. 
According to the results of the credit checks, none of Mr Ms active accounts were in 
delinquency and he hadnt had any defaults recorded on his credit file within the last year. 
So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have concluded, from the credit check 
results that Mr M wasnt experiencing any financial difficulties. 
I appreciate that Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements as well as a copy of his 
credit file, but at this point in the relationship, considering the cost per month to Mr M and 
what else Drafty knew, I think it wouldve been disproportionate for it to have carried out 
further checks, such as reviewing his bank statements. 
Overall, I think Drafty carried out proportionate checks which showed it the facility was going 
to be affordable for Mr M. I am therefore not upholding his complaint about Draftys decision 
to provide him with a facility. 
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the
end of its obligations to Mr M. When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says 
should be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, which could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ms repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.Having reviewed the transaction data, which includes the relationship between when Mr M 
made his drawdowns and his repayments, there isnt anything which ought to have given 
Drafty cause for concern. 
Between February 2022 and the last drawdown in August 2022, Mr M drew down five times. 
And, apart from the payment holidays he was making at least the minimum payment each 
month  and sometimes more such as in March 2022. There also wasnt anything within his 
repayments that wouldve indicated to Drafty that he was having or likely having financial 
difficulties. 
In my view, Drafty hasnt made an error in the way it monitored Mr Ms facility. 
Other considerations 
Ive also considered that Mr M requested a number of payment plans from Drafty  five in 
total. All were requested through the online chat function and each time Mr M had told Drafty 
that he had an unexpected bill to pay. 
Like the adjudicator, I think the first four  the ones approved by Drafty in April, September, 
October and November 2022 were reasonable, given what Mr M had told Drafty and how the 
account had been managed each time after the payment holidays had ended. 
It is possible, that come the final repayment plan in December 2022 Drafty needed to have 
done more, after all this was the fourth request in four months, and Mr M needed it for the 
same reasons as the previous holidays. Which perhaps indicated that Mr M may have been 
having wider financial difficulties. Drafty ought to have really done more at this point to make 
sure that offering yet another repayment plan was a fair course of action. It didnt do this. 
However, considering that shortly after the end of this payment holiday Mr M brought the 
account up to date, before going into a repayment plan, I cant fairly say the action Drafty 
took in December 2022 was unreasonable or has left Mr M in a materially different position. 
Overall, I wont be asking Drafty to take any further action.  
An outstanding balance remains due, and I would remind Drafty of its obligation to treat 
Mr M fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman