DRN-1972343
The complaint
Mr C and Mr W are unhappy with what happened when they were switching their Nationwide 
Building Society mortgage to a new product at the end of 2019.
They say the information they were given over the phone conflicted with what the paperwork 
said. Theyve also said that had they been able to wait longer then they would have got a 
lower interest rate as Nationwide released a lower interest rate version of the product they 
were applying for.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons:
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to order Nationwide to change how it 
deals with mortgage product changes, or to change the wording on its product change 
offers.
Mr C was given the correct information in the phone call that came before the offer, and 
it is clear from the call that he understood the correct situation in that the product was 
only guaranteed once the application was submitted. Mr C either needed to pass that 
information onto Mr W (as he was acting for both parties in the phone call), or if felt he 
wasnt able to explain it to Mr W then he should have asked the adviser to explain it 
again to Mr W.
Nationwide didnt release a lower interest rate until 13 March 2020, so even if Mr C and 
Mr W had waited until 15 December 2019 to decide whether or not to proceed then it 
wouldnt have made any difference as the rate was the same on 15 December as it was 
when they selected it on 31 October. Mr C says someone at Nationwide told him there 
was a lower rate in December, but weve got copies of all the rate changes and I can 
confirm there wasnt.
Mr C and Mr W have complained there were delays when they wanted to withdraw one 
rate change request and replace it with another when rates dropped. But as Mr C said in 
the call of 31 October, waiting had been financially advantageous to them as rates kept 
dropping. We wont award compensation for something that led to a person being in a 
better financial position so Ive not considered this point any further.
Mr C and Mr W opted to start their new rate on 1 December. They couldnt have started 
it any sooner than that as the rate was only released on 30 October, and Nationwide 
has a cut-off date of around 25th of the month for processing rate changes for the 
following month, with anything after the 25th not taking effect until the month after that. 
Mr C and Mr W say they were told it could be backdated. Thats not Nationwides normal 
process and as Nationwide did nothing wrong here I cant order it to work outside of its 
normal process.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman