DRN-4365973
The complaint
Ms M complains that Rock Insurance Services Limited [Rock] cancelled her travel 
insurance policy while she was on holiday and failed to return the premium she paid.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Ms M took out a travel insurance policy underwritten by Rock at the same time as 
she purchased a holiday. She completed the application process and went through 
health screening for a pre-existing condition she had experienced. 
The policy was accepted, Ms M paid the premium and Rock issued documentation to 
Ms M. Shortly after she arrived on holiday, she received notification from Rock that 
her policy had been cancelled as she was over the maximum age for which Rock 
would offer travel insurance. 
She complained to Rock and then raised a complaint with this service. Our 
Investigator asked Rock to provide evidence to explain its side of the story but 
despite a number of reminders, it failed to provide anything. Eventually, the 
Investigator issued his findings based on the information he had available. 
He upheld the complaint and told Rock to refund the policy premium Ms M had paid 
together with 8% interest, pay Ms M £300 for the distress it had caused and remove 
any reference to the cancellation of the policy on any insurance database. 
Ms M accepted the findings but Rock didnt respond, so the complaint has come to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This Service asked Rock for evidence to support its side of the story on 24 July 2023, 
9 August 2023, 17 August 2023, 21 August 2023 and 22 August 2023 but it failed to 
respond. It also hasnt responded to our Investigators findings on the complaint. 
Ms M has provided some policy documentation and correspondence with Rock but 
this is incomplete. However, its clear the key documentation such as the medical 
screening acceptance and complaint confirmation have been sent by Rock.
Additionally, our Investigator was able to obtain a copy of the insurance policy 
documentation for policies sold by Ms Ms holiday company, which confirms the 
policy was arranged by an authorised representative of Rock. Its possible Rock may 
have been acting as an agent of the insurer, but given the total evidence I have 
available and in the absence of anything from Rock to the contrary, Im satisfied Rock 
is responsible for this complaint relating to its sale of the policy. Ill be proceeding 
with my decision on that basis.
Given the number of times weve asked Rock for information, Im satisfied that its 
had ample opportunity to provide its evidence and comments on the outcome but has 
chosen not to. In the absence of anything from Rock, I have little choice but to reach 
my decision based on what information I do have.
Following medical screening in March 2023, Rock confirmed acceptance of cover 
and issued policy documentation to Ms M. On 21 April 2023, the day before she was 
due to travel, Ms M was emailed to say her policy had been cancelled as Rock didnt 
provide cover for travellers over the age of 70. 
Its clear from the documentation on file that Ms M provided her date of birth to Rock 
when she took out the policy and from this its clear shes over the age of 70. Indeed, 
the medical screening acceptance in March 2023 clearly quotes Ms Ms date of birth 
so Im satisfied Rock ought to have been aware she was over its maximum age for 
insurance cover from the outset and it should have informed her accordingly at the 
time. 
Ms M says she only read the cancellation email once she arrived at her holiday 
destination and given her concerns about her previous serious health issues, I can 
understand why suddenly finding she had no insurance cover was so distressing for 
her and why it ruined the holiday as shes explained. 
If Rock had let Ms M know from the outset she was too old for the insurance cover, 
this would have given her plenty of time to make alternative arrangements. But 
because it didnt, its caused Ms M distress and inconvenience and I have decided it 
should pay Ms M £300 to reflect this.
Ms M says Rock has never refunded her premium following the policy cancellation. 
So, in addition, Rock should refund the premium Ms M paid together with interest at 
8% simple per annum on this amount from the date she paid the premium to the date 
it makes the refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Rock Insurance Services Limited 
to:
Pay Ms M £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Refund the premium she paid together with interest at 8% simple per annum* on this 
amount from the date she paid the premium to the date it makes the refund.
Remove any reference to the policy cancellation from insurance databases.
Rock Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Ms M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
* If Rock Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman