DRN-2086660
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mr B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The policy 
started in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
I think its likely HSBC made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional, and that he agreed to 
take it.
I think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Bs particular 
circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable 
one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
Its likely Mr B was eligible for the policy, so would have been able to put in a claim.
As Mr B was self-employed, he wouldnt have had any of the protection that 
employee sick pay would give; so he could have run into trouble quite quickly if he 
was off work sick for a while, or if his business failed and he was unemployed. The 
PPI could have helped fill that gap. And hes told us he didnt have savings or other 
means to fall back on  and even if he had, the PPI would have meant that would 
have lasted longer. The PPI would have put Mr B in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr B to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Mr B has said that he wouldnt have been covered as he was self-employed; and also that a 
recent letter from HSBC suggested he was only covered if he became unemployed. I have 
checked this, and:
For this policy, being self-employed didnt stop you being covered. 
Mr B was covered for accident, sickness/disability and unemployment. (The letter 
from HSBC was just explaining what the criteria were for claiming unemployment 
benefit under the policy.) 
Sometimes PPI policies made it difficult for self-employed people to make an unemployment 
claim, putting unreasonable barriers in the way. But the terms of this policy werent like that. I 
think the criteria it required, to show that you were genuinely unemployed, were reasonable 
and not that difficult to comply with. 
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr B took the PPI, given the actual cost and length of benefits. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman