DRN-3726440
The complaint
Mrs K complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of her Home Warranty 
policy.
All references to British Gas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the policy say that British Gas will usually carry out a first 
service of the boiler within 42 days of the policy commencing.
The policy was taken out by Mrs K in December 2020. But the first service was not 
carried out until November 2021. During this visit, British Gas said it identified a fault 
with the boiler and it wasnt suitable for cover.
British Gas said scheduled visits were not fulfilled due to Covid 19 restrictions and 
the impact of industrial action. I can also see in some instances British Gas were not 
able to gain access to the property from Mrs Ks tenants.
However, Ive reviewed engineers notes from British Gas visit to the property in 
November 2021. The notes indicate there was an issue with water ingress but 
provides no detail of how this occurred, what issues its presented or how long it had 
been going on for.  
So, Im not persuaded this explains why the boiler was unsuitable for cover. And 
considering the length of time between policy inception and the first visit taking place, 
Im not persuaded based on what Ive seen, the issues have been shown to predate 
the inception of the policy.
Given Im satisfied British Gas hasnt demonstrated the boiler would have otherwise 
be unsuitable for cover, I think it would be reasonable for it now to take action to put 
right the issues with the boiler the engineer identified. As it would have done if cover 
had been in place.
British Gas have offered Mrs K £200 compensation in recognition of the service it 
provided. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances, as it fairly reflects the 
inconvenience shes been caused.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
British Gas have already refunded the premiums Mrs K has paid. So, to put things right it 
can ask for Mrs K to repay the premiums and proceed to provide repairs to the boiler. Or, if it 
decides to provide Mrs K with a cash settlement, it should do so at the cost to Mrs K on 
production of sufficient evidence, less the cost of the premiums already returned and, if 
applicable, any associated excess fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
To put things right, I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman