DRN-1427619
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of his household 
warranties insurance claim.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Mr C is unhappy D&G couldnt provide a copy of the instruction manual for a new 
washing machine on CD. I agree with Mr C this is a reasonable adjustment, but as D&G are 
not the manufacturers, and dont create the manual, I dont think they can be held 
responsible for this. I can see D&G recommended Mr C contact organisations that might be 
able to help, and they did suggest some manufacturers that had online manuals which could 
be magnified  so I think they did try to help.
 The terms and conditions of the policy say D&G will arrange to replace a product with 
one of a same or similar make and technical specification. Mr C found a manufacturer that 
could provide a manual on CD - and he requested one of their machines as his replacement. 
D&G said Mr C could do this, but if the price of the particular machine he chose was 
considerably higher than the price band of the replacements they were able to offer, so he 
would have to pay the difference. 
 Mr C was willing to do this but he wanted to pay this to D&G in instalments and is 
unhappy they couldnt do this. But D&G are not authorised to provide lending or credit 
services of this type to their customers  and they could be at risk of regulatory actions if 
they did without authorisation. I can also see D&G increased their cash offer to Mr C from 
£430, an £80 increase, for him to buy a replacement machine. So I think theyve acted fairly 
here. 
 Mr C disputes he called D&G to cancel his policy. D&G have provided me with 
recordings of a number of calls between their advisors and Mr C, which took place between 
July and October 2019. From these calls I can see Mr C did call to request to cancel his 
policy. Mr C has disputed it was him that made these calls  but Ive not seen or heard 
anything to persuade me this was the case. So Im satisfied he did request to cancel the 
policy.
D&G initially agreed to reinstate Mr Cs policy but upon further review said they were not 
willing to do so because of the Mr Cs conduct towards their employees. D&Gs terms and 
conditions say they have a right to cancel a customers policy where someone has used 
threatening or abusive behaviour or language towards their staff. Having reviewed a number 
of calls that took place between Mr C and D&G I can see Mr Cs conduct fell into these 
categories on several occasions. So I dont think D&G acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman