DRN-2521855
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt arrange proper repairs 
to his car following an incident. Mr C made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr C was involved in an incident with another vehicle and the front offside 
of his car was damaged.
Admiral arranged for Mr Cs car to be repaired at an approved repairer (AR). When Mr Cs 
car was returned to him, he found the engine was overheating and coolant was leaking. Mr 
C says his car was running fine before the incident.
Admiral arranged for an Independent Assessor (IA) to inspect Mr Cs car. They said the 
engine overheating and coolant leak wasnt accident related, but due to wear and tear. So 
Admiral didnt agree to cover the costs for these repairs. 
Mr C took his car to another garage and provided Admiral with an engineer report. This 
report said that coolant was leaking due to incident related damage. 
Admiral didnt change its decision. So Mr C asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator agreed that Admirals policy only provides cover for incident related 
damage. But from looking at all of the evidence, she thought that on balance it was possible 
that the coolant leak could be accident related damage. But she also considered on balance 
the age of Mr Cs car and that wear and tear may have been a contributing factor. 
So the investigator thought the fairest outcome was for Admiral to reimburse Mr C for 50% of 
the repair costs related to the engine coolant. 
Mr C accepted the investigators view. Admiral didnt agree. It said its provided a report from 
an IA which confirms the damage isnt incident related. So it says it dealt with the repairs 
correctly. 
As Admiral didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to decide is whether Admiral acted reasonably in deciding not to repair 
damage related to the leaking coolant as being incident related damage. 
Photos of Mr Cs car from the incident show it was damaged in the area where the coolant 
housing and radiator sits. Mr C says that before the accident, there were no issues with the 
coolant or with the engine overheating. 
MOT historical information shows that in 2012 a leak in the coolant was identified, but no 
related warnings in subsequent years. 
Mr Cs car is 19 years old. So there is a strong possibility that his car will have signs of 
natural deterioration. Its possible that there might have been an existing small leak in the 
coolant before the incident due to wear and tear. 
However, Mr Cs car had no coolant when it arrived at the AR and it was topped up as part 
of the repairs. However, a strong coolant leak was identified once Mr Cs car was returned to 
him, which caused the engine to overheat. 
While I understand that Admirals policy doesnt provide cover for non-incident related 
repairs, I dont think this is a clear cut case that the coolant leak damage couldnt be incident 
related. Both reports provided by the engineers are persuasive. But they say different things. 
The IA says there is no evidence of a coolant leak, either previous or current to the off side 
front. Mr Cs engineer identified a coolant leak from the offside front where the incident 
related damage occurred.
Theres an argument that there may have been existing wear and tear due to the age of the 
car, but I think its as possible that damage was caused  or made worse - by the incident 
due to the area of impact. I think its less likely that issues raised with the coolant in 2012  
not raised subsequently  are relevant here.
We look at what a policy says, but we also consider what is fair and reasonable overall and 
take a balanced view. In this case, I think the fairest outcome is for Admiral to meet half of 
the costs to for the coolant and radiator related issues identified after the incident. While its 
possible wear and tear may have contributed, photos of the incident related damage area 
and Mr Cs engineers report show its as possible the damage could have been caused by 
the impact. So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right as set out 
below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I understand Mr C has paid for the 
repairs in question. So I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to cover half of the 
costs to repair coolant and radiator related damage identified after the incident to Mr Cs car 
subject to proof of payment from Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman