DRN-3081464
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Moneybarn No.1 Limited dealt with his request for assistance after 
he fell into financial difficulties.
What happened
On 18 May 2017, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £17,540 over 60 months; with monthly repayments 
of £546.16. Mr H maintained payments on the account until October 2019, after which 
payments became erratic and direct debits were missed. Mr H fell into arrears and 
Moneybarn tried to contact him by phone, and in writing, to discuss the situation. But Mr H 
didnt contact Moneybarn to discuss matters until 2 September 2020, at which point he was 
over six months in arrears,
When he contacted them, Mr H explained to Moneybarn that hed been made redundant, but 
hadnt received any redundancy pay; that his wife was out of work; and that hed applied for 
Universal Credit, but it could take up to four months for the application to be approved. He 
also explained he was in arrears with priority bills  rent and utilities  and that his situation 
was also being affected by other family circumstances.
As a result of this conversation, Moneybarn offered Mr H a three-month payment deferral 
(otherwise known as a payment holiday), with no additional interest charged.
Mr H accepted the payment deferral, but subsequently complained that Moneybarn didnt 
explain that he had the option to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement in September 
2020, because hed already paid more than 50% owing under the agreement. Mr H said that, 
had he known about this option, he couldve and wouldve walked away from the agreement 
with nothing more to pay in September 2020. Mr H also complained that Moneybarn had 
threatened him, and laughed at him, when he spoke to them on the phone; and that they 
were chasing him every hour of the day for repayment of the arrears.
Moneybarn said that, when they discussed the situation with Mr H in September 2020, they 
thought a payment deferral was the most suitable option given the circumstances. They also 
said that Mr H had been given the option to VT the agreement in November 2020.
Mr H wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn had tried to contact Mr H, from December 2019, to 
discuss the situation and see what support they could offer him. But it wasnt until 
September 2020 that Mr H responded to any of these contacts, by which point he was 
substantially in arrears. The investigator thought that the emails Moneybarn had sent were 
clear in that support was available, so he thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. 
The investigator also said that, as Mr H was looking to keep the car in September 2020, then 
the offer of a payment deferral with no additional interest was reasonable. But, because Mr 
H was in arrears at the time, he wouldnt have been able to VT the agreement, and hand 
back the car with nothing further to pay  the arrears would still have been payable. He also 
said that, as Mr H didnt take the opportunity to VT the agreement in November 2020, when 
this option was provided to him in writing, he thought it was highly unlikely that Mr H 
wouldve taken this option in September 2020, had it been fully explained to him on the call.
The investigator also reviewed the correspondence that Moneybarn sent to Mr H, as well as 
listened to the calls between them. And he didnt think Moneybarn had acted inappropriately 
when discussing the arrears, or Mr Hs options. So, he didnt think Moneybarn needed to do 
anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he wouldve handed the car back in 
September 2020, if hed been given the option to do so. He also said that Moneybarn have 
deleted recordings and case notes, as well as falsely recording notes, to avoid their 
responsibilities. And he said that the Financial Ombudsman Service had acted with 
Moneybarn to drag out the investigation so as to leave him in more debt.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address the issues themselves, I think it would be useful to explain the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Were an independent complaints handling organisation 
acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont work for any regulated financial businesses, 
nor are we consumer champions. Were completely independent of all parties in a complaint, 
and investigations are carried out based on the facts and circumstances of that complaint. 
In his comments, Mr H raised concerns about the integrity of the investigation. And Ive seen 
that he was given the opportunity to follow this up and have it looked into. Because of this, 
my decision will concentrate on Mr Hs complaint about Moneybarn.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive listened to the call that took place on 2 September 2020. Mr H explained that hed lost 
his job due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, following a period of furlough. He also 
explained that he was in arrears with his rent and utility bills, and that a close family member 
was terminally ill. When he asked what his options were, Moneybarn explained that there 
was a high level of arrears, and that they had concerns over long-term affordability.
While Moneybarn told Mr H that they had exit options to get you out of the agreement, they 
also said their priority is keeping you in a vehicle. And they offered Mr H a payment deferral 
as breathing space, because his income had been affected by the pandemic; explaining that 
the missed payments would be added to the end of the agreement, not recorded as arrears.Moneybarn followed up this call with an email dated 3 September 2020, confirming that the 
payment deferral had been applied to Mr Hs account.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a 
payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is 
obviously not in the customers interest to do so. And the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) 7.3.4 states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
Moneybarn have explained that, given the circumstances with Mr Hs close family member 
being terminally ill, and that the car was the only vehicle within the household; they made the 
decision not to discuss exit options at this time, instead providing Mr H with reassurance 
and time to deal with the other issues he was dealing with. Given the circumstances, and 
that when exit options were mentioned Mr H didnt ask for more information, Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn dealt with this matter in line with the FCA guidance and treated Mr H with 
forbearance and due consideration.
On 16 November 2020, Moneybarn emailed Mr H to let him know that the payment deferral 
period had now ended. This email also confirmed that any payments(s) which were held 
during the payment holiday will be due at the end of your agreement  if you settle or end 
the agreement early (for example by Voluntary Termination) the payment holiday 
payments will need to be repaid at that stage. With regards to the arrears, Moneybarn also 
asked Mr H to get in touch to discuss the best way forward and how we can help you.
Mr H has said that, had he been given the opportunity in September 2020, he wouldve 
handed the car back with nothing more to pay. And this is what he wants to happen now. 
But, in September 2020, Mr H was already more than six months in arrears.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr H signed with Moneybarn on 13 May 2017. This 
confirmed that, to be eligible to VT, Mr H would need to pay at least half of the amount owing 
under the agreement - £16,361.72  plus any overdue instalments. So, if VT had been 
discussed in September 2020, Mr H would always have had to pay the arrears and wouldnt 
have been able to walk away from the agreement with nothing more to pay.
While the opportunity for VT wasnt fully explained to Mr H until 16 November 2020, hes 
been in a position where he couldve taken the VT option at any point after hed paid half of 
what he owed under the agreement. And Im satisfied that he wouldve been reasonably 
aware of this option, and the terms, since signing the agreement in May 2017. But Mr H 
chose to keep, and continue to use, the car. So, Im satisfied that he should pay for this 
usage, and he remains responsible for any payments that fell/fall due while the car was in 
his possession.
For these reasons, I dont think it would be fair for Mr H to be able to walk away from the 
agreement with nothing further to pay. And I wont be asking Moneybarn to allow him to do 
this. But I would expect Moneybarn to continue to treat his situation with due consideration, 
and to try and arrange a suitable repayment plan for the arrears.
Mr H has complained about Moneybarns attempts to recover the arrears. He was suffering 
financial difficulties and was unable to pay the arrears. As such, he would find any attempts 
to collect the arrears unwanted and unacceptable. However, as I have stated above, he was 
in arrears with the agreement ant Moneybarn were entitled to attempt to collect the arrears.Ive seen that Moneybarn attempted to contact Mr H on a number of occasions, and that not 
all of these contacts were successful. Moneybarn offered to discuss the missed payments 
and how we can help you get back on track. They also advised what actions they would 
take to legally recover the arrears if they remained unpaid. These are factual statements 
and, although Mr H may not have wished to be advised of this, it doesnt make them 
threatening. Ive not seen any evidence that Moneybarn laughed at Mr H when he explained 
his circumstances, and I dont think that Moneybarns attempts to contact Mr H were 
excessive in the circumstances  especially as Mr H ignored these contacts from December 
2019 to September 2020. So, Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted reasonably in pursuing the 
arrears. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman