DRN-4271703
The complaint
Mr S complained that hed had problems with Curve UK Limited when he disputed a 
payment made abroad.
What happened
On 25 November 2022, Mr S contacted Curve to dispute a transaction for $468.58 US, 
which had debited his account on 19 November. In the chat with Curve, Mr S said that he 
had blocked his card, which he still had in his possession; that he hadnt transacted with the 
merchant before; and he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone else. 
Curve replied saying the transaction had been authorised using chip and PIN, so the person 
using Mr Ss card knew his PIN. Mr S said no-one else would have known the PIN. He said 
hed initially thought it was the deposit for the hotel room, but his partner later said they 
hadnt used Mr Ss card for the room. Curve also asked why Mr S had later unblocked his 
card, and he said hed continued using the card for a few transactions, then blocked it again. 
Curve told Mr S the name of the merchant, which was a theme park. 
There were further chat messages over the next few weeks. On 15 December, Curve told Mr 
S that it couldnt treat the transaction as fraudulent because the method used for the 
transaction was chip and PIN. So the physical card had been present for the transaction. Mr 
S had asked what PIN had been used, but Curve replied that it couldnt view customers PIN 
numbers, to safeguard their accounts. But there were safeguards in place to monitor card 
transactions, which it couldnt disclose to Mr S for security reasons.
Mr S replied that hed discovered someone he was travelling with had made the transaction. 
That person had commented that theyd made a transaction which hadnt come out of their 
account yet. Mr S said it appeared this person had used Mr Ss card by mistake, but with 
their own PIN.
Curve replied that it could see that Mr Ss correct PIN had been used. Mr S said it had been 
the incorrect PIN and complained.
On 11 January, Curve issued its final response to Mr Ss complaint. This set out what had 
happened, and said the transaction would have been rejected by Curve if the incorrect PIN 
had been used. It sent him a screenshot of the transaction. Curve told Mr S that as hes said 
he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone, and the Curve card had been in his possession the 
whole time, Curve couldnt treat the transaction as fraudulent.
Curve also referred to a separate chargeback request which Mr S had made some months 
earlier, but that complaint doesnt form part of Mr Ss complaint to us. So this decision is only 
about the $468.58 US disputed transaction.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Curves final response and contacted this service. In his complaint 
form, he said it had caused a lot of arguments between family and friends while they tried to 
figure it out. Hed had to ask others if theyd used his card, which hadnt gone down well. 
Hed been left with a transaction on his credit card, which was the card underlying his Curve 
card, and as he was allowing the other person to pay it off monthly, he was having to pay 
interest. Mr S said he wanted to know why and how his card had been used without his PIN 
for such a large amount, and said Curves system showed the PIN was used when it hadnt 
been. Mr S said he wanted a gesture from Curve to compensate for the stress and anger it 
had caused. He said he doubted if Curve would reverse the transaction but it would be nice.
During discussions, Mr S later told the investigator that his friend had said he hadnt input 
any PIN. Hed started to, but the transaction had already been approved. He said that what 
he really wanted to know was how and why the card could be used in this way, for such a 
large amount, without an actual correct / physical PIN number. He said it looked as if the 
merchant was set up so it could take a swipe or a contactless payment, and surely he should 
have some protection for such a large amount.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He noted that Mr S originally said his friend 
took his card and verified the transaction using his own PIN, not Mr Ss PIN. But Mr S then 
told this service that his friend took Mr Ss card by mistake  but wasnt asked for a PIN at 
all, and instead swiped the card to authorise the disputed transaction. And Mr S had also 
sent a screenshot from the theme park saying the purchase of park tickets didnt need a PIN. 
But Curve had provided computer evidence proving that the disputed transaction had used 
Mr Ss PIN. And Curve had also told the investigator that any transaction over £100 would 
be declined if it hadnt been authorised by chip and PIN. Mr S had also told the investigator 
that his friend had taken the card from the safe they both accessed  which showed that Mr 
S had failed to keep the card adequately secure.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said hed been honest throughout. He said hed also told the 
investigator that he wasnt concerned about a refund, so hed have expected that to be 
included in the investigators view. He said the transaction hadnt been authorised with his 
knowledge and something had genuinely gone wrong between the merchant, card scheme, 
and Curve. He said that it appeared that it was standard practice in the country where hed 
been, for a PIN only to be required at a cash machine. He said he felt failed by Curve, and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key information in this complaint is the computer record of the disputed transaction, and 
Ive looked at this document carefully. The code for the relevant part of the transaction 
record consists of a multi-digit code of letters and numbers. Each letter or number provides a 
different sort of information. Two of these relate to how the authentication was carried out. 
And for the disputed transaction, these codes both show that the correct PIN was entered. 
So its not correct that the transaction went through without a PIN, or with an incorrect PIN.
I recognise that Mr S says that it was standard practice in the country where they were 
staying, for PINs not to be required. Hes also said that the merchant there said it didnt 
require a PIN. But this doesnt mean that PINs are never required on any card, because the 
card issuer (here, Curve) can require it. Thats what happened here.
Curve told this service that cards issued in that country tend to use either a magnetic stripe, 
or chip and signature, instead of a PIN  but that Curves cards have different requirements. 
Curve uses a contactless limit. Transactions for more than that, including the disputed 
transaction here, would be declined if they were attempted contactless. Curve said that the 
disputed transaction exceeded the limit for a single contactless payment, which was why the 
correct PIN was required. So I find that there wasnt an error by Curve. Mr Ss PIN was required in line with Curve policies, and the computer evidence shows it was entered 
correctly by whoever carried out the transaction.
Mr Ss version of events has varied over time, which isnt persuasive, but I recognise that 
might have been because he was asking around about which of his travelling companions 
used his card to carry out the transaction, and perhaps getting different responses. His most 
recent version is that a friend carried out the transaction but didnt enter a PIN, so thats what 
Ive considered.  But the computer evidence shows that his genuine card with its chip was 
used, and that the correct PIN was entered. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a 
four-digit PIN. So either Mr S had it recorded somewhere where his friend could access it; or 
hed told the friend; or the PIN was something  such as Mr Ss birthday  which was easily 
guessable by someone close to him.
 Mr S said that his friend is paying him back monthly, and he isnt concerned about a refund. 
For completeness, however, Ill explain that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the organisation is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and 
the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, the disputed transaction was 
authorised using Mr Ss genuine card and correct PIN.   
Ive considered Curves terms and conditions, to which Mr S would have signed up when he 
opened the account. The relevant section says:
When well be responsible. Well refund you any money youve lost as a result of:
-any unauthorised transaction which youve promptly reported (and within 13 months 
of the transaction), provided youve not acted fraudulently or carelessly 
Here, I accept that its more likely than not that Mr S didnt authorise the disputed transaction 
himself. Hes said that his friend used his card, having picked it up accidentally from the safe 
they both used. The fact that his friend was able to access Mr Ss card, and that the friend 
must have also known Mr Ss PIN, means that its reasonable to consider Mr S acted 
carelessly and breached this term by not keeping his card and PIN sufficiently details 
secure. So Curve wasnt responsible for the disputed transaction.
Finally, in his complaint form to this service, Mr S asked for a gesture to compensate him for 
the stress and anger this had caused him. Ive found that the transaction was correctly 
processed in line with Curves authentication requirements, and Mr S didnt keep his card 
and details secure in line with the terms and conditions. So I find that no compensation is 
applicable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman