DRN-2115641
The complaint
Mr B complains about problems he experienced with his Revolut Ltd account after a 
merchant claimed a payment twice.
What happened
Mr B has a pre paid debit card with Revolut and on 24 February 2020 he made a payment to 
a merchant. On 28 February 2020 the merchant tried to claim the payment again 
On 28 February 2020 Mr B has advised that a debit card payment he tried to make was 
declined and contacted Revolut via its online chat facility. Revolut advised that the merchant 
Mr B had previously paid had processed an offline payment. That meant the transaction 
wasnt processed on the day Mr B authorised the payment. 
Revolut advised that Mr Bs account balance would change after either seven of 15 days had 
passed, depending on what the payment was for, and that he would need to make a 
payment in the meantime. Revolut suggested Mr B contact the merchant. 
Mr B asked the first contact at Revolut to escalate his concerns at 19:30 and a manager 
joined the online chat at 19:51. Mr B says it took too long to escalate his concerns. 
The manager resolved this situation for Mr B and said they would ensure he didnt lose out 
due to the exchange rates used.  
Mr B complained a Revolut offered him a free Premium Plan upgrade, accepting that his 
online chat could have been handled better. Mr B asked Revolut to relook at his concerns 
and it has sent a number of emails to him in response. Revolut didnt agree that it had made 
any errors in terms of the way the payment was processed but felt the service Mr B received 
could have been better and offered him the cash equivalent of two months at the Premium 
Plan, totalling £13.98. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator to review. 
They agreed that the service Mr B received fell short at times but felt that overall, Revolut 
had dealt with matters reasonably and its offer of £13.98 reflected issues raised. Mr B asked 
to appeal and said that he shouldnt have been referred back to the merchant to query the 
payment, that he didnt authorise two payments and that he disagreed that Revolut had dealt 
with his complaint fairly. Mr Bs case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr B asked some questions and explained that he hadnt 
authorised two payments to the merchant in question on 24 February 2020. I appreciate that 
Mr B only made one payment on 24 February 2020. When a debit card payment is made the 
funds are initially reserved as a pending payment on the account to be debited. The 
merchant then normally claims the full payment on the same day, which means the reserved 
funds are debited from the customers account. 
In this case, the merchant didnt try to claim Mr Bs payment immediately and did so as an 
offline payment. The merchant doesnt appear to have continued processing the existing 
payment, instead a new transaction was put through. Whilst the way the merchant 
processed the payments did lead to a negative available balance, only one payment was 
ever claimed by the merchant. 
Mr B has asked how this occurred given that he only authorised one payment. The payment 
systems merchants and banks use are largely automated and its clear something did go 
wrong. It appears that the merchant processed the transaction twice. But my role is to look at 
Revoluts actions and make a decision about whether it made any errors when processing 
Mr Bs payments. I havent found any evidence to show that Revolut authorised payments it 
shouldnt have or that it made errors. 
Revolut suggested Mr B contact the merchant. Although that wasnt necessary, I think it was 
a reasonable request. Mr B completed the purchases and Im satisfied it wouldnt have been 
unreasonably difficult for him to query why the merchant had tried to take two payments. But 
Revolut was able to resolve the situation so Mr B didnt have to take the step of contacting 
the merchant. 
Mr Bs concerns about the payment and his available balance were dealt with on 
28 February 2020 over Revoluts online chat facility. Mr B has raised various concerns about 
how his queries were handled, including having to make two requests for his call to be 
escalated. Ive reviewed the chat log and I thought the service provided by Revolut was 
professional and courteous throughout. The first person Mr B spoke with explained what had 
happened, suggested Mr B contact the merchant and went on to check with other colleagues 
if there was anything further they could do to help. Mr Bs request for his query to be 
escalated to a manager was complied with once they were certain there was nothing further 
that could be done to assist. 
Mr B says it took too long for the manager to become involved. Mr B first requested a 
managers involvement at 19:30 and the first message he received from them was at 19:51. I 
can see that Mr B was frustrated, but Im not persuaded that the twenty minute delay 
impacted Mr B to the point where I can reasonably tell Revolut to increase the settlement. 
Overall, Mr Bs questions took around an hour to resolve. Mr B says thats too long, but 
Revolut had to look into the situation and consider options to resolve it. Revolut accepts 
Mr Bs argument that the first person he chatted to could have handled things better and has 
offered him £13.98 as a gesture of goodwill. I can see that Mr B was frustrated at the 
responses Revolut gave him, but I didnt find an unreasonable level of delays. I think 
Revoluts offer of £13.98 to resolve Mr Bs complaint is fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. Im 
satisfied the Revoluts offer of £13.98 is fair in all the circumstances. Should Mr B wish to 
accept Revoluts offer he can either contact our investigator for assistance or get in touch 
with Revolut directly. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Revolut Ltd has already made an 
offer that is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman