DRN-3926892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(LBG) offered when they claimed under their home insurance for lost jewellery.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr W throughout 
my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
The key issue here is that Mr W doesnt think LBG settled his claim fairly. He thinks LBG 
shouldve made a cash payment for the full insured value of the two rings which had been 
lost and were the subject of his claim. So, hes unhappy that LBG cash settled his claim for 
the diamond ring at a much lower value and provided vouchers for the plain band ring.
The simplest way to explain why Ive reached my decision is to set out what LBG shouldve 
done to settle Mr Ws claim fairly and in line with the policy, and compare that with what LBG 
actually did. 
LBGs responsibility under the policy was to put Mr W back in the position he was in before 
the claim  that is, having one diamond ring and one plain band ring, each being of the 
specification detailed in his valuation. 
LBG said it could make a new diamond ring to the same specification, and its supplier could 
replace the plain band. LBGs offer was in line with the terms of the policy, so Im satisfied 
that wouldve fairly settled the claim. Mr W would have two rings of the same specification as 
those which had been lost, so hed be back in the same position as before the claim. I 
wouldnt necessarily expect LBG to do any more than that.
Because Mr W wanted his own jeweller to make two new rings, he asked LBG for a cash 
settlement. LBG offered to replace the jewellery so, if Mr W wanted an alternative 
settlement, it would reflect LBGs discounted cost to replace rather than the retail cost 
available to consumers. This is set out in the policy terms and conditions.
LBG offered vouchers to the full retail value, or a cash settlement reflecting its discounted 
costs. But Mr W didnt think that was fair. He accepted the voucher settlement for the plain 
band, which was the full retail cost less the £200 policy excess. He also accepted the cash 
settlement for the diamond ring, but he complained about the settlement value.
I realise Mr W wouldnt be able to buy the same ring for the cash settlement amount, but I 
cant say that was because LBG did anything wrong. LBG offered to replace the rings, and 
its cash settlement offer was in line with the policy.
I understand Mr W wanted his jeweller to replace the rings because of the sentimental value. 
I can only sympathise with Mr Ws position, and I understand it will have been a distressing 
experience. But I cant hold LBG responsible for Mr Ws decision to reject its offer to replace 
the rings. I understand he may have had concerns about the quality, but without the 
opportunity to replace the ring, I cant assume LBG would have failed to match the 
specification. 
Ive gone on to look at the service shortfall for which LBG offered compensation of £50. 
LBGs supplier told Mr W its cost to replace the diamond ring was the same as the insured 
value. I appreciate that wouldve caused Mr W concern because the information was 
different to that given by LBG. However, I note that LBGs supplier made a mistake about the 
amount. I wouldnt expect LBG to offer the insured value as a cash settlement just because 
someone made a mistake when discussing the claim. And on consideration of the impact 
this mustve had on Mr W, I cant see anything to indicate it caused any significant 
inconvenience or any financial loss. Therefore, Im satisfied that £50 was fair and 
reasonable.
Overall, the evidence tells me that LBG offered to settle Mr Ws claim fairly and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. I cant see that LBG needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman