DRN-4438924
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the decision made by Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) following a claim 
made under his car insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr B took out a car insurance policy with Covea. The general policy conditions explained:
You must take all reasonable steps to:
 prevent loss of or damage to any vehicle insured by the policy;
The policy conditions for theft explained:
What we cant cover you for
8 Theft or attempted theft while nobody is in your car, unless all the doors, windows 
and other openings are closed and locked, the keys are removed, and the alarm is 
set (if you have an alarm)
In June 2019 Covea received notification of theft of Mr Bs car. The circumstances of the 
theft were reported by a named driver on Mr Bs policy. It was recorded that Mr Bs car had 
been stolen from a hotel car park. The named driver confirmed Mr B would be in touch to 
discuss his claim in more detail. 
Mr B later contacted Covea. Mr B said that he had parked his car in a hotel car park. While 
at the hotel there was an incident which resulted in Mr B being sectioned under the Mental 
Health Act. Mr B said he was being held due to domestic reasons. Mr B said he would have 
used the car key to lock his car. He couldnt confirm where his car keys were as he no longer 
had them. Mr B said his car had a tracker app which had given a location for where it was. 
Mr B said the police arranged for a helicopter to go out and attempt to locate his car, but he 
wasnt aware of the outcome of the search.
Covea contacted the police to obtain a copy of the police report. The police report didnt 
evidence any investigation of the theft in the way that Mr B had described. Covea 
interviewed the named drivers on the policy for more information about the circumstances of 
the theft. Following Coveas investigation, it was determined that Mr B was unable to provide 
key evidence, such as the car keys, invoice for the hotel Mr B was staying at, and the 
tracking information he had referred to at the start of the claim to evidence the location of his 
car at the time of the reported theft. 
Covea informed Mr B that with the evidence available, it wouldnt be paying out under Mr Bs 
policy, as there wasnt enough evidence to support that the policy terms for theft had been 
reasonably met. Mr B was asked to provide the additional evidence requested by Covea if 
he wanted them to further consider his claim. This included evidence of him reporting his car 
keys missing to the police. Mr B was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
 
The investigator found that Covea had acted reasonably in reaching their decision to decline 
Mr Bs claim on the basis that they didnt have what they needed to say that the claim terms 
had been met. Mr B asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Bs claim.    
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Covea need to do anything more in settlement of 
this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive considered the claim history, and the additional evidence requests to progress Mr Bs 
claim. In doing so I think the request for additional evidence to support the circumstances of 
the reported theft, including evidence of car keys, and tracking information for Mr Bs car, is 
reasonable, and in line with what wed expect for a claim of this type. 
Mr B provided a detailed testimony about the investigation completed by the police in 
searching for his car after it was reported stolen. But the police report provided to Covea 
didnt support this. Its not unusual for there to be inconclusive evidence to verify the exact 
circumstances of how a theft happened. Covea requested additional supporting evidence to 
investigate what had happened. 
When questioned about the keys for his car, Mr B has explained that these were likely stolen 
at the same time that his car was taken. Covea have asked for evidence of Mr B reporting 
theft of his car keys. But this hasnt been provided. At the start of the claim, Mr B referred to 
a tracking device on his car. But he hasnt been able to provide any details of this to support 
his testimony about the location of his car at the time of the reported theft. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs circumstances. Its evident Mr B was going through a difficult 
time, and it wouldnt be unusual to expect Mr Bs recollections to be limited, or confused. 
Keeping this in mind, Ive considered the actions taken by Covea to investigate Mr Bs claim. 
And Im satisfied that these actions have been fair, proportionate, and in line with the policy 
terms. And so the decision to decline Mr Bs claim is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr Bs disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr B 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask Covea to pay for the 
claim, given the evidence thats been provided, and uncertainty surrounding the claim details. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Coveas actions have been wrong, 
or unfair. So I wont be asking Covea to do anything in response to this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman