DRN-3867475
The complaint
Mr B has complained MBNA Limited wont refund him for transactions he didnt make using 
his credit card.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr B travelled through a couple of countries in Europe. He got back home 
and noticed an email from MBNA telling him hed exceeded the credit limit on his account.
He noticed about £13,000 worth of transactions had been made which he disputed. MBNA 
questioned Mr B about his card which he said he still had. MBNA didnt believe Mr B had 
been a victim of fraud so wouldnt refund him.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt that MBNAs 
evidence showed Mr B was only now saying hed lost his credit card. She also noted he was 
regularly checking his open banking app about the status of his MBNA account. She told 
Mr B she wasnt going to ask MBNA to do anything further.
Still unhappy, Mr B has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 9 November 2022. Mr B accepted this outcome. MBNA 
raised a number of further questions. Further evidence that Id considered in coming to my 
provisional decision was shared with MBNA. They remained dissatisfied with the outcome.
I now have all I need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Bs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Bs case.
To help me decide what happened, I looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as 
what MBNA and Mr B have told us. I also have taken into account the issues MBNA 
highlighted in their emails after the provisional decision was issued. I refer to those aspects 
where relevant below.
Mr B has disputed all transactions on his MBNA credit card made between 18 to 30 August 
2021 except the first six transactions made on 17 August. There were other transactions 
made on that date which were not processed, including to a specific retailer. I can see from 
Mr Bs current account statement that he subsequently made that payment himself with 
another card.
The key pieces of evidence from MBNA are two-fold:
Mr B told MBNA on more than one occasion that the credit card remained in his 
possession. This meant that many disputed transactions using the genuine card and 
PIN took place with the card being returned to him. MBNA couldnt identify any point 
of compromise.
MBNA were able to show that Mr B regularly accessed his open banking app 
throughout the time he was away to check his MBNA account. They believe this 
meant Mr B would have been able to see the increasing level of debt on his MBNA 
card, and knowing that he used such an app, indicated he paid attention to his cards 
and what was happening with them.
In subsequent correspondence with MBNA I note these points clearly concern them.
Theres no dispute Mr B made a few transactions with his MBNA credit card when he arrived 
somewhere he stayed for a while. He firstly accessed his PIN using his online banking 
service.
After these first six transactions, MBNA identified potential fraud and tried to contact Mr B 
unsuccessfully. As the PIN was successfully used, MBNA authorised the transaction. Mr B 
has confirmed this transaction was part of those he made using his card. I can see that he 
checked to ensure he could use his PIN.
Mr Bs credit card continued to be used in the same city Mr B was in but the use also 
continued beyond his stay there after he left on 20 August 2021. The nature of the spend 
from 18 August onwards also changed significantly. The level of expenditure rose.
MBNA dont believe theres a point of compromise. But I disagree. It seems to me  bearing 
where Mr B was at the time; a well-known area for pickpocketing  that there was a clear 
opportunity for his card to be pinched after someone observed him using his PIN. MBNAs 
own systems had identified potential fraudulent use. However as the card and PIN continued 
to be used  and Mr B hadnt responded to the alert MBNA sent him  these transactions 
continued to be authorised until the credit limit was exceeded and MBNA stopped further 
transactions.
All parties agree that Mr Bs MBNA credit card wasnt something he used that regularly. He 
had taken it abroad with him but wasnt expecting to use it that much. Ive seen from his 
bank account statement to cover this period; he was using his debit card. Hed withdrawn a 
considerable amount of cash which gave him money to spend. His bank account statement 
also shows Mr B spending money on accommodation.
This statement  along with Mr Bs evidence about his travels in August 2021  show Mr B 
was elsewhere when all the transactions on his credit card were being made from 20 August 
onwards.I have considered the possibility that Mr B allowed someone else to use his credit card whilst 
he was elsewhere. But I have to wonder why that would be the case. This would be a high-
risk strategy as Mr B would have known there was little or no chance of getting his money 
back. 
On the other hand the disputed use of his card does match patterns of fraudulent behaviour 
 using the card until no further use is possible. 
Mr B uses an open banking app to view his different banking relationships. Ive seen that he 
has more than five accounts (some joint) as well as other credit cards. I dont dispute 
MBNAs evidence that Mr B was opening his open banking app and seeing top-level 
information about the status of his MBNA credit card.
Like MBNA I do wonder why he didnt notice what was going on. But Mr B was on holiday 
spending time with family, he had no reason to suspect anything was wrong with his credit 
card. Hes already told us he didnt immediately pay any attention to emails from MBNA 
about his card use exceeding his credit limit until a good week afterwards. Im afraid its a 
fact that some peoples attention to life admin isnt quite up to the standard that some may 
hope. I think it would be harsh (as well as against the terms of the PSRs) to say that just 
because someone didnt notice what was happening with their credit card, they should be 
held liable for a substantial debt.
From what Ive seen I think its possible that he wouldnt have necessarily noticed that his 
MBNA card was missing. MBNA continues to be concerned that Mr B insisted he still had his 
card when he reported the fraud in September. However I accept Mr B was simply wrong.
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint and weighed up the available 
evidence. In doing so, Im satisfied Mr B didnt authorise the use of his MBNA credit card 
after the transactions on 17 August 2021.
Putting things right
MBNA will have to rework his credit card account to ensure this debt no longer exists 
including amending charges and interest payable, refund payments he made towards this 
debt except for money that paid off the non-disputed payments, and add 8% simple interest 
to that repayment if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct MBNA Limited to:
rework Mr Bs credit card account to ensure this debt no longer exists including 
amending charges and interest payable; 
refund payments Mr B made towards this debt except for money that paid off the 
payments Mr B did make on his credit card, and 
add 8% simple interest a year to that repayment, if appropriate, from the dates they 
were made until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sandra QuinnOmbudsman