DRN-3375882
The complaint
Ms C, Mr J and Mrs J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost, which 
they believe was as the result of a scam. 
What happened
Please note for ease, Ill refer to Mrs J throughout this decision as she has been the primary  
complainant.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in great 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mrs J was looking for furniture to fit their business premises and came across a furniture 
company that had some items she was interested in. Mrs J has said shed seen a number of 
endorsements from celebrities and the furniture company had a number of followers on 
social media.
Mrs J contacted the furniture company and discussed buying some furniture and wanted to 
place an order. She was told that as the furniture was bespoke, full payment was needed 
upfront. Mrs J has said she wasnt happy with being asked to pay the money upfront, so 
shes said she checked the company out thoroughly and carried out some further checks. 
This included checking Companies House, seeing positive reviews on consumer review 
websites and it appeared the company had physical premises where the furniture could be 
reviewed.
Having carried out the checks and satisfied with what she had seen, Mrs J went ahead and 
made the following payments to the furniture company;
2 April 2019 £8,242.50
16 May 2019 £8,242,50
But, Mrs J has said that the vast majority of the furniture was never received, and what was 
received was not of the quality they expected. Mrs J has said that she tried to contact the 
furniture company, but has said attempts she made culminated in threats from the furniture 
company.
Realising something was wrong, Mrs J contacted HSBC. HSBC issued its response in 
September 2020, not upholding Mrs Js complaint. It said it was unable to provide a 
reimbursement as the payment had been authorised by Mrs J and it considered this to be a 
dispute between Mrs J and the seller.
 
Mrs J then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint, in summary this was because he 
didnt think HSBC would have had any concerns about the payments Mrs J was making.
Alongside this our investigator didnt think HSBC were wrong to say this was a civil dispute. 
He said this because; it appeared the furniture company had provided a number of 
consumers with orders it had committed to do, it was registered on Companies House, and
appeared to have its own premises and factory, which our investigator considered indicated 
they were a legitimate business. He added it was unusual that a scammer wouldve gone to 
the lengths this company had to promote their enterprise, as this wouldve understandably 
been costly, and fraudsters will typically want to maximise the funds they got.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, she said research she had 
carried out indicated that there had been many other victims and that the directors of the 
company had owned numerous companies which had been dissolved. She added that other 
victims had received refunds from their banks for money they had lost, so she didnt see how 
this case was any different.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I know Mrs J has referred to other consumers, who have received refunds of money they 
paid to this furniture company. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints 
may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. 
Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at the individual circumstances of Mrs Js 
complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mrs J made formed part of a civil 
dispute. Mrs J strongly disagrees, she considers this is a scam. However, based on what I 
currently know, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold 
and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate business 
failing and not being able to honour its customers orders as a result of going into liquidation.
 
Its clear the agreement Mrs J entered into with the company did not go as planned and she 
has not received what she was expecting. And I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that the company set out with an intent to defraud her.
The company Mrs J paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in 
2018 and whose principle activity was the manufacturing of soft furnishings and the retail of 
furniture. And Im mindful that it appears the company had a large following, with many 
reviews indicating other customers had orders successfully completed.Im also not aware of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other 
authority, which leads me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. Based on what I 
currently know, while I dont dispute Mrs J has been treated badly by the company, Ive not 
seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for 
fraud. 
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that has fallen into liquidation and 
subsequently been unable to meet its obligations to its customers. So, on balance, taking 
into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Mrs J has 
been a victim of a scam or that the company she made her payments to were operating 
fraudulently. 
I can see that, even though our investigator wasnt persuaded this was a scam, he has still 
considered HSBCs responsibilities around what he would have expected from HSBC in 
terms of protecting its customers from the risk of financial harm  which is what I will also go 
on to do here. 
In this case, even if I were to consider this to be a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt 
and for the reasons explained I dont, I would need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mrs J, when she made the transfers and when she reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
In making the payments through her online banking, Im satisfied Mrs J authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow Mrs Js instructions. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers. I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions and it should 
intervene if a payment appears unusual or suspicious.
But even if HSBC had of intervened, in the circumstances of this case I cant reasonably say 
it would have made a difference and I think Mrs J would have continued to make the 
payments. I say that as if HSBC had intervened I would have expected it to ask Mrs J 
questions about the purpose of the payment. Such as but not limited to; what the payment 
was for, where did she find the company; had she carried out any research. Im persuaded 
its more likely than not Mrs J would have been able to answer any questions HSBC might 
reasonably have asked persuasively and I dont think there would have been enough going 
on to have caused HSBC any concerns that Mrs J may have been at risk of financial harm. It 
follows, that I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in allowing the payments to be 
made.
 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs J and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on her and Ms C and Mr J. I also recognise how invested Mrs J, along 
with Ms C and Mr J have been in this complaint. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I 
cant fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money that has been paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms C, Mr J and Mrs Js 
complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C, Mr J and 
Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Stephen WiseOmbudsman