DRN-4153864
The complaint
Mr M complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves gave him a loan
which he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr M is also unhappy with the amount of additional interest which has been added to the
balance of the loan.
What happened
Mr M was advanced one loan by Fund Ourselves on 7 August 2018 for £500. Mr M was due
to make two monthly repayments of £166.67 and one final payment of £166.66.
Mr M has had problems repaying this loan and Fund Ourselves was aware a third party
debt management company was dealing with Mr Ms debts (on his behalf) between
October 2018 and March 2019. Later, Mr M agreed a repayment plan with a third party
acting on behalf of Fund Ourselves and the loan was repaid in July 2022.
Following Mr Ms complaint Fund Ourselves wrote to him to explain why it wasnt going to
uphold it because it hadnt done anything wrong when it granted the loan as the checks it
carried out showed that Mr M would be able to afford the repayments.
It also said it hadnt acted incorrectly when Mr M contacted it about the debt. It advised Mr M
that the account had been passed to a third-party collection agency and Mr M was directed
to them in order to repay the loan (the loan was outstanding at this time).
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At
this point, Mr M let us know that he had made payments for the loan through the debt
company which acted on his behalf in 2018, which Mr M says hadnt been credited to the
balance. As a result, Mr M believed that Fund Ourselves had collected more than it was
entitled to  under the industry regulators cost cap for this type of product. Mr M said 
Fund Ourselves had collected more than the limit of £1,000.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt think Mr Ms complaint
should be upheld because in his view, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks
which showed it Mr M would be able to afford the loan. Our adjudicator did not address the
issue surrounding the cost-cap and whether Mr M had overpaid.
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. He said that the outstanding balance
had been settled in July 2022, and a copy of a letter from the third party acting on behalf of
Fund Ourselves confirmed this. Mr M reiterated that Fund Ourselves had collected more
than it was entitled to (100% of the amount borrowed) and said he had paid a total of
£1,005.79 when the maximum he ought to have been charged was £1,000.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and I dealt with Mr Ms concerns about the cost cap. 
Both parties were asked to respond to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but in 
any event no later than 19 May 2023.
Fund Ourselves didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision.
Mr M responded, Ive read in full what he said and Ive summarised his response below:
Mr M doesnt believe adequate checks were carried out before the loan was 
approved. Had Fund Ourselves reviewed his bank statements they wouldve shown 
poor money management. 
Fund Ourselves hasnt been transparent about the payments Mr M had made to it 
and had it provided the transactional records there wouldve been no confusing about 
when payments were received by it  Mr M says this is a compliance breach.  
Mr M says he has been treated unfairly, by Fund Ourselves failing to provide a 
summary of borrowing or any other documentation showing what has been paid 
towards the loan  Mr M says this is treating him unfairly. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and italics and forms part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors
include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. As there was only one loan the
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mr Ms complaint.
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
As part of his application, Mr M declared a monthly income of £1,850. Fund Ourselves says
it verified this income through a credit reference agency and it says the results it received
were positive  indicating the income Mr M had provided was likely to be accurate. Mr M
also declared monthly outgoings of £985 to cover several different items including, food,
other credit commitments and utilities.
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr M provided, he had around £865 per
month in disposable income to afford the largest repayment of £166.67. Therefore, it
wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe this loan to be affordable for Mr M.
Before the loan was approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with what appears to be the raw data that it received
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Fund Ourselves carried out a
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific
standard. Which means that Fund Ourselves was entitled to rely on the information it was
given by the credit reference agency.
The raw data is a difficult format to read, but it seems that it had Mr Ms correct details. It
was also aware of a number of credit searches. As there was no requirement to do a credit
search let alone one to a specific standard, I dont think the result that Ive seen wouldve
prompted Fund Ourselves to carry out further checks, such as verifying Mr Ms bank
statements or have led it to decline the loan application.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and Mr M was advanced only one loan for
a modest sum, I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information
Mr M provided about his income and expenditure which showed the loan was affordable.
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr M was having current financial difficulties
or anything to suggest the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him.
I do not uphold the complaint about the loan being approved.
Cost Cap
Mr M is quite correct in stating that since July 2015 there has been a regulation in place that
prevents companies  such as Fund Ourselves - collecting more than 100% of the amount
borrowed. What this would mean for Mr Ms case is that Fund Ourselves couldnt and
shouldnt collect more than 100% of the £500 which was advanced  this would mean a
maximum repayment amount of £1,000.
Later on, and after the case had been passed for a decision, Mr M said taking account of the
payments that he had made to his debt management company, he believed that in total, he
had paid Fund Ourselves £1,013.43. Which would be above the cost cap and therefore
Fund Ourselves wouldve collected too much from him.
Mr M says Fund Ourselves (and the third parties collecting the debt) failed to take account of
payments made to it while a third party was acting on his behalf between October 2018 and
March 2019.
As part of the investigation into this aspect of the complaint, we asked Fund Ourselves for a
statement of account showing all payments Mr M had made towards this loan.
In response, Fund Ourselves provided an email with a table contained within it whichshowed all payments Mr M had made to the third party who was collecting the debt from
January 2022 until the account was repaid in July 2022. Between these dates, Mr M paid 
through the repayment plan £981.41. Which is broken down to Mr M having made
payments of £74 each month between 6 January 2022 and 6 July 2022. Then Mr M made a
final payment of £463.41 on 29 July 2022.
So just considering the information Fund Ourselves had provided about payments Mr M had
made between January and July 2022, Fund Ourselves hadnt breached the cost cap.
But no information was given to us from Fund Ourselves about payments that Mr M may
have made prior to January 2022. Indeed, it said So were not too sure what lump sums Mr M [ full 
name removed] is referring to in 2018 as they certainly were made to Fund Ourselves but potentially 
other outstanding debt he had?
However, Mr M was asked to contact his debt management company to see if it had records
of payments being made to Fund Ourselves. This was asked for, because the statement
provided didnt show that Mr M had paid more than the cost cap. And I could see from the
bank statement provided by Mr M that he had made two payments to the debt management
company in 2018  so it was at least possible that the debt company had passed some
amount to Fund Ourselves.
As part of this request, an email Mr M received from Fund Ourselves was forwarded to us -
dated 15 June 2022. In this email, Fund Ourselves told Mr M that a payment of £9.51 had
been received on 6 November 2018 and then a further payment of £9.08 on
7 November 2018.
Mr M then let us know he had spoken to the debt management company and while the dates
the payments were made are different (it says one was made in October 2018) the total
amounts that had been paid to Fund Ourselves matched what Fund Ourselves had told Mr M in
June 2022 about the payments it had received in 2018.
Given this, Im satisfied that while Mr M was subject to a debt management plan in 2018 a
total of £18.59 was paid to Fund Ourselves. And then, between January and July 2022
Mr M paid a further amount of £981.41 to the third party acting on Fund Ourselves behalf.
In total, Mr M has, based on the evidence Ive been given paid £1,000 in total to Fund
Ourselves. Which is the maximum amount Fund Ourselves couldve collected under the cost
cap regulations. I therefore cant conclude that Mr M has repaid more than the cost cap and
so Fund Ourselves doesnt need to take any further action in relation to the amount it
collected.
Taking everything into account, I plan not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Finally, Mr M has indicated in his correspondences that he is unhappy with how the
repayment plan in 2022 was structured and with regards to the final payment he made. That,
as far as I can see wasnt subject to the complaint, he raised with Fund Ourselves. So, if he
is unhappy with this, hell need the third party and or Fund Ourselves the opportunity to
review his concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fund Ourselves didnt respond to the provisional decision and Mr M provided a succinct 
response as to why he was disappointed by the findings that had been reached. 
Having considered everything new that was provided, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached before, and Ive explained why below. I still think Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before the loan was advanced  
which showed it that Mr M would likely be able to afford the repayments he was committed 
to making. 
I appreciate what Mr M says - that had Fund Ourselves reviewed his bank statements it may 
well have discovered the loan wasnt affordable for him. But, at this early point in the 
relationship, thinking about the information Mr M declared to it and the information 
Fund Ourselves received, it wouldve been disproportionate for it to have considered Mr Ms 
bank statements. 
And, based on the evidence provided by Fund Ourselves and Mr M, Im satisfied, in this 
case, that Fund Ourselves hasnt collected more than 100% of the capital amount borrowed. 
Although I do accept, that this couldve been potentially worked out more quickly had 
Fund Ourselves provided a statement of account covering all the repayments that Mr M had 
made  which at times both Mr M and us had requested. This is a standard piece of 
information that is usually provided by all lenders as part of the complaint process albeit the 
format of such a document can vary. 
And both the request from Mr M and from the Financial Ombudsman is something that ought 
to have been actioned. It isnt clear why Fund Ourselves has been unable to produce a 
statement of account. But ultimately, I was able to piece together the information needed to 
come to a finding about the cost cap from the email Fund Ourselves had previously provided 
to Mr M as well as what it had provided to the Financial Ombudsman. 
I can also understand why Mr M doesnt feel he has been treated fairly by Fund Ourselves. 
Mr M wanted a statement of account or details of all the transactions he has made to it in 
one clear document, but that hasnt been made available to him. But given, this has been 
asked for by us  and hasnt been made available, the only conclusion I can draw from this 
is such a document doesnt exist or it cant be produced by Fund Ourselves.  
And whether or not there has been a compliance breach in the way Fund Ourselves has 
kept records isnt something the Financial Ombudsman can look at  ultimately, this is a 
regulatory matter and that is something the Financial Ombudsman is not able to come 
involved in. I say this because we have been set up to resolve disputes between financial 
business and consumers  we arent here to set regulations and or issue fines or punitive 
awards for business failing to adhere to the regulations. 
I accept Mr M will be disappointed by the decision but for the reasons Ive outlined above, I 
am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman