DRN-2985718
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr B took out an 18-month instalment loan from ELL on 15 October 2018 for £1,500. The 
monthly repayments were £138.22 and the total repayable was £2487.96.
Mr B says ELL didnt complete sufficient affordability checks and the loan has caused him 
financial difficulty. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint saying the lenders checks were not proportionate 
and it didnt make a fair lending decision. ELL disagreed saying, in summary, from its checks 
and the information Mr B provided it found the loan to be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr B required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make a fair lending decision?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this with a third-party income verification tool. It estimated 
his living costs using national statistics, adding a buffer to cover unexpected costs. It also 
checked Mr Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit 
history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the loan which was for car repairs. From 
these checks combined ELL concluded Mr B had monthly disposable income of £215.45 and 
so could afford to take on the loan.
Im not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate. But I wont comment further on this
as even based on the information it gathered, I dont think ELL made a fair lending decision.
 
Mr B was on a low income and ELLs affordability assessment concluded he would be left 
with £77.23 a month if he took out this loan. I think ELL should have been concerned this 
was low and may therefore mean the loan repayments became unsustainable should 
anything unexpected happen in the month. I appreciate it had already added a buffer to its 
estimate of his monthly costs  but it was adding a buffer to an assumed level of cost, not 
actuals. And there were some indications that Mr Bs income was not wholly stable. He had 
explained to ELL that he needed to take out a payday loan earlier in 2018 due to a shortfall 
in a bonus payment from his employer which meant he couldnt cover his outgoings. I think it 
ought to also have been concerned he needed his bonus to cover his monthly outgoings.  
Also the third-party income verification showed there had been significant variance in Mr Bs 
income during the previous 12 months.
ELL knew from the credit check it completed that he had available credit of £1465 on his 
credit cards so his monthly credit commitments could increase without any further checks to 
a level such that he would need to spend a significant proportion of his income to service his 
total debt.  
So in the round, whilst Mr B wasnt heavily indebted, I think there was enough evidence of a 
level of fragility in his finances for the lender to have realised there was a high risk he 
wouldnt be able to make the loan repayments sustainably over a period of 18 months. He 
went on to have problems making his repayments from the start of the loan term.
It follows I dont think ELL was right to give the loan to Mr B.I have found no evidence ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman