DRN-2784085
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFSL).
  
What happened
In 2016 Miss H acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement. In December 2019 
Miss H experienced shuddering and shaking of the car and took it to a dealership for 
investigation. 
It was unclear exactly what the cause of the problem was, but Miss H asked the dealership 
to investigate and repair the car. When they refused, Miss H raised her concerns with VFSL, 
as she felt that the car shouldnt be experiencing these problems given its age and mileage. 
VFSL responded to Miss Hs complaint on 29 January 2020 to say that they didnt think they 
were responsible for the repairs. They said that as Miss H has had the car for some time, 
they didnt think the faults were present at the point of supply, and so they wouldnt be able 
to help with the repairs now needed. Unhappy with this, Miss H brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Miss H had the car repaired independently on 7 February 2020, as she needed it for 
commuting to work. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss H. He thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time that it was supplied to Miss H, as it shouldnt have suffered engine failure 
when it did. He recommended that VFSL should pay for the cost of the repair, refund Miss H 
two months of her hire payments, refund Miss H the cost she paid to hire a replacement 
vehicle and pay £250 compensation. VFSL didnt agree with our investigators view. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. VFSL as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired new with a cash price of around £14,000. So, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper, 
more road worn vehicle and that it could be used, free from defects, for a considerable 
period of time. 
Miss H had travelled approximately 32,000 miles before experiencing problems with the car.  
The job sheet from the repair shows that there was a piston ring fault and cylinder bore 
damage. The car ultimately required a replacement engine. 
All things considered, I dont think the reasonable person would expect the car to have 
suffered such catastrophic engine failure that results in the need for a new engine at 3 years 
old and having travelled a relatively low mileage. It seems that there was likely an overall 
issue with the vehicle which has led to a premature failure of parts. Ive seen documents to 
show that the car was regularly services by Miss H. The issue doesnt appear to be one of 
normal wear and tear, nor have I seen any evidence that it was caused by driving style or 
third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, VFSL should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. Miss H has had the vehicle repaired, which I think was a reasonable action to take as 
she needed it in order to travel to and from work. So, VFSL should refund the cost of this at 
£1,598.75, plus 8% simple yearly interest. 
Miss H had no use of her vehicle between 10 December 2019 and 7 February 2020. And 
she was not provided with a courtesy car during the investigations or repairs. As soon as 
Miss H received confirmation from VFSL that they were not upholding her complaint, she 
arranged for the repairs to be completed, so I think she did all she could to mitigate her loss 
here. 
Our investigator has recommended that VFSL refund Miss H for two monthly payments and 
her hire car costs. But Miss H would always have had to pay for the use of a car, so I think 
its fair that VFSL refund Miss H for the time she was without a vehicle, and for her additional 
hire car costs. This means that Miss H would have paid her usual finance payment for the 
two weeks that she did have use of a vehicle whilst hers was in a garage. 
Miss H was without a vehicle for a total of seven weeks, from 10 December 2019 to 20 
January 2020, and from 1 February to 7 February 2020. So, VFSL should refund Miss H 
seven weeks of monthly payments at £271.08 plus 8% simple yearly interest. 
Miss H hired a vehicle at a cost of £188.76 for two weeks. The car that Miss H hired appears 
comparable to that which was financed. I think it would be difficult for Miss H to have found a 
short-term hire, at short notice, which would be comparable to the cost of a long-term hire, 
so I think these costs were reasonable in the circumstances. So, VFSL should reimburse 
Miss H for her hire costs at £188.76 plus 8% simple yearly interest. 
Miss H arranged for an inspection of the vehicle to determine what had happened and what 
needed to be repaired. Ive seen evidence that Miss H paid £34.80 for this diagnostic report, 
so VFSL should reimburse this cost plus 8% simple yearly interest. Finally, VFSL should pay Miss H £250 in compensation. This reflects the distress and 
inconvenience that Miss H has been put to in trying to have her car repaired, making a 
number of phone calls to resolve the situation, and a period where she needed to use taxis 
in order to get to and from work when she was unable to use her car. 
Miss H accepted my provision decision. 
VFSL havent replied to my provisional decision, and the deadline for responses has now 
passed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there havent been any further points made by either party, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to: 
Refund the cost of repairs to the vehicle at £1,598.75. 
Refund £271.08 of Miss Hs monthly rental payments for the time she was without a 
vehicle.  
Refund Miss H the cost of hiring a vehicle at £188.76
Refund the £34.80 diagnostic cost
Pay Miss H £250 compensation
VFSL should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If VFSL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman