DRN-2973162
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, has complained about the transfer of his benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a person pension plan. It says Mr F was advised 
to transfer by Family First Financial Services Limited (3FS) and another financial business 
(which Ill call Firm B).
Mr Fs representative considers that the advice provided to Mr F was flawed and has 
resulted in him suffering a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business. This included the possibility of decoupling the BSPS from the company. Mr F 
was a member of the BSPS and he became concerned at the possibility of his pension 
moving into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) and at the announcement of a new scheme 
to replace the BSPS. Unsure of his options and worried by rumours amongst fellow BSPS 
members, he approached his longstanding financial adviser (since 2003) 3FS in 
November 2016.
3FS arranged a meeting with Mr F and completed an updated fact find. Mr F also completed 
an attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire. 3FS didnt have the necessary permissions to advise 
Mr F on the pension transfer so it referred him to Firm B and provided Firm B with the 
information it had collected about Mr F at that time.
In January 2017 Firm B advised Mr F to transfer from BSPS to a personal pension plan with 
a provider I will call Firm C. 
In May 2018 Mr F contacted 3FS about taking his pension benefits. 3FS provided advice 
which resulted in him switching his personal pension with Firm C to his existing account with 
another provider (Firm D) to facilitate taking his benefits.
In February 2020 Mr F, through his representative, complained about the advice to 3FS and 
Firm B. 3FS responded that it didnt provide him with any advice on his defined benefit 
transfer and so werent able to investigate the matter further. I understand Firm B 
investigated the complaint but concluded the advice it provided was suitable. Firm B has 
since gone into liquidation.
Mr Fs representative referred his complaint to our service, saying 3FS should be held
liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between the two businesses. The
representative said Mr F had been verbally advised to transfer by 3FS and that the
transfer of his BSPS benefits could not have taken place without 3FS because Mr F had no 
contact with Firm B.
One of our investigators considered things but didnt agree. He wasnt persuaded that 3FS 
had given Mr F any advice to transfer or that Mr F had relied on such advice. He didnt think 
3FSs actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr F to Firm B and said that if there were 
inconsistencies in the information provided to Mr F or a lack of discussion about what Mr Fs 
retirement would look like, that would be an issue for the firm providing advice. 
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr F 
and 3FS have about this matter. Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support 
their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that has been 
provided to this service in respect of this complaint. However, I hope neither party will take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised, but 
to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches
either; thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My 
role is to decide if 3FS has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for 
any financial losses for which it is responsible and/or compensation for any distress and
inconvenience caused. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Mr F is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. 3FS has said 
that it didnt advise Mr F on the transfer and confirmed the reason that it referred Mr F to 
Firm B was because it didnt have the permissions to give this sort of advice. 
Firm B, on the other hand, had the relevant permissions to complete this transfer. The BSPS 
wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the request hadnt come from a firm with the 
correct permissions. And although Ive noted the comments of Mr Fs representative relating 
to statements made by 3FS in support of the transfer and that it didnt correct Mr Fs 
misunderstanding about his choices, there is no documentary evidence in this complaint that 
it advised Mr F to transfer. And considering it didnt have the relevant permissions, I wouldnt 
have expected 3FS to have commented on Mr Fs options; that would be for the advising 
firm to do. 
Mr Fs representative says 3FS breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr F fairly, act 
with care, have due regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interest when 
dealing with Firm B.  But I consider that when 3FS introduced Mr F to Firm B in expectation 
that it would provide suitable advice, it made this introduction because Firm B had defined 
benefit pension transfer permissions, and 3FS did not. As 3FS adviser wasnt authorised to 
provide advice on defined benefit transfers, I think that it was reasonable for him to refer 
Mr F to an adviser with the necessary permissions. So, Im satisfied that this was 
discharging its regulatory duties to which Mr Fs representatives refer.Nevertheless, I acknowledge the possibility that there may have been discussions between 
Mr F and 3FS which may have given him the impression that transferring would be in his 
best interests. But it was Firm B which was responsible for the formal advice. And I think its 
more likely than not, or at least to be reasonably expected, that Mr F would have placed 
considerable weight on a written recommendation, from a business with the proper 
qualifications to do so, which would, or at least should, have taken into account his 
circumstances and objectives. 
I appreciate that Mr F thinks more could have been done to prevent him from transferring
given the advice he received from Firm B. But Im not persuaded that this was the 
responsibility of the 3FS given it had discharged its duty to only advise on an area it was
qualified to act. In any event, it would seem contradictory to say on the one hand that 3FS
couldnt advise on the defined benefit transfer, while on the other suggesting it should have 
identified faults in the advice of a separate, authorised firm, that was permitted to provide 
such advice.
Mr Fs representative says that even if 3FS didnt provide advice, they can still be held 
responsible because but for the introduction to Firm B, Mr F wouldnt have transferred his 
pension. Its said there was a joint venture between the two firms and referenced a previous 
decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers supports its argument 
that 3FS should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm B.  
Ive thought about this, but an introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in the 
regulators Dispute Resolution rules. And ultimately, Mr F transferred his pension benefits 
after Firm B advised him to do so. I appreciate Mr F said he never met with a Firm B adviser 
and that 3FS remained his point of contact and helped him complete the transfer paperwork. 
But I dont think this led to Mr Fs losses. This is because by this point, it appears Mr F had 
already decided to transfer having received advice from Firm B. All in all, Im not persuaded 
that 3FS gave Mr F any information or advice that would have led him to transfer from BSPS 
if Firm B had advised him not to do so. 
So I also think that any loss would be attributable to Firm Bs advice, and not to the 
introduction as such. In other words, I dont consider 3FS was the cause of losses that 
resulted from the transfer. It was the transfer advice and the subsequent actions of Firm B 
that led to Mr Fs loss, not the introduction made by 3FS.
Furthermore, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the 
right outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual 
circumstances will inevitably vary. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I 
come to on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be 
different to what a court would decide. 
So in conclusion, on a fair and reasonable assessment of this complaint, I unable to 
conclude that 3FS advised Mr F to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement or that it made an error or treated him unfairly. As such, I wont be requiring 
3FS to pay compensation to Mr F or to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman