DRN-3394737
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Oplo PL Ltd was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In January 2019 Oplo provided Mr F with a loan of £5,000 repayable over 36 months. The 
monthly repayments were £196.89. Mr F said the purpose of the loan was home 
improvements. He repaid the loan in October 2020 with the proceeds of another loan.
Mr F complained that Oplo hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to him.
Oplo looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan 
was affordable. 
Mr F referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didnt think the 
loan was affordable. 
As Oplo didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Fs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr F would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
With regard to the first question, Oplo asked Mr F about his income and expenditure. Mr F 
told Oplo his net monthly income was £1,760. It verified his income using industry standard 
checks and also did a credit check on him. Im satisfied that this would have shown Oplo: 
Mr F owed £4,551 on three credit cards, two loans, two mail order accounts and a 
current account.
His half share of a joint mortgage was £305.50 a month. 
Hed taken out twelve new credit commitments in the previous six months, including 
some cash advances on credit cards.
He was spending just over 25% of his monthly income on credit repayments 
(excluding his share of the mortgage).
He used a large amount of his available credit but hadnt used the overdraft facility of 
£500 on his current account in the past 24 months.
Generally he was managing his finances well with no defaults, missed payments or 
arrears. 
Oplo said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of 
affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, 
household composition and residential status. It calculated Mr F would spend £618.51 a 
month on living expenses. It said based on this, its affordability calculation showed that Mr F 
would have a monthly disposable income of £267.82 after taking into account his existing 
credit commitments (including his share of the mortgage) and the new monthly repayments to Oplo. Mr F had an unsecured loan with monthly repayments of £146 which was due to be 
repaid in full four months after his application. At that point his disposable income would be 
correspondingly increased.
Oplos notes show that it spoke to Mr F before making the loan to discuss various queries 
arising from the credit search. Ive seen the notes of that call. They show:
Mr F said some of the credit had been taken out so that he could build up a good credit 
profile after living abroad for six years.
Hed taken out the loan with repayments of £146 a month because his car needed a 
new engine and he required a car for his job.
Other credit had been taken out, including the cash advances, to fund home 
improvements. He needed the loan from Oplo to renovate his house but wouldnt need 
any further credit to finish the works. 
His partner paid half the household bills, although some were in his sole name.
Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with Oplo. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that Oplo should gather and 
check some detailed information about Mr Fs financial situation before it agreed to lend to 
him. I think Oplos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. So Ive looked at the results 
of Oplos checks to see whether the conclusion it reached, to approve Mr Fs loan 
application, was reasonable.
I think Oplo should have been concerned that initially with the new monthly loan repayment 
Mr F would be committed to paying about a third of his income on servicing his outstanding 
debt (excluding his share of the mortgage). In four months time that could be expected to 
drop assuming he repaid one of his existing loans as planned but his credit commitments 
would still be over a quarter of his income (again excluding his mortgage). In my opinion this 
was a clear warning sign that Mr F was over-stretched financially and an indication that he 
was unlikely to be able to maintain such a high level of debt sustainably over the three year 
term of the loan.
So I think Oplo ought to have been concerned the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable 
for Mr F. It follows that I think Oplo was wrong to give Mr F the loan. 
Ive also thought about whether Oplo acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Mr F has had the benefit of the loan capital. But as the loan should not have been given 
to him, he should not have to pay interest or charges on what he borrowed. So, I direct 
Oplo to:
remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr F has 
made as payments towards the capital.
if reworking Mr Fs loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Oplo should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date of  settlement.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo should give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and require Oplo PL Ltd to put things 
right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman