DRN-4064086
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint concerns the response of Lloyds Bank PLC to her claims made under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Where I refer to Mrs Ws 
submissions and evidence, I include those made by her husband and their representatives.
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs W bought a one-week timeshare at a cost of £7,000. In 2002 the 
timeshare company went out of business. Mr and Mrs W were told that they would lose their 
membership unless they switched their timeshare to a points-based arrangement. They did 
not want to lose the money they had spent, so agreed to the change  at a cost of a further 
£2,490. In 2003 Mr and Mrs W were told there had been an error in the calculation of their 
points and they needed to pay additional maintenance fees.
In March 2011 Mr and Mrs W were on holiday in Portugal, where they attended a welcome 
meeting. They were persuaded to upgrade their points to Pure Points, which they were told 
gave them greater flexibility.
In 2012 Mr and Mrs W wanted to add their adult children to their membership, so they could 
use it without having to pay extra fees. To do that, they bought further points at a cost of 
£3,500. In 2014 they decided to remove their children from the membership. Again, this 
required a further purchase of points and payment of a further £3,500.
The payments for the changes in 2012 and 2104 were made by credit card.
In January 2019 Mrs Ws representatives contacted Lloyds to say that she had been misled 
into entering into the timeshare and holiday club contracts and into making payments for 
them. Because some of the payments had been made with Mrs Ws Lloyds credit card, it 
was liable in the same way as the supplier was.
Lloyds said that, since the underlying contracts went back to 1997 and the original timeshare 
company had gone out of business in 2002, any claims would be out of time. It said it had no 
liability to Mrs W. Her representatives said that the claim did not arise from events in 2002 
but from later purchases. They referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered what had happened, focusing on the payments in 2012 and 
2014. In respect of the 2012 agreement, she thought that any claim against the seller would 
be out of time, so the banks response had been fair. In respect of the 2014 agreement, she 
did not believe that there was enough information about that sale to show that there had 
been any misrepresentation.
Mrs W did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements.
I have not seen details of the payments here, but Mrs Ws submissions indicate that only the 
2012 and 2014 purchases were paid for with her Lloyds credit card. So, whatever the 
circumstances of any earlier sales might have been, Lloyds has no responsibility for them.
Limitation Act 1980
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation or 
breach of contract cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A cause of action in misrepresentation accrues when the statement or statements which 
induce the contract are made. Any statements which might have induced Mrs W into the 
2012 contract would have been made in or around April 2012, or possibly even earlier. She 
indicated that she had a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act early in 2019  
more than six years later.
I think it very likely therefore that a court would have concluded in 2019 that any claim 
against the seller in respect of the 2012 sale would be outside the time limit in the Limitation 
Act. It follows that the banks decision not to meet any claim was reasonable.
The 2014 contract
In bringing this complaint, Mrs W has commented on the actions of the timeshare company 
and the holiday [club] over some 20 years. Indeed, it seems that she and Mr W have had 
many concerns, even though they have continued to buy additional points. So, by the time of 
the 2014 purchase of additional points, they would have been aware of the benefits of club 
membership, as well as any pitfalls.
However, those general allegations relate to the timeshare and then the holiday club as a 
whole. It does not seem to me that Mrs W has really alleged anything which could amount to 
either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation in respect of the 2014 agreement. That is, 
she has not identified anything she was told which was untrue and which induced her to buy 
further points, or anything which the seller agreed to do and which it has not done.
Section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether there is an unfair relationship, a court can consider any linked agreement. That can include a contract financed by a credit 
card payment.
In this case, Mrs W used her existing credit card to buy additional points in a holiday club of 
which she was already a member. There was no direct link between the membership of the 
club, the sale of additional points and the provision of the credit card.
Only a court can decide if an agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A, 
and only a court can make an order under section 140B. I must however take those 
provisions into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that but believe 
it is unlikely that a court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.
Conclusions
It is not for me to say whether Mrs W has a valid claim against the holiday club or whether, if 
she does, she could bring that claim against Lloyds. Nor is it for me to say whether the credit 
agreement in this case creates an unfair relationship under section 140A. What I must do is 
determine Mrs Ws complaint about Lloyds by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. In doing that, I must have regard to any relevant law  which includes the parts 
of the Consumer Credit Act to which I have referred.
In the circumstances, however, I think that the banks response to Mr Ts claims was fair and 
reasonable.
I gave Mrs W one month in which to respond to my provisional decision. At Mrs Ws request, 
the investigator extended that deadline by two weeks, but she has provided no further 
evidence or arguments. Lloyds confirmed it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change my overall conclusions here.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman