DRN-3597830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money they lost when they 
were the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in July and August 2020, 
Mr and Mrs C fell victim to an investment scam. Mr C sent payments from their Lloyds 
account and an account he held with another bank to what he believed to be a genuine 
investment firm, but unfortunately, he had been speaking with a scammer. 
Mr C said he found the investment opportunity advertised on social media. Wanting to know 
more, he contacted the purported investment company. He spoke with them on the phone 
and they pointed him to their websites, which he said looked legitimate. He said they called 
him numerous times and told him he could make huge profits in order to entice him to invest.  
He had previously invested with another company, and the scammers told him that their 
investment company was part of the same group which gave him confidence in them. So, he 
sent a payment of £1,000 from the account held with another bank and he was told he had 
made returns. So they sent him his initial investment back minus a 10% commission. This 
persuaded him to further invest, so he made two payments from their Lloyds account  one 
for £4,000 and one the following month for £5,000 to a cryptocurrency account he held in his 
name which the scammers had asked him to set up. The scammers then gave him details of 
another e-wallet which he forwarded the funds on to, and gave him access to a faux trading 
account where they told him he could see how his investment was progressing. 
When Mr C tried to make the first payment, Lloyds were concerned that the payment may be 
being made as the result of a fraud or scam as they detected that someone may have 
remote access to his computer when he was making the payment. They asked Mr C to 
attend branch with identification before they would allow any payment to be processed. 
When he did so a few days later, he spoke with branch staff and Lloyds fraud team on the 
phone. He told them that the payment was going to his own cryptocurrency account, and he 
had been making payments to them for over a year from his account held with another bank. 
He assured them he had fully researched the investment opportunity, and no one had 
instructed him to make the payment. He said he was confident in the payment he was 
making. He explained that he had allowed a family friend remote access to his account on 
an unrelated matter, but that he would remove this access and run an anti-virus programme. 
After warning Mr C about the risks associated with making faster payments, they proceeded 
to process the payment on their behalf. Lloyds did not intervene on the second payment. 
The scam came to light in September 2020 when the scammers asked Mr C to pay a further 
£4,000 to them in order to release his investment and earnings which they said were worth 
around £27,000. When Mr C declined to do so, the scammers ceased all communication 
with him, and the websites and trading account were taken down. Mr C spoke with a friend 
who advised him it sounded like a scam. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds in December 2020. He accepted he had made the payments 
himself but felt that Lloyds should have done more to protect him from the scam. Lloyds 
looked into what happened and declined to refund the losses. They said that: 
The payments were not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM 
code, so they were not liable to refund him under the provisions of this code. This 
was because the payments had gone to a cryptocurrency account that Mr C set up in 
his own name, that he had access to; 
When the first payment had flagged as suspicious, Mr C attended branch and had 
the risks of faster payments and cryptocurrency investments explained to him, as 
well as granting anyone remote access to his device. Mr C had assured Lloyds that 
he was sending money to his own cryptocurrency account, and that he had 
experience of investing this way from his account held with another bank. He assured 
them no one was making him make the payment. Lloyds were persuaded that Mr C 
was not falling victim to a scam, so they allowed the payments to go through; 
They feel they did everything they could do to warn Mr C of the risk of fraud and 
scams, and so they did not think they needed to refund his losses. 
Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so they brought their complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what happened and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. This was because they agreed that the payments were not covered under the CRM 
code, and also believed that Lloyds had done everything they could be expected to do to try 
and protect Mr and Mrs C from the risk of fraud of financial harm. So, they didnt recommend 
that Lloyds needed to refund the losses. 
Mr C remained unhappy. He said that: 
His life had been torn apart by the impact of the scam. His health has been 
deteriorating since the scam, including suffering from stress related problems. He 
has lost all his financial security too. 
He didnt feel that the bank or our service had taken into account the fact he was 
vulnerable due to his age at the time of the scam  he was in his late sixties.
The transactions were highly unusual considering his historic account usage. 
He felt he was the perfect victim for the scammers  his personal circumstances and 
the concurrent world events, combined with their sophisticated, manipulative, 
aggressive sales tactics on him as a vulnerable and unsuspecting person. 
The banks response has re-traumatised him as it feels like they are on the side of 
the scammers  they could have done much more to protect him from financial harm. 
His wife is older than him and this loss of life savings has caused them to fear for 
their future. Mr C is having to work despite being in his late sixties to replace the 
money lost to the scammers. He said he is struggling to keep his head above water, 
at all levels. 
He did not think that the bank followed the Banking Protocol and BBA best practice 
note as they should have. 
He does not think the bank met their duty of care to him, given their extensive 
experience in such matters compared to his. The complex issue has caused a lot of harm to him. 
Our investigators opinion on the case remained unchanged. So, as there has been no 
agreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr and Mrs C were the victims of a cruel 
and callous scam. I was saddened to hear of what they have been put through. I can tell 
from the evidence we have that this has had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs C. So I 
would like to start by offering my sympathies for what they have been put through in this 
difficult time. 
My role here is to assess Lloyds actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds liable for Mr and 
Mrs Cs loss. So, having considered everything, I am not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont think I can fairly 
say that Lloyds should reimburse him with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammers. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr and 
Mrs C were the victims of a sophisticated scam. Mr C made the payments himself and under 
the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. In this case, 
this does not include the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code as this code requires the payment to have gone directly to a scammer, and in 
this case the funds went to an account Mr C set up and had access to in his name with the 
legitimate cryptocurrency platform. But based on the other relevant rules relating to 
authorised push payment scams, I think Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Lloyds should have been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions. In this case it is not in dispute that the first 
attempted payment should have given rise to concerns from Lloyds that Mr and Mrs C may 
be at risk of fraud or financial harm. They recognised that Mr Cs device had remote access software on it  which can be used in scams. This is why they asked Mr C to come into 
branch to verify his identity and to discuss the payment in question. 
Due to the unusual nature of the payment the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice required Lloyds to question Mr C about the transaction and the reasons for making it 
before they agreed to process it on his and Mrs Cs behalf. Im satisfied that this type of 
scam  a cryptocurrency investment scam  would have been well-known to banks at the 
time Mr C made the payment. And Ive had the opportunity to review the evidence relating to 
the questions asked of Mr C in branch. He said he spent about two hours in branch 
discussing the first transaction  including speaking with two members of branch staff and 
then having a lengthy call with the fraud team to discuss the payment. They tested the 
legitimacy and purpose of his payment by asking detailed and probing questions about his 
investment. In summary: 
When asked about the purpose of the payment, Mr C explained that he was investing 
in cryptocurrency, and was going through a company he had used previously and 
had received returns. 
He explained that when he had to withdraw his funds due to a traumatic life event, he 
got them back without difficulty. He said this was why he trusted them  and that he 
had done even more research this time around before deciding to invest. 
Mr C said he knew there had been a lot of internet reports about scams so he 
understood why Lloyds were doing what they were doing and thanked them for 
looking after his account. 
Lloyds explained that a lot of people find investments online or through social media 
offering very appealing returns  Mr C said he did not find this investment this way. 
Nevertheless, Lloyds continued to warn Mr C about how these types of scams work  
they said people find these investments and then a random person will then contact 
you and may take control of your computer and talk you through the transaction 
process. They said at the end of the process, they had seen customers lose 
thousands of pounds  and that these customers were unable to get these funds 
back when they realised they had been victims of scams. 
Lloyds explained that customers often get coached to not tell their banks the truth in 
these circumstances. Mr C confirmed that he had not been pressured to make the 
payment, and he had decided to make it without third party involvement. 
Lloyds said that their conversation had alleviated their concerns about the payment  
and that Mr C didnt sound like he may be confused about the payment. Mr C 
confirmed that his only concern was having his account unblocked so other 
transactions could be processed such as funding direct debits. 
Lloyds explained that he should see if there was an option to pay via debit card 
rather than transfer as it offered further protections  and if he chose to go ahead 
with a transfer it could be thought of as the same as handing over cash in that when 
it is gone it is gone and Lloyds would not be able to get it back. They explained that 
debit card payments offered further protection. 
Lloyds said from what Mr C had said to them that the payment sounded fine  but 
that he was taking the risk of no refund if things did go wrong. Mr C said he 
understood exactly where Lloyds were coming from and exactly what they were 
saying. Lloyds then went through their fraud and scams warning, and Mr C confirmed 
he understood and agreed. Mr C again confirmed he wished to go ahead with his payment and that no one had approached him  that he had allowed a known and 
trusted person access to his computer but that he would run anti virus software and 
remove the remote access application when he got home. 
I think that the questions Lloyds asked Mr C were detailed, probing and proportionate in the 
circumstances. They asked questions to try and see if his situation had any of the typical 
hallmarks of this kind of scam  and even when Mr C said that it did not  they continued to 
educate him on how these kind of scams work and how they unfold. They adequately 
warned him about the risks of making this type of payment, and what could happen if things 
went wrong  namely that he may not get his funds back. They suggested ways in which he 
could protect himself  by making the payment on his debit card. I dont think that Mr C said 
anything that should have alerted them to the fact he was falling victim to a scam  he said 
he had invested this way before, and he sounded confident due to his previous experience 
and his own research. But I think that Lloyds were proficient in continuing to educate Mr C 
with advice that could have helped him recognise that he was falling victim to a scam 
anyway. I think the primary cause for concern with the first attempted payment was that 
Lloyds identified that remote access software was on Mr Cs device  but I think his 
explanation as to why this was the case was convincing and understandably alleviated 
Lloyds concerns. It is truly unfortunate that Mr C did not recognise that he was falling victim 
to the scam here, such that the payment could have been stopped. But I dont think this was 
by any particular failing of Lloyds  I think this was due to the sophistication and tactics of 
the scammers themselves. 
So, having considered all of this, I dont think there was anything further that Lloyds could 
have uncovered from further questioning Mr C to alert them to the scam. Given how the 
conversation went and the visit to branch, I think it was reasonable to then process both the 
scam payments. And so I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to refund 
the losses. 
Mr C argues that he was vulnerable to the scam due to his age. And if this was the case, I 
would expect Lloyds to have done what they did  stop the payment and have an in-depth 
conversation with him about the payment. Having listened to the conversation I think he 
didnt sound confused or like he may lack the capacity to make this sort of payment, and so I 
would not have expected them to have prevented him from making it purely due to his age. 
Ive also considered what attempts Lloyds made to recover the funds from the scammers. 
Unfortunately, as the payments went to a Coinbase account in his name before being sent 
on to the scammers, Lloyds would not be expected to try and recover the funds. So I cannot 
say they have done anything wrong here. 
In summary, I understand that Mr and Mrs C believe Lloyds should have gone further and 
should have prevented the scam  but I am afraid I dont agree. Unfortunately Lloyds are not 
able to identify every scam. I would expect them to look out for the hallmarks of scams and 
recognise these red flags, but I am not persuaded these red flags existed in this case after 
Lloyds spoke to Mr C. I would also expect them to advise their customers about the type of 
checks they can do themselves, and the risks involved in sending money  and I am 
satisfied Lloyds did this in this case. So, whilst I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs C have been 
the victims of a cruel and callous scam  it is ultimately the scammers who are at fault here, 
and I do not find that it would be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to refund their losses. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman