DRN-3843557
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) is of unsatisfactory quality. He wants VWFS to 
accept his rejection of the car and provide him with a full refund.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor. For ease, I will refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mr R.
What happened
Mr R obtained a new car using a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in September 2020.
He says that almost immediately he had difficulties with the cars screen and multimedia 
interface (MMI) and with the rear reading light. He said the digital dashboard and the main 
screen kept blacking out whilst the car was being driven.
He took the car back to the supplying garage in February 2021 and the garage completed a 
software update but could find no other fault. Mr R said the fault remained and he returned 
the car to the garage again in June and in September. The supplying garage couldnt 
replicate the fault. It inspected the car again in October 2021 and on this occasion identified 
a fault and ordered a replacement infotainment system. But, after this was fitted, Mr R said 
he continued to experience problems, most notably with the screen blacking out whilst he 
was driving.
He complained to the supplying garage and said he wanted to reject the car. The garage 
said he needed to complain to VWFS. VWFS upheld his complaint but didnt accept Mr Rs 
rejection of the car. It said it couldnt take any further action because the garage had 
instructed solicitors.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. But neither party 
agreed with the compensation shed recommended, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. I explained why and I set 
out what I thought VWFS needed to do to put things right. I said:
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is the supplier of goods 
under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, 
I would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) 
materialised.
I am not going to repeat the detail of the timeline of events here. In summary, the car 
was brand-new when it was supplied. So its reasonable to expect it to be fault-free 
for a reasonable period of time. Mr R reported a fault within a few months of the car 
being supplied and, despite it being returned to the garage on at least four occasions 
and a part being replaced, Im satisfied from the evidence Mr Rs provided that the 
fault remains. In the circumstances, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied.
The supplying garage failed in its attempt to repair the fault. In the circumstances, 
I find VWFS should accept Mr Rs rejection of the car. And its told us it agrees to 
this.
Whilst VWFS has agreed Mr R can return the car, without the need to make any 
further monthly payments, both parties disagree with the compensation he should be 
paid. Ive considered this carefully.
Deposit
I find its fair that VWFS refunds the deposit Mr R paid, plus interest. The hire 
purchase agreement shows a deposit of £967.61; Mr R has provided an extract from 
his bank statement which shows he paid £750 to the supplying garage; and VWFS 
says Mr R paid a deposit of £222.61.
VWFS told us that although Mr R paid £750, some of this went towards the 
settlement of his existing finance agreement. And that the figure shown on the hire 
purchase agreement includes a contribution from the supplying garage. Im satisfied 
from the figures VWFS has provided to us that Mr R contributed £222.61 to the 
deposit and this is the sum he should be refunded.
Monthly payments
Mr R has had use of the car and I find its fair that he pays for that use. I think the 
monthly payments hes made fairly reflect the use hes had of the car.
But, he obtained a brand-new car and he reasonably expected it to be fault free. 
Whilst the fault didnt stop him driving the car, it has clearly spoiled his enjoyment of 
it. And, when the screen blacked out whilst he was driving, he couldnt see the 
dashboard, including the speedometer, which could have impacted his safety.
Taking all this into account, I think its fair that VWFS refund three months payments 
 a total of £956.67  to compensate Mr R for his lack of enjoyment of his new car.
Charges on termination
VWFS says that when the car is collected, it will be assessed for damage and excess 
mileage. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr R to be charged for any resulting 
costs.I say this because he was supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Hes had to continue to drive it for much longer than he should have done because 
the supplying garage failed to fix the fault and then VWFS failed to accept his 
rejection of the car  until it responded to our investigators view of the complaint. Ive 
already explained that Mr R should pay for his use of the car; its not fair or 
reasonable that he should be charged anything further. When the car is collected, 
I find that Mr R should not be subject to any further charges.
Distress and inconvenience
Being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused Mr R 
distress and inconvenience. He had to return it to the supplying garage on several 
occasions. Mr R also told us that, when the car was in the garage, he had to pay for 
a hire car. Although the cost of this was fairly minimal, I find he should have been 
provided with a courtesy car.
I appreciate Mr R is disappointed by the £250 compensation recommended by our 
investigator. But, having carefully considered this, and taking into account that he 
was still able to drive the car, I think £250 is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Mr R accepted my provisional decision. But he asked if the most recent monthly payment  
paid on 25 November  could also be refunded.
VWFS said it had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has asked that his most recent monthly payment be refunded, taking into account my 
conclusion that he shouldnt have to make any further monthly payments. And I dont find 
that to be unreasonable. 
Aside from that, as neither party has provided any new evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I dont find any reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should:
1. Terminate the agreement, at no further cost to Mr R. He should not be charged any 
further monthly payments, or any charge for excess mileage, or damage/refurbishment 
charges.
2. Refund the monthly payment made on 25 November 2022 and, if paid, the payment due 
on 25 December 2022.
3. Collect the car at no cost to Mr R and at a convenient time for him.
4. Refund the deposit Mr R paid of £222.61 plus 8% simple interest per year from the date 
it was paid to the date of settlement *.5. Pay Mr R £956.67, being three months payments, to reflect his loss of enjoyment of the 
car.
6. The agreement should be recorded as settled on Mr Rs credit file or removed altogether.
7. Pay Mr R £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman