The complaint  
Mr M complains the Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis -sold him a monthly  
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he applied for a store card in  
2000.  
What happened  
Mr M took out a store card in 2000 and at the same time applied for a PPI policy. The policy  
would repay 15% of his card balance in the event of a successful claim. He first complained  
against another company but FICL accepted responsibility for this sale  so we can continue  
to look a t the case for him.  
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. As  
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a final  
decision. Mr M added that he hadnt been given any i nformation about PPI at the time of the  
sale; he had around £3,000 to £6,000 in savings in 2000; he was living with his parents and  
had no outgoings.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Id  
like to explain why in some more detail.  
I could see from the evidence that Mr M was eligible for the PPI, but he says he wasnt given  
any information at the time of the sale. I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr M  
took out the policy in store. But I do have a copy of his completed application form which I  
think will be able to give us m ore information about what happened in 2000.  
Ive looked at the application form and can see theres a box on the form headed Account  
Cover. It said Mr M should only sign this box if you require Account Cover. And Mr Ms  
signature appears in the accou nt cover box below the sentence Yes, I would like to protect  
my account with Account Cover. Mr M was also asked to sign the form separately to get  
the credit, so I can reasonably assume he must have seen his selections on the front of the  
form and agreed  to them by signing. So I think he probably did choose to have the optional  
PPI attached to his store card account.  
FICL says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr M. This means it didnt have to check if the  
policy was suitable for his circumstances at th e time. It was up to Mr M to do this for himself.  
But FICL did have to provide Mr M with enough information about the policy which was clear,  
fair and not misleading to enable him to make an informed choice. So I looked for the sort of  
DRN-1105849information Id expe ct Mr M to have been given in 2000.  
As the sale took place a long time ago, I dont know whether FICL adequately brought the  
key features, including the cost and benefits of the policy to Mr Ms attention. I note Mr M  
said he had savings, sick pay from his employer and lived with his parents. I think the policy  
could have paid out at a time when he might have needed cover if he couldnt work because  
of an accident or sickness. And I noted a successful claim on the PPI policy could have  
lasted longer  than his savings and sick pay. So  having decided he probably chose to buy  
the PPI - I think he would have received a useful benefit from the policy. And I dont think  
that any more information about the policy cost and benefits would have put him off fr om 
buying PPI.  
I also dont know how FICL pointed out the things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions) to  
Mr M. And although Im open to the possibility that it didnt do everything it needed to, from  
what Mr M told me about his circumstances at the time, I dont think he wouldve been  
affected by the main exclusions. So even if hed been given more information about the  
exclusions, I dont think it wouldve put him off from buying the PPI.  
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was a n optional product which Mr M  
chose to have. I think he could have found the policy useful if he needed to make a claim  
and I dont think better information about the PPI would have stopped him from taking it out.  
So  although I know Mr M feels very stron gly about what happened in 2000 - I dont think  
the policy was mis -sold and Im not going to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision  
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im requi red to ask Mr M to accept or  
reject my decision before 8 January 2020.  
Amrit Mangra  
Ombudsman  