DRN-2815962
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Starr Europe Insurance Ltd dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Starr includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr P had a travel insurance policy with Starr which had start 
and end dates of 27 February 2020 and 25 March 2020 respectively. Mr P made a claim 
against his policy in relation to medical expenses he incurred after he was taken ill whilst 
on a trip. 
Mr P complains that Starr wants to conduct a phone interview with him before 
proceeding to deal with his claim. He wants Starr to reimburse his medical costs without 
conducting a phone interview. 
The background to the complaint is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ps policy contains the following:
General Conditions
You must comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of your 
policy. If you do not comply we may at our option cancel the policy or refuse to deal 
with your claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment.
[]
4. You must supply them [the claims handlers] with full details of all the 
circumstances and any other information and documentation we may require.
In general terms, its for Starr to decide what information it needs and in what form. I 
dont think that Starrs request for a phone interview with Mr P was unfair or 
unreasonable in this case. Theres nothing to prevent Starr from requesting a phone 
interview, if it considers thats what it needs in order to validate or assess Mr Ps 
claim. Its not obliged to put its questions to Mr P in writing in the first instance or to 
deal with Mr Ps claim based solely on the written information hes provided. 
 
I appreciate that Mr P provided Starr with extensive documentation in support of his 
claim. But its for Starr, not Mr P, to decide what information it requires. There are no 
grounds on which I could fairly direct Starr to deal with Mr Ps claim based only on 
written information Mr P has provided and without conducting the phone interview it 
considers necessary. 
It is, of course, open to Mr P to decline Starrs request for a phone interview. In those 
circumstances, Starr can choose to cancel Mr Ps policy, refuse to deal with the claim 
or reduce the amount of any payment. 
For these reasons, I dont think Starr has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so I dont uphold 
Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman