DRN-3929097
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc unfairly registered a default on his credit file 
and made his situation more difficult to deal with due to poor communication. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr K opened a credit card with Capital One, the card had a credit limit of £200. 
Over the next month Mr K spent £297.15 on the card (including cash withdrawal fees and 
interest charged) meaning that his account was over the arranged credit limit.
In the following months no payments were made to the card, but interest and late payment 
fees continued to accrue so the balance increased to over £300. As a result, Capital One 
issued a notice of default to Mr K on 29 January 2022. At this stage Mr K got in touch with 
Capital One to try to discuss a way forward, and he asked if Capital One could speak to his 
mother, Mrs K. 
Unfortunately, no agreement was reached to repay the debt, so Mr Ks account was 
defaulted on 2 March 2022. On 7 March 2022 Mrs K was added to Mr Ks account as an 
authorised user so capital One could speak with her, and a repayment plan of £30 per month 
was then agreed for the outstanding debt. 
But Mr K, and Mrs K as his representative, still felt that the default was unfair, so they raised 
a complaint with Capital One. Capital One looked into what had happened but didnt feel it 
had done anything wrong, so as Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy they referred Mr Ks 
complaint to us.
At this stage Mrs K, on behalf of Mr K, also raised concerns with Capital One about whether 
the credit card was affordable to Mr K when it was taken out. But in their submissions to us 
Mr K and Mrs K said they would raise that as a separate complaint with our service as 
Capital One was looking into it as a separate complaint at its end. As a result I will not be 
addressing any issues of affordability here. I will look only at the issues with the default, and 
what then happened afterwards, which is what Mr K and Mrs K have asked us to look into.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, initially he explained that he felt 
Capital One had acted fairly as it had made repeated efforts to contact Mr K before issuing 
the default. But following further input from Mrs K, he agreed that Capital One could have 
made more effort to discuss things with Mrs K at an earlier stage as Mr K had requested. 
Capital One also reconsidered what Mrs K had said about this and as a result it offered to 
remove the default if the outstanding arrears on Mr Ks account were cleared. 
Ultimately, on 26 September 2022, Mrs K cleared the arrears on Mr Ks account and Capital 
One confirmed it would remove the default, but this was preceded by several weeks of 
confusion about exactly how the arrears were being calculated. Our Investigator felt this was 
an appropriate way to resolve the complaint. But Mr K and Mrs K remain unhappy overall 
with the service Capital One has provided, specifically they feel it has caused additional 
confusion and stress at an already difficult time, so this complaint has now been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
When Capital One issued the default notice to Mr K in late January 2022 he had made no 
payments to his credit card since it had been opened over six months earlier. And I can see 
that prior to sending the default notice Capital One had made repeated attempts to get in 
touch with Mr K to discuss his account. So I consider it was fair for Capital One to issue a 
default notice at this stage given the conduct of Mr Ks account.
I can see that Mr K contacted Capital One when he received the default notice, on 4 
February 2022. Hes said he was unable to get through the automated screening system on 
the phone as he didnt know his card number but he made contact via an online form and I 
can see that Capital One replied the same day to say it would give him some breathing 
space by suspending interest and charges on the account and that someone would call Mr K 
to discuss his account within a day.
Capital Ones notes show that it then tried to call Mr K that same day, but was unable to get 
through and instead left a message saying it would be able to take him through security 
without his card number if needed. The next day Capital One also emailed Mr K to reiterate 
what it had said in its online message about breathing space and the suspension of charges. 
Mr K messaged Capital One online again a couple of weeks later, to say he was still trying to 
get help and hadnt heard from Capital One like he was expecting to. He also questioned 
whether Capital One would consider waiving the interest and charges applied to his account 
and asked if Capital One could speak to his mother, Mrs K, to discuss a way forward.
Capital One spoke to Mrs K on 1 March 2022 but was unable to agree any payment plan as 
it said it did not have authority to speak with her about Mr Ks account, it said it would need 
written or verbal authority from Mr K. On 7 March 2022, after confirming it had authority to 
speak with Mrs K, Capital One called her and a repayment plan of £30 per month was 
ultimately agreed for Mr Ks account, but by this stage the account had already defaulted on 
2 March 2022.
Looking at this sequence of events, I can see that once the default notice was received Mr K 
and Mrs K were making efforts to try and resolve the arrears on this account. Generally, I 
consider that Capital One did also make reasonable efforts to discuss things with Mr K, they 
tried various methods of contacting him, and when he got in touch they were quick to 
suspend interest and charges to stop his account from deteriorating further. I think the only 
issue here was that Capital One could, perhaps, have made more effort to discuss things in 
detail with Mrs K, as Mr K had requested, before defaulting the account. It seems likely that, 
had it done so, a repayment plan would have been agreed at an earlier stage. So with this in 
mind, I consider it is fair that, on reflection, Capital One agreed to remove the default once 
the arrears were repaid.
The issue then is the protracted negotiations around how the arrears had been calculated, 
and the additional stress Mrs K says this has caused. 
On 5 August 2022 Capital One made the offer to remove the default if arrears of £48.56 
were paid. On 7 August 2022 Mrs K asked for some clarification of the outstanding arrears. Capital One provided us with information about how the arrears had been calculated on 11 
August 2022. This information was not clear, so our Investigator asked Capital One to call 
Mrs K to discuss the account to try and resolve her concerns about how the arrears were 
calculated, Capital One instead asked that Mrs K call them and provided a contact number.
When Mrs K spoke with Capital One, and paid the arrears that had been requested, she still 
felt that she had not been given a clear explanation of what had happened, and remained 
unhappy that fees and charges had been applied to Mr Ks account. She felt that Capital 
One were being extremely difficult to deal with and wanted to be compensated for the poor 
service shed been provided and how Mr Ks complaint has been handled. Unfortunately, 
Capital One said that by the time Mrs K had paid the originally requested amount, further 
arrears had accrued due to the time that had passed, so it needed her to pay a further 
amount to clear these if the default was to be removed.
Ultimately, Mrs K repaid the full balance of the account. And Capital One has now sent her 
statements and written confirmation that the default has been removed from Mr Ks credit 
file.
Looking at what has happened here, I agree that the way Capital One has tried to explain 
the arrears has been confusing. And I understand why Mrs K wanted some clarification of 
what she was going to be paying. But Im also satisfied that, since March 2022, no further 
charges or interest have been added to Mr Ks account. So the only issue at stake here was 
how much of the existing debt needed to be repaid in order to have the default removed. 
And while the reasoning behind how it was calculating the arrears may not have been clear, 
Capital One was clear about how much Mrs K needed to pay, and it explained that the 
arrears could change over time. And it then took steps to try and explain how it had 
calculated those arrears to Mrs K, including sending statements so she could see what had 
happened with the account.
I also must bear in mind that this is Mr Ks complaint and that Mrs K is representing him. So 
even if I were to make a recommendation for compensation for distress or inconvenience 
caused by unclear communication about the arrears, that would have to reflect distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr K. It appears though that it is largely Mrs K who has been 
dealing with this issue.
So with all this in mind, Im satisfied that Capital One has taken appropriate steps to resolve 
this complaint, and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman