DRN-3216137
The complaint
Mr A complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly refused a theft claim he made on his 
motorhome insurance policy.
Mr A has been represented during this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mr A.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr A decided to sell his motorhome. He listed it for sale on a website. He was 
contacted by a motorhome dealership who proposed selling it for him. Ive referred to the 
dealership as B. 
Mr A says he was offered two options for the sale by B. Those were a Broker Sales Service 
with a guaranteed return of £26,500 or a Trade Valuation option with a value of £23,500. He 
chose the former. An employee of B (Ive referred as E) came to Mr As home to complete 
the agreement. Mr A signed a broker sales agreement with B for it to sell his motorhome. 
He handed over the vehicle, keys and relevant documentation to E. 
In May 2018, B sold the motorhome. But it didnt provide Mr A with any of the proceeds. In 
July 2018 the dealership went into liquidation. A number of other motorhome owners had a 
similar experience with B. A director of B (Ive referred to her as D) is now the subject of a 
police investigation and criminal prosecution. She seems to have been the owner of the 
dealership, B.
 
Mr A claimed for the theft of the motorhome on his AXA motorhome insurance policy. AXA 
initially relied on a theft by deception exclusion to turn down the claim. After Mr A 
complained, AXA gave additional reasons for declining the claim. It said the motorhome 
hadnt been stolen. Instead the proceeds of the sale had been stolen and those werent 
covered by the policy. AXA also claimed Mr As policy had lapsed.
Mr A feels AXAs unfairly refused his claim. It transpired that the motorhome was sold to a 
trade buyer for £23,500  lower than the guaranteed return price. He says selling for that 
price and to that type of buyer was done without his consent. It was contrary to the specific 
instructions he had given by signing the broker sales agreement. He says there was 
therefore a theft by appropriation of the motorhome. Mr A also feels it isnt fair for AXA to 
rely on the deception exclusion for his claim.  
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He would like AXA 
to settle his claim in full.
In July 2020 one of our investigators considered Mr As complaint. But he didnt agree AXA 
had unfairly refused the claim. He felt AXAs position that the motorhome hadnt been stolen 
was reasonable. He also said it would be fair for it to rely on the deception exclusion to 
refuse the claim. Mr A didnt accept that assessment. So the complaint was passed to me to 
make a decision.
In August 2020 D was disqualified from directing a company for eight years. This resulted 
from unfit conduct regarding the treatment of Bs customers. 
In November 2020, in response to a request from Mr As representative, the Prosecutor 
Fiscals Office provided a letter stating criminal proceedings had been raised against D. It 
also says
 On the evidence before me, I can confirm that there is sufficient evidence in 
law to libel a charge of theft for each complainer, including theft of the vehicle 
themselves. (The Crown may ultimately choose to prosecute her for a more 
serious offence. However even if this occurs, the option for the jury to convict 
her of simple theft will remain). 
AXA was shown the letter, but it didnt change its position.  
In March 2021 I issued a first provisional decision. 
In summary I said theres no definition of stolen or theft in the policy terms. But having 
considered everything provided I thought it arguable, in both legal and everyday terms, that 
there was a theft of the motorhome itself. I added the Scottish prosecution service seemed 
to think there was a case for theft. So I said a fair and reasonable outcome would be AXA to 
consider events as the motorhome itself being stolen.
I explained why I felt it was unfair for AXA to rely on the following exclusion to refuse Mr As 
claim: 
You are not covered for the following: Loss of your motorhome by deception of 
someone who claims to be a buyer or agent.
I said the second part, following deception, narrowed its scope. I felt there was an 
intention to require deception to be committed by someone claiming or pretending to be 
something they arent  otherwise claims to be wouldnt have been used. Mr A has said 
there wasnt any claiming with B. Instead it was a long-established dealer with a history of 
acting as a sales agent for its customers. 
I felt Mr A made a reasonable point. It seemed the theft was by an agent  not someone who 
claimed to be one. I said, for that reason, even if there were deception involved, I wouldnt 
think it fair for AXA to rely on the exclusion.  
I said for those reasons I intended to require AXA to reconsider Mr As claim on the basis 
that it was reasonable to consider his motorhome as stolen, without reference to the 
deception exclusion and in line with the remaining policy terms.
Mr A was happy with my provisional decision. AXA didnt accept my findings. It provided 
arguments and new information in response. 
After considering further information provided by AXA and Mr A, I changed my position on 
the complaint. I issued a second provisional decision setting out why I now felt it fair and 
reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion, for theft by deception, to refuse Mr As claim. 
Ive included my findings from that second provisional decision here:  
Ive first considered the issue of theft. Im not deciding if there was theft, instead Im 
considering if AXA has acted fairly by saying there wasnt. AXA said my understanding that D is being prosecuted in relation to theft of 
motorhomes is incorrect. To illustrate its point it provided two local newspaper 
articles that report police investigating D for fraud  rather than theft. Both articles are 
dated August 2018.  
Ive considered AXAs point, but I find the Procurator Fiscal Offices letter of 
November 2020 more persuasive than the older news articles. The letter follows the 
police investigation. Its from the Scottish prosecution service explaining what action 
its taken regarding D. Essentially it says its raised criminal proceedings against her 
and explains there is enough evidence to lay a charge of theft  including for theft of 
the motorhomes. 
AXAs also provided a press release reporting the disqualification of D as a director. I 
hadnt been shown this prior to issuing my first provisional decision. Having seen it, I 
requested a copy of the full Disqualification Undertaking from the Insolvency 
Service. In the latter document D states:
 Between 1 January 2018 and 18 May 2018, a further 21 brokerage 
agreements were entered into by me at a time when I knew or ought to 
have known that B was insolvent and unable to pay the agreed return 
price. 
D also admits she entered into those sale agreements at a time when the monies 
received from them were used to fund historic liabilities. Mr As broker agreement 
was signed in April 2018. It seems likely to have been one of those D refers to above. 
AXA said, considering this information, its likely that when B entered into the 
agreement it had the intention to deceive and retain any proceeds of the sale of the 
motorhome. Prior to this latest information the intentions of B, or D, prior to sale of 
the motorhome were unclear. But it now seems likely to me that at the time of 
entering into the agreement B, as a firm under the direction of D, did enter into the 
agreement with no intention to pay Mr A the agreed return price.  
Mr As disagreed that B had no intention of paying him the agreed amount from the 
outset. He explains that the initial communication with B and signing of the sales 
agreement involved E  who isnt implicated in any wrongdoing  rather than D who 
is being prosecuted. Mr A says a theft took place at a later point when D decided to 
sell the motorhome contrary to his instructions in the sales agreement. 
Ive considered his point, but for reasons further set out in consideration of deception 
below, it seems more likely to me that D was acting dishonestly from the outset. Ive 
considered AXAs point that it was really the funds from the sale that were stolen. But 
I think in this case, for the reasons given, including that B never intended to pay Mr A 
what was agreed and the intended prosecution of D, I think that in regard to an 
everyday understanding of the concept, most people would consider that the 
motorhome had been stolen. Therefore I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
AXA to consider the claim as though a theft has occurred.
Deception
However, having considered the Disqualification Undertaking document I now think 
its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the following exclusion to decline Mr As 
claim:What is not covered. You are not covered for the following: Loss of 
your motorhome by deception of someone who claims to be a buyer or 
an agent.
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr A, but Ill explain why. 
Deception isnt defined in the policy. Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
to apply its ordinary meaning. An everyday meaning or understanding of the term is 
to deceive - to make someone believe something that isnt true. 
If there was a theft of the motorhome as B, under its director and owner D, never 
intended to pay Mr A the agreed return amount, or anything at all, then it seems there 
was deception involved. As set out above D seems to have, at the time of taking 
Mr As motorhome, already been using funds from similar sales to fund historic debts. 
And D knew or ought to have known the agreed return for the sale would not be paid 
to Mr A. 
So it would seem Mr A was induced to enter into the sales agreement by being made 
to believe that he would be paid an agreed amount for the sale of his motorhome, 
when it was known by D that he wouldnt. 
Mr A doesnt agree there was any deception. He says the theft took place at the 
later point, so there was no earlier deception involved. Instead the theft or loss of 
the motorhome was when D decided to sell the vehicle contrary to his instructions - 
for less that the agreed return price. 
I accept, as Mr A points out, that D wasnt involved in the initial negotiation with Mr A 
- the signing of the sales agreement, collection of the motorhome and so on  that 
was Es role. There isnt anything to make me think E himself wasnt acting in good 
faith. Mr As point is that as D wasnt involved in those early interactions, they didnt 
involve any deception. But it seems likely to me that E was ultimately fulfilling his role 
and acting under instruction of D, as his superior, director and the owner of B, to 
make a commitment to Mr A that D knew wouldnt be fulfilled. So Es involvement 
doesnt persuade me there wasnt deception involved in the loss.
Mr A says there are examples where customers, of B, were paid something towards 
the agreed return price. He says this shows there wasnt a blanket policy to not pay 
anything to all its customers  so there wasnt any deception when signing the sales 
agreements. However, Im not persuaded that means D (or B) didnt deceive Mr A. It 
still seems most likely to me, based on the above, it was known from the outset that 
Mr A wouldnt be receiving the agreed return amount.  
Mr As highlighted that The Procurator Fiscals Office letter explains 
on the evidence before me, I can confirm that at the point the vehicles 
were in the possession of D (whether they were handed personally to 
her or via a third party), there is no evidence of deception. 
While I dont have access to the evidence available to the Procurator Fiscals Office, 
Im more persuaded by the evidence I have seen  and that makes me think its 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that  the loss of the motorhome involved Mr A being 
deceived, in that he was made to believe something that wasnt true.    
For the exclusion to apply theres a requirement for the deception to be  of someone who claims to be a buyer or an agent. 
In my first provisional decision I said I felt it was reasonable to say, in the 
circumstances, that B wasnt claiming to be an agent. Instead I felt it was a long-
established dealer with a history of acting as a sales agent for its customers. 
However, AXA said the Insolvency Service information shows B wasnt acting as a 
genuine agent. Instead it was claiming or pretending to be an agent that would 
advertise and sell the motorhome in accordance with the owners instructions  but 
with the real intention of retaining any proceeds. When considering the latest 
information about Ds disqualification I now feel its fair and reasonable for AXA to 
rely on this.  
Mr A thinks the word someone, in the exclusion, that precedes who claims to be 
an agent. doesnt apply in the circumstances. He feels the use of someone 
means the exclusion is intended to apply to an unknown person rather than a 
company, like B. To support his position Mr As provided a dictionary definition of 
someone -  
an unknown or unspecified person; a single person when you do not know who they 
are. 
Ive considered that dictionary definition along with others. Whilst they do refer to an 
individual or person a body, including a private limited company like B, is considered 
a legal person. And in everyday usage someone isnt necessarily limited to 
individual people. Its use can sometimes encompass organisations and bodies like 
limited companies. Its also worth considering that company actions are generally 
performed by individual people. 
It might be possible through a literal reading, using narrow dictionary definitions, to 
say the exclusion may not strictly apply to the circumstances here. However, I think 
this is likely to be a type of loss AXA wished to avoid liability for through the 
exclusion. And when read as a whole in context, I feel its clear someone wasnt 
meant to be interpreted as referring to only an individual person. Otherwise the 
exclusion would only be applicable where an individual falsely claimed to be an agent 
 and not where a body, like B, did so. It seems unlikely that was AXAs intention.   
D was Bs most senior employee and its owner. Not only does she seem to have 
been responsible for any deception, but it was under her ownership and direction that 
B can be considered to have been falsely claiming to be an agent. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to say that D was responsible for the deception but 
because she wasnt technically the same body as B, or that because B wasnt by a 
strict dictionary definition a someone, that AXA couldnt rely on the exclusion to 
refuse the claim. 
Ive considered everything Mr A says about this issue  and the consumer rights 
legislation hes quoted that requires when terms could have different meanings for 
the one most favourable to the consumer to prevail. But, for the reasons given above, 
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances, for someone to be considered to 
apply here.  
As Ive said for the exclusion to apply the someone needs to have claimed to be an 
agent. In the exclusion an agent is found alongside a buyer. So it seems the 
exclusion is intended to refer to situations involving the sale or purchases of the 
motorhome. Agent isnt defined by the policy. Dictionary definitions of agent in this 
context include
 one authorised or delegated to transact business for another, a person who acts on behalf of another person or group 
and 
person who acts on behalf of another. 
These are broadly what Id consider to be an everyday or common meaning of the 
term. 
B certainly was an agent at some point as it was authorised to act on behalf of its 
customers to sell their motorhomes for them. Thats supported by the reviews 
provided by satisfied previous customers  and by how long it was in business for.
But considering the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think B could still fairly be 
described as an agent when dealing with Mr A. Instead, I think its fair and 
reasonable for AXA to say it was by that point someone claiming to be an 
agent.  
About nine months before entering into Mr As sales agreement B had been served 
with an insolvency winding up petition. So it was already in financial difficulty months 
before its involvement with him. D says from at least May 2017 she had failed to act 
in the best interests of customers by continuing to enter into brokerage sales 
agreements where the guaranteed return for Bs customers wasnt made. 
Ds admitted, at the point B made the agreement with Mr A, funds from sales, under 
broker agreements, were being used to repay historic debts  rather than to pay 
those selling their motorhomes. And shes said, for the same period, she knew or 
ought to have known the agreed returns wouldnt be paid to customers. 
I accept B had a long history of acting as an agent. I dont need to make a finding on 
at which exact point it stopped being fairly considered a genuine agent. But 
considering the circumstances as set out above, I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that B was an agent at the point Mr A handed over his motorhome. In Mr As case it 
seems most likely to me that B was acting in its own interests, rather than on his 
behalf. 
In summary if Im to conclude that AXA should treat the claim as a theft by B, it 
wouldnt seem logical or fair to, at the same time, say it was also an agent for Mr A. 
Instead it seems reasonable to say it was instead claiming to be an agent. 
I understand this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr A, but I now think its 
fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion for theft by deception to refuse 
the claim. 
AXA didnt respond, but Mr A did. He didnt agree with my new position. He provided 
detailed arguments and supporting information. Below Ive set out and responded where I 
feel it necessary to do so. As this is an informal service, I havent responded to every point 
hes made. But Id like to reassure him and AXA that I have considered everything provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the theft by deception 
exclusion to refuse the claim. Mr A said I shouldnt consider the Disqualification Undertaking when considering his 
complaint. He feels its only intended for specific purposes as set out by the Company 
Director Disqualification Act 1986. 
Ive thought about what Mr As said, including the reasons he gives for the reports contents 
not necessarily providing a fair representation of the circumstances. He says its intended for 
a specific purpose and not for third-party use. He also says D wouldnt have been able to 
dispute its contents and she may have agreed to it under duress. 
However, I still think its reasonable to take the Disqualification Undertaking into account 
when considering the circumstances of this complaint. I note what Mr A says, but I still feel it 
provides an insight into Ds intentions and knowledge at the time his sales agreement was 
entered in to. And regarding its availability, the Insolvency Service released the same 
information as a press release. It also provided this service with a copy of the full report. So 
its freely available information and in the public domain.  
Mr A feels there wasnt deception involved, that the evidence doesnt support there having 
been. He provided comments from Bs Insolvency Practitioner (IP). The IP says, from 
memory, she was engaged by D around about four to six weeks before liquidation. That 
would be early to mid-June 2018, so a few months after Mr As sales agreement was signed. 
The IP says prior to her becoming involved D believed B might be able to trade its way 
through the situation. Mr A says this makes it clear D didnt know about Bs financial 
situation. 
I think Mr As point is this would mean D didnt know, at the point of the sales agreement 
being signed, that B wouldnt be paying him the agreed return amount. Mr As also made a 
point about the language in the Disqualification Undertaking. It says D knew or ought to 
have known B was insolvent He says theres nothing to show she did actually know  just 
that she ought to have. Therefore, according to Mr A, D wasnt involved in deception - 
instead she was simply an inept business manager and an opportunistic motorhome thief. 
I note the winding up order Ive referred to in my second provisional decision may not have 
been issued in July 2017, but instead at a much later date (Mr A feels an Insolvency Service 
record of date of issue is wrong). Ive considered Mr As latest comments to decide what 
most likely happened. I note the recollections of the IP but it seems B had been, for months, 
selling motorhomes for less than the agreed return amount  and not passing on proceeds to 
the owners. Having done so, on balance, the evidence available makes me think D probably 
knew from the outset that Mr A wouldnt be paid the agreed return price. So I still feel the 
loss of the motorhome involved Mr A being deceived, in that he was made to believe 
something that wasnt true.    
Mr A provided his thoughts on my consideration of Bs status as an agent. He repeated that 
B was a well-known dealer. I set out my understanding of the term agent in the second 
provisional decision. I said by the time of Mr As involvement its difficult to say it was still 
acting as an agent  as in acting on behalf of another. It seems most likely to me B was 
acting in its interests, rather than of those it was claiming to be an agent for. 
Mr A disputed this. He says D remained a legally, bona-fide agent. He feels theres no 
evidence B was failing to act in the interests of its customers. Unfortunately, I dont agree. By 
the time it was involved with him there seems to have been a pattern of it selling customers 
vehicles for lower than the agreed return rate. Mr As referred to that action, in his case, as 
constituting theft. In addition B had been taking on further vehicles for sale when it was 
already unable to pay its debts to existing customers. As Ive already said I think its most 
likely D knew, when the sales agreement was signed, that Mr A wouldnt receive the agreed return amount. I cant reasonably say that in the circumstances B was an agent rather than 
just claiming to be one. 
My second provisional decision discussed the application of someone in the deception 
exclusion. Mr A quotes part of a dictionary definition - when you do not know who they are. 
He says he did know who B was, having read testimonials and so on. So the exclusion 
shouldnt apply. 
I note the definition provided, but I dont agree with Mr As understanding of it. Instead 
someone is commonly used for an unspecified person  not necessarily in reference to one 
thats unknown to the user personally. To illustrate - a parent may demand of their multiple 
children that someone tidy up.  
When considering someone my second provisional decision referred to consumer rights 
legislation. Mr A says its unreasonable for me to remove its protection. As Ive said Ive 
considered the legislation. But I feel, when taken in the context of the full term, that the 
meaning of someone is clear enough. 
Mr A feels I havent given sufficient weight to comments from the Police and Procurator 
Fiscal in regard to deception. He quotes my second provisional decision: I find the 
Procurator Fiscal Offices letter of November 2020 more persuasive than the older news 
articles. Hes compared that to my later words While I dont have access to the evidence 
available to the Procurator Fiscals Office, Im more persuaded by the evidence I have seen. 
He then goes on to say I also dont have access to the Insolvency Services investigation 
either, yet Im persuaded by its Disqualification Undertaking. 
My comment on being more persuaded by the Procurator Fiscals letter was in reference to 
the specific offence that body was pursuing against D, rather than what historic newspaper 
articles claimed she was being investigated for. I didnt need to see the evidence behind the 
charge to be persuaded of the Procurator Fiscals position. I accept I dont have access to 
the Insolvency Services investigation either. But I havent said its investigation persuaded 
me. Instead Ive referred only to the content of its Disqualification Undertaking for D. 
Mr As referred to opinions given by a helpdesk provided by this service. Any opinion it 
provides is only based on limited information. And ultimately, its for me, as the ombudsman 
for the complaint, to decide having considered all the circumstances.
Mr A provided several previous final decisions issued by this service. They consider the 
fairness of an insurers reliance on a deception exclusion to refuse a motor theft claim. He 
says these are examples where this service felt a strict application of a deception clause 
would lead an unfairly harsh outcome for the policyholder. He feels allowing AXA to do in his 
case would be harsh. 
To support his position Mr A also quoted a policy statement outlining this services approach 
to potentially harsh outcomes in theft by deception cases. In summary it says this service 
draws a distinction between circumstances in which a consumer voluntarily handed over 
possession of a vehicle to the thief and those where a consumer intended to retain control 
over a vehicle. 
Each complaint is considered against its own individual circumstances. And its not for me to 
comment on how the ombudsman came to their decision in the individual cases. But it does 
seem that in general, in Mr As examples, the ombudsman didnt feel the policyholder had 
voluntarily handed over possession to the thief. I cant say that is the case for this 
complaint. Mr A said he researched B before handing over his motorhome. It seemed a genuine 
company.  And hes explained the financial and medical impact of the claim refusal on him 
and his wife. I accept he made enquiries of B. And I understand this matter will have had a 
detrimental impact. However, whilst I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr A, I still 
think its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion for theft by deception to refuse 
his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman