DRN-1565726
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that the transfer Mr O made through Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt 
reach the recipient until the next working day.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O hold a joint account at Bank of Ireland. Mr O wanted to make an additional 
voluntary contribution into his pension for the tax year 2018-2019 to set off against income 
earned at the higher tax rate. To do that, he needed to make sure funds were received by 
his pension provider by close of business on 5 April 2019, as it was the last day of the 
financial year.
Mr O set up an online payment through Bank of Ireland for £10,000, as this was the banks 
daily transaction limit. He also arranged an additional transfer of £2,000 made through his 
employer  this was made through another bank. Both transactions were made on 5 April, 
but only the second payment was received by the pension provider on 5 April  the transfer 
through Bank of Ireland wasnt received until Monday 8 April. This meant the payment 
couldnt be applied for tax year 2018-2019.
Mr O made the transfer through Bank of Ireland around 1pm, and the daily cut-off time was 
4.30pm. The online screen showed information about the cut-off time before and after 
making the transfer. It said that transfers made after the cut-off time will be processed on the 
next working day. So, as Mr O made the transfer before that, he thought the payment would 
go through on time. He says there was nothing to indicate otherwise.
Mr O says he suffered a financial loss as a result of the transfer being received by the 
pension provider late. He says he missed out on a significant tax refund, along with a 
pension uplift. He says this has caused him worry and stress. 
Mr O says he phoned Bank of Ireland after the transfer had gone through, and the staff 
member had to ask a supervisor about the processing times. Hes unhappy that even the 
banks staff arent clear about the process  so he questions how this can be clear to the 
customer. And had he known the payment wouldnt go through the same day, he wouldve 
transferred the entire amount through his employer.
Bank of Ireland says it doesnt participate in the Faster Payments scheme. Instead, it uses 
an agency bank to complete any interbank transfers. Its terms and conditions state that 
online transfers made in the UK will be received by the payees bank on the next working 
day as long as the payment is made before the cut-off time. So, Bank of Ireland says it 
hasnt done anything wrong, as the payment was received by Mr Os pension provider on the 
next working day.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Bank of Ireland had done 
anything wrong, as it had followed its terms and conditions. So, he didnt think there was 
anything it needed to do, to put things right.
Mr O wasnt happy with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. In summary, he said that the banks screen instructions were misleading, there was nothing to prompt the customer that the money paid wouldnt reach 
the payee on the same day, and the bank had a duty to communicate with its customers in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading. Mr O also said that at the very least, 
Bank of Ireland should be told to amend the screen messages.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive looked at the screen shots Mr O has given us. And whilst he says theres nothing 
to indicate the payment wouldnt reach the beneficiary on the same day if the payment was 
made before the cut-off time, theres nothing to say it definitely would.
Mr O also says that a customer in the UK would expect payments to be completed on a 
same day basis. But Bank of Ireland has explained it doesnt participate in the Faster 
Payments scheme  and it doesnt have to. Theres also nothing on the payment screen to 
suggest the payment would be made as a faster payment.
I can see that the payment reached the beneficiary account on the next working day, which 
is in line with Bank of Irelands terms and conditions. I dont think there was any obligation 
for Bank of Ireland to ensure that the payment would reach the beneficiary on the same day.
Ive thought about what Mr O has said about the payment screen being misleading. But as I 
explained above, I don't think the information on the screen guarantees that the payment will 
be received by the beneficiary on the same day. Mr O also hasnt said he sought clarification 
from Bank of Ireland before he made the payment.
Its unfortunate that Mr O wasnt in a position to make the payment before the last day of the 
financial year. But I dont think Bank of Ireland has done anything wrong here, as the 
payment reached the beneficiary within the timescale outlined in its terms and conditions.
I havent considered whether or not Bank of Ireland should amend its payment screen. This 
is because my role is to look at what happened in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. And even if I were to find the bank had made a mistake, I would only look at the 
impact it had on Mr O, and what it should do to put things right for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman