DRN-4274034
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that PrePay Technologies Limited, unfairly took money 
from their account and then closed it. Theyd like the money returned to them.
What happened
S had an account with Tide, with a pre-paid card and e-money account provided by PrePay 
Technologies. As the overall agreement was with Tide, and for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
Tide in this decision. S is represented by the director of the company, Ms T.
In early August 2021 Ms T fell victim to fraud on her personal account. As part of this fraud 
£2,000 was transferred to S account without her knowledge, and then she was tricked in to 
transferring it onwards. Ms Ts bank contacted Tide, who then placed a stop on any 
transactions on S account. In September 2021 Tide wrote to S to say they would be closing 
the account. The remaining funds in the account (£865.79) were sent to Ms Ts bank.
S complained, but Tide didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd carried out 
a review and decided to end the relationship and werent at liberty to divulge any further 
information. They were satisfied with the support provided to S.
Unhappy with this S referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked at 
it and thought Tide had been unfair. They said there was no term in the Tide terms and 
conditions that allowed them to deduct the funds from S account. They were satisfied Ms T 
was the victim of a scam, and the funds in the account were genuinely S. They suggested 
Tide refund the returned funds, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of return. They also suggested Tide pay S £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
S accepted this as an outcome, but Tide disagreed. They said they had received an 
indemnity, so that is why they returned the funds. As they asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this matter is that S account was used to pass fraudulent funds through it. 
But Tide havent grasped or engaged here with the fact that the victim is the director of S. 
Theres no suggestion here that Ms T has taken money from anyone else then passed it on 
through S accounts. It was her own personal funds that were taken. Its clear that Tide 
havent investigated what happened adequately.
Best industry practice at the time would be for a payment firm who has received fraudulent 
funds to contact their consumer, to establish if they had any credible claim to the funds sent. 
In this case even a cursory investigation would have shown that the director of S and the 
victim of the fraud were the same person. Ive seen nothing to suggest Tide asked any 
relevant questions about the funds to S or Ms T, before taking the decision to close the 
account and return the remaining funds. Im satisfied S would have a credible claim to the 
ownership of the funds here.
The Tide terms list the situation in which payments may not be credited to the Tide account 
 or sent back to sender. The only relevant one in this list is when Tide suspect fraudulent 
activity on the TIDE GBP E-Money Account. But in this case, its clear that the sender and 
the Tide account holder were the same individual, albeit in different capacities. The loss to 
fraud is the point where Ms T was tricked in to transferring the money onwards. So, Im not 
persuaded this term applies here.
The terms also state that Tide can take back funds paid in by mistake. But I dont consider 
this applies here, as the funds were paid in deliberately by the fraudster who had access to 
Ms Ts account. 
Tide have argued they received an indemnity from Ms Ts bank asking for the funds to be 
returned. But indemnities dont create specific obligations on financial businesses  they are 
agreements between the parties. Tide would still be under an obligation to treat S fairly and 
reasonably. In this case the facts of the case would make it clear that Ms Ts bank would be 
liable for refunding the unauthorised transactions  and they have done so. Returning the 
funds that remained in S account would provide no benefit to the victim of the fraud, and 
instead just deprive S of funds they held with Tide legitimately.
Ive reviewed the statements for Ms Ts personal account, and Im satisfied the money Tide 
sent back wasnt applied to her personal accounts. So, Im satisfied she cannot just return it 
to S accounts, and that it represents a loss to S. Had Tide carried out a reasonable level of 
investigation into the transactions, I think it more likely than not they would have realised that 
returning the funds was not appropriate. Im satisfied they have treated S unreasonably.
Its reasonable therefore for Tide to return the funds to S. I see it as reasonable to include 
8% simple interest for the time without the funds, to represent the loss of use of these funds 
for this period.
Tide can block and review the accounts of their customers  there is provision for this in the 
terms of the account. And they can also close accounts so long as they give the required 
notice. Theyre not under any specific obligation to disclose the details for any review or 
closure and have declined to do so here. In S case the account was restricted and then 
closed without any further transactions being allowed  so in effect an immediate closure. 
There are only limited circumstances that the terms allow for this, and Im not persuaded any 
of these apply in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant say for certain that if Tide had carried out a reasonable level of investigation in to how 
the disputed transactions ended up going through S account, that they would have made a 
different decision in terms of the closure. But what I can say is that Ive seen nothing to 
justify the immediate closure of the account. So, again Im satisfied theyve unduly 
inconvenienced S in deciding to close the account without further notice. As such I think its 
right that Tide compensate S. Having considered everything Im satisfied that £150 is a 
reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that PrePay Technologies Limited must:
Refund S the £865.79 that was in the account when it was blocked
Add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from the date of the block to the date the funds are returned
Pay S £150 for the inconvenience and disruption caused by closing the account 
without notice
If PrePay Technoligies Limited considers that its required by HMRC to deduct tax on the 
interest award above, they should provide S with a certificate showing how much is 
deducted should S ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman