DRN-3993717
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way in which Allianz Insurance Plc is proposing to settle a claim 
for loss of rent.
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a brief summary of the events that led to this complaint. It 
doesnt therefore include all of the detail or list each event that happened.
In March 2018, there was an escape of water in one of Mr As rental properties. Allianz 
insured the property but because certain conditions were not met around unoccupancy it 
declined Mr As claim.
Mr A complained to the business that sold the policy, which Ill refer to here as H. He said it 
mis-led him with regard to the cover the policy provided. An ombudsman here issued a 
decision holding H responsible for the claim costs and directed that should Mr A have a 
claim in respect of loss of rent, once repairs were completed, he should direct that back to H 
later.
Im gathering at some point, once H had made payments towards the reinstatement of the 
property it refused to communicate further with Mr A. Mr A then approached Allianz about 
the loss of rent claim, as his policy did include this cover. Allianz agreed as a gesture of 
goodwill to consider a claim as it recognised, had there been a valid escape of water claim, it 
likely would have made a payment for loss of rent.
However, Mr A was unhappy about the amount and type of evidence Allianz was asking or 
to substantiate the loss of rent claim, so he complained about this. A different ombudsman at 
this service agreed it was reasonable for Allianz to consider a claim as a gesture of goodwill 
and he was satisfied it was entitled to ask for information from Mr A to support the claim.
Allianz then went on to make an offer to Mr A of 12 weeks rent, and later increased this to 24 
weeks. It also offered to consider this further should Mr A provide more information.
Mr A remains unhappy as he believes he is entitled to receive loss of rent for a period of 89 
weeks. And he complained about the offer and options that Allianz were setting out.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 13 February 2023. I said that I did not intend to uphold 
the complaint for the following reasons.
I understand Mr A has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything he has said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr A, and by Allianz, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
My first consideration here is that it has already been decided by an ombudsman at this 
service, that H should be responsible for the loss of rent claim associated with the escape of 
water. And not Allianz.
This is important as although Allianz has agreed to consider a claim as a gesture of goodwill, 
which another ombudsman has endorsed, this doesnt mean it becomes responsible for 
everything that happened between the initial escape of water in March 2018 and when Mr A 
re-tenanted the property December 2019. It in effect is making a contribution towards the 
loss Mr A suffered.
I must therefore consider what more likely than not would have happened if the original 
escape of water claim had been valid and Allianz had dealt with the matter from the start.
Allianz has said the repairs likely would have taken around eight weeks. And, it recognises it 
would have taken some time for things like quotes to be obtained, a builder sourced and the 
property re-tenanted.
Having considered what actually happened I dont think this is an unreasonable timescale. 
Mr A received a cheque payment in June 2019 from H for the reinstatement for the property 
which he cashed. With a further payment following in July 2019. Tenants moved into the 
property in December 2019. So, give or take a few days, this is a period of 24 weeks.
Allianz has already made this payment to Mr A and therefore I do not think it needs to do 
anything more here. Its offer to consider more information to maybe increase the loss of rent 
payment, while made with the best intentions, is unnecessary as it is not responsible for the 
whole period of time the property has been without a tenant.
I understand Mr A has again been unhappy about the information he has been asked for 
recently and has raised various allegations about Allianzs case handler. However, I havent 
found any evidence of wrongdoing. As I mentioned above, Ive found the case handler was 
acting with the best of intentions in an attempt to maximise the payment made to Mr A  
recognising there has been a significant period of time where the property has been without 
a tenant.
Having considered everything, I do not intend to uphold Mr As complaint against Allianz. I 
think it has acted reasonably. In the circumstances of what happened and bearing in mind 
that technically it had no responsibility to deal with such a claim, I think the offer it has made 
Mr A is fair and reasonable. And, more likely than not, reflects what would have happened 
had Allianz dealt with the claim from the outset. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
If Mr A wishes to pursue a claim for loss of rent for the remaining period, then as the 
previous ombudsman directed, this claim would need to be made to H. It is more likely than 
not, it will ask for similar evidence to that of Allianz, with regard to establishing loss, so Mr A 
will need to arrange for this to be provided again in full. Should Mr A be unhappy with Hs 
response he would be entitled to complain and again, if need be, refer such a complaint to 
this service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Allianz responded saying it accepted my decision. 
Mr A provided considerable and detailed submissions as to why he did not agree with my 
provisional findings. He reiterated many points he had made previously and supplied many duplicated documents and voice notes. I wont repeat everything in detail here but in 
summary Mr A does not agree that Allianz should not be held responsible for the whole 
period in which loss or rent could be due. He also believes Allianzs case handler acted 
unprofessionally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, I want to assure Mr A I have read, listened to and carefully considered all of the 
points he has made. I wont respond in similar detail, and I will limit my comments to that 
which I think are necessary in order to explain my decision. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, an ombudsman at this service has already made a 
finding that the loss of rent claim is the responsibility of H to consider - due to its failings in 
selling the policy to Mr A putting him in a detrimental position. And another ombudsman at 
the service found that Allianz had made a reasonable offer to consider a claim for loss of 
rent as a gesture of goodwill. 
I also set out in my provisional decision why I think the offer Allianz has made is fair and 
reasonable. It is only in effect, making a contribution towards the loss Mr A has suffered. As 
it would more likely than not have considered a claim for loss of rent, had there been a valid 
claim under the Allianz policy for the escape of water.
I remain of the opinion Allianz has made a reasonable offer, and Mr A will need to approach 
H, for the remaining loss to be considered. As per the directions of the previous 
ombudsman. 
I recognise that matters have become confused along the way where Allianz has become 
involved. As I acknowledged in my previous decision, I found this to have been well 
intentioned. 
Allianzs case handler was entitled to review and question the information he received. I 
understand Mr A didnt appreciate this; however, I dont think any wrongdoing took place 
here.
Having considered everything, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision, I remain of the opinion Allianz has made a fair and reasonable offer to Mr A. And 
therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Again, Ill repeat that if Mr A wishes to pursue a claim for loss of rent for the remaining 
period, then as the previous ombudsman directed, this claim would need to be made to H. 
Should Mr A be unhappy with Hs response he would be entitled to complain and again, if 
need be, refer such a complaint to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Alison GoreOmbudsman