DRN-3657248
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided her with credit she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
Lloyds approved Mrs O application for a credit card with a limit of £1,500 in 2015. They 
subsequently increased the limit on the card to £2,000 in November 2015 and to £2,500 in 
June 2016.
Mrs O says that Lloyds didnt complete adequate affordability checks and that if it had it 
would have noticed the credit wasnt affordable for her. 
Lloyds didnt agree. It said it used information it already knew about Mrs O and information 
provided to them by the credit reference agencies when considering if the credit card was 
affordable. They noted that Mrs O had declared an income of £12,000 per year and had 
explained that she had no rent/housing costs and no dependants. They said they estimated 
Mrs Os daily living costs using data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) but saw no 
reason to suggest the initial credit would be unaffordable.
They also explained that Mrs Os credit card account was in good standing when they 
increased her credit limits and shed not missed payments. They didnt think there were 
signs of financial distress until Mrs O contacted them in late December 2016 to explain her 
immigration status had changed and her and her husband were being asked to leave the 
country. At that point Lloyds stopped charging interest on the debt and subsequently 
defaulted it in early 2017 when payments werent received. 
Our investigator didnt think the decision to provide a credit card was wrong, but she did 
think that Mrs Os account was showing signs of financial distress before the first credit limit 
increase and she therefore suggested Lloyds should refund interest and charges from that 
point. 
Mrs O disagreed and wanted the default removing from her credit file. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
Before approving the credit card, I think Lloyds gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mrs O about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a 
credit check and gathered information from Mrs O to ascertain her income and her housing 
costs. It also used statistical data to establish what Mrs Os expenditure was likely to be and 
considered what it already knew about Mrs O from the current account she held with them. 
Given the relatively modest credit being provided I dont think it had to verify the income   
Mrs O had stated. I think the checks were proportionate but that doesnt automatically mean 
Lloyds made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Mrs O says Lloyds should have noticed her living expenses were incorrect, but I can see 
from the current account statements at the time of application that where Mrs O was paying 
rent out of her account an equivalent amount was being paid in from what appears to be a 
family members account. I think that would have supported Mrs Os statement that her 
rent/housing costs were zero and, whilst the current account didnt have a high balance, it 
also wasnt being used much. Lloyds had been informed by Mrs O that she was married so I 
think they could have fairly assumed that her partner was making contributions towards 
living expenses.
Mrs Os income wasnt being paid into her current account with Lloyds so I dont think it 
would have been apparent that what she had told them about her earnings was wrong.
I think the decision to open the credit card account was therefore fair.
The November 2015 limit increase
The credit limit was increased to £2,000 in November 2015. 
Lloyds has said that due to the time which has passed, it is unable to evidence the internal
checks it completed before it made the decision to increase Mrs Os credit limit. Its said it 
offers a credit limit increase only after assessing the consumers creditworthiness and 
affordability using a combination of external credit reference agency data and internal 
behavioural data.
Lloyds have advised that when it thought about whether to offer Mrs O an increased limit 
there were no missed or late payments on her account.
I dont think Lloyds have been able to demonstrate that they carried out proportionate checks 
because I havent seen the results of the checks they say they conducted. 
I havent been able to rely on a copy of the credit file the business would have seen at the 
time as they havent provided one and neither has Mrs O.
So, Ive thought about the limited information I have got. Ive reviewed the current account 
statements and the credit card history. 
I think there was evidence at this time that Mrs O was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Shed been using her credit card to buy essential goods such as groceries and I dont think 
she would have done that if the cash was already available to her as the credit card 
payments were expensive. There was also evidence from her card transactions that she was 
using the credit to pay another credit card and to make payments to her current account. I 
think that suggests some financial distress.I dont think Lloyds needed to look any further than that, I think the evidence it had available 
to it suggested that increasing Mrs Os indebtedness any further was unwise and 
unaffordable.
There were similar transactions on Mrs Os account before the June 2016 increase and I 
think that limit was therefore also unaffordable for Mrs O and shouldnt have been provided.
The default
Mrs O says Lloyds were unreasonable when defaulting her account and she wants them to 
remove the default from her credit file. 
When the account was defaulted Mrs O owed significantly more than the refund Im asking 
Lloyds to make (below) and even if Lloyds hadnt made those charges I think Mrs O would 
still have been in default.
Lloyds had an obligation to report missed payments and defaults accurately and as 
payments had been missed on the account and the situation hadnt been rectified I dont 
think they were unreasonable to default the account or report that default to the credit 
reference agencies. Im not asking them to remove the default from Mrs Os credit file.
Putting things right
As I dont think Lloyds should have increased Mrs Os credit limit beyond £1,500, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mrs O has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, Lloyds should:
Refund all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have not already been 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,500. 
Add 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right in the manner 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman