DRN-2926565
The complaint
Miss S has complained that SN Marketing Services Ltd, trading as My PPI Refund (MPR) 
pursued a claim on her behalf for mis-sold PPI after shed told them she was pursuing it 
herself  and billed her for doing so.
What happened
Miss S contacted MPR in the summer of 2019.  She says she asked them to investigate 
whether she had had payment protection insurance (PPI) in relation to two credit cards shed 
had with a bank Ill call B.  And Miss S says shed had a loan from B in the past  but shed 
told MPR she didnt need their services in respect of the loan and was dealing with that 
herself.
MPRs initial enquiries revealed Miss S had had PPI in relation to two loans  the one from B 
and one from another institution.  No PPI in relation to the credit cards was identified.  MPR 
spoke to Miss S on the phone and took some basic details.  And they said theyd send her 
questionnaires to complete.
Several months later, MPR were advised that B and the other institution had calculated what 
was due to Miss S.  So MPR wrote to her to request payment of their fees.  They did this 
repeatedly, even after Miss S had told them she hadnt yet received a payment from B or the 
other institution.
Miss S complained to MPR that she was being chased for fees, even though shed told MPR 
shed not received any payments.  And she said that she didnt owe MPR a fee for the claim 
with B, as shed made that herself before contacting them and had told MPR shed done 
that.
MPR investigated her complaint and wrote to Miss S with their findings.  They said Miss S 
had been sent reminders because these were automatically generated by their system once 
theyd been notified an institution had agreed to settle a claim.  They apologised to Miss S 
for this.
But they said that it had been their work which had found the PPI B had taken from Miss S.  
So they were entitled to invoice her for that work.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with MPRs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that MPR didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve the matter.  He said that, although Miss S said shed pursued the claim against B 
herself, shed signed an agreement authorising MPR to act for her.  And he was satisfied 
that MPR had made it clear that, while they couldnt stop correspondence chasing payment 
being sent, theyd told Miss S they wouldnt pursue payment until shed received payment 
herself.
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view that shed instructed MPR to make a claim 
against B.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
The parties agree that Miss S instructed MPR to undertake PPI checks for her.  But theres a 
dispute about which claims they were authorised to pursue.
Ive looked at the letters of engagement and authority provided by MPR.  These show that 
Miss S engaged MPR to check whether she had PPI with several financial institutions.  The 
documents are dated 13 August 2019.  And, because the FCA had imposed a deadline of 29 
August 2019 on PPI claims, MPRs terms and conditions provided that MPR would 
automatically submit a claim if PPI was identified.  
I think the documents make it clear that would happen.  And its clear that MPR would 
charge Miss S a fee of 20% of anything recovered, plus VAT (a total of 24%).
Miss S has said she doesnt remember signing anything, just completing a physical form with 
tick boxes.  This was some time ago, so its understandable she may not remember.
But I asked our investigator to check with MPR how customers signed up for their service.  
MPR confirmed this was an online process, where the customer signs once electronically.  
That signature is then applied to letters of authority for each institution to be checked.
Im satisfied that MPR wouldnt have started claims on Miss Ss behalf without her 
authorisation.  So, while I appreciate her reservations, I think on balance she did provide that 
authorisation electronically.
Miss S complained that shed instructed MPR to make a claim against B in respect of two 
credit cards  whereas MPR pursued a claim in respect of a loan, which Miss S had already 
started herself.
Ive thought carefully about this.  I asked our investigator to get any call recordings from 
MPR.  Only one was available.  Ive listened to this.  Its a call to Miss S to let her know that 
MPR had identified PPI on two loans  one from B and one from another institution.  
Miss S asked in that call about PPI relating to the credit cards shed had with B.  She was 
sure shed had PPI for the cards.  But the adviser she spoke to confirmed that theyd only 
found PPI on Bs loan.  Im satisfied from that call that MPR told Miss S PPI hadnt been 
found for the credit cards.
And that conversation included discussion of the loan from B.  Miss S didnt question why 
MPR was asking her about that loan, or say she was dealing with that directly.  This 
suggests to me that MPR were instructed in that claim too.
But, given Miss Ss assertion that shed already instructed B herself, our investigator asked 
her for any evidence she may have to support that statement.  In response, Miss S has 
provided copies of messages she sent to B about the claim.  
The earliest of these is dated 17 September 2019, about five weeks later than the letters of 
engagement and authority.  So Im not satisfied these evidence Miss S had submitted a 
claim herself before instructing MPR.  And Miss S hasnt responded to the investigators 
requests for her authority allowing us to contact B directly to establish the position.  So weve 
not been able to get information from B to support what Miss S said.On the basis of what we have received, Im not persuaded that MPR was wrong to submit a 
claim to recover PPI in respect of Miss Ss loan from B.  The claim was successful.  So 
theyre entitled to their fee in line with the terms of the agreement.  And I dont think they 
need to do anything more to resolve Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about SN Marketing 
Services Ltd, trading as My PPI Refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman