DRN-2948276
The complaint
Mr T complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) asked him to 
make a minimum payment towards his credit card, for a transaction he says he didnt make.
  
What happened
 Mr T has a credit card account with AmEx.
There was a transaction on Mr Ts account that he didnt recognise, as he hadnt yet made 
any transactions on the account. He reported it to AmEx to dispute it, and they agreed the 
transaction was unauthorised and refunded it to his account. He received a letter confirming 
the refund.
However, between the transaction being made and Mr T reporting it a statement had been 
produced asking for a minimum payment. Because he hadnt authorised any transactions, 
he didnt think he needed to make a payment. He says he contacted AmEx over online chat 
and was told no balance was due. But when the minimum payment wasnt paid by the due 
date, AmEx blocked Mr Ts card. They also recorded a late payment marker on Mr Ts credit 
file.
Mr T says he found this out when he went to make a payment at a local shop, but it didnt go 
through. He contacted AmEx, who told him because the statement had already been 
generated, they couldnt cancel the minimum repayment. They said if Mr T cleared the 
balance, they could issue a refund. They also offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this Mr T raised a complaint. After looking in to it AmEx felt they hadnt done 
anything wrong. They couldnt find any evidence that Mr T was told not to make a payment 
towards the balance and explained that once a statement is generated the payment will be 
due by the due date. But they accepted that Mr T had received repeated calls chasing 
payment, which were unnecessary as the credit had already been applied to the account. 
They also removed the late payment markers from the credit file. They credited Mr Ts AmEx 
account with £50.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened and felt AmEx hadnt treated Mr T fairly. They said 
that when the payment was refunded, theyd have expected AmEx to have reworked the 
account as if it had never happened, and not require a minimum repayment. They said that 
Mr T shouldnt have had to contact AmEx about this, and the late payment marker was 
unnecessary. In recognition of the distress and inconvenience, they suggested AmEx pay 
Mr T £20 compensation in addition to the £50 already credited to his account.
AmEx disagreed, saying that because the statement had already been generated, a 
minimum payment was due as per their terms. They said this couldnt be changed on their 
system. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide. Having reviewed 
the complaint, I wrote to both parties and let them know I intended to increase the 
compensation by £50, to £100 in total. 
AmEx disagreed, saying it wouldve been physically impossible to remove the due payment 
as the paper statement had already been produced. 
Mr T also disagreed saying £100 wouldnt be enough to reflect the embarrassment of his 
card being declined in a local shop where he was well known, for the weeks of contact about 
a debt he didnt owe, and for the impact on his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered both parties further points, but overall, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair 
amount of compensation for whats happened here. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its accepted that the original payment was unauthorised and was refunded on to 
Mr Ts account. This was the first and only payment on the account at the time. The 
regulations that govern payment services, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, say that 
when a payment transaction was not authorised the business must:
(a)refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b)where applicable, restore the debited payment account to the state it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
(section 76)
AmEx have argued that clause (b) wouldnt have been applicable as it wouldnt have been 
possible to remove the due payment from the payment system once the statement had been 
generated. I disagree this is the intention of clause (b). In this case where applicable refers 
to where there is a payment account involved, rather than a single payment contract. Im 
satisfied clause (b) applies in this instance.
The obligation on AmEx then is once they accept the disputed transaction as fraudulent, 
they would need to adjust Mr Ts account as if the payment never took place. This would 
include not asking for a minimum payment when no payment is due. This obligation is 
greater than that of Mr T to make a minimum repayment, as per his credit card terms. And it 
would seem unreasonable to ask for payment, when its accepted no debt is owed. If AmExs 
systems couldnt restore the account to as if the transaction never took place, then this leads 
to an unreasonable outcome for Mr T.
In any case Im satisfied it was unfair for AmEx to expect and ask for a payment from Mr T, 
no matter how theyve chosen to set up their payment systems, when no debt was owed.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this on Mr T. I cant be certain whether Mr T was 
initially told not to make the payment or not. But I dont think this is relevant as I dont believe 
he reasonably should have been asked for payment in the first place.
Mr T has given a detailed outline of the effect on him  and I accept it would be distressing 
for him to suddenly find his card blocked and negative information recorded against him on 
his credit file. Its also accepted Mr T was repeatedly called by AmEx chasing a debt that 
wasnt owed, which would have been frustrating for him. 
Mr T has had to spend time calling AmEx to sort out this problem, when AmEx should have 
been able to resolve the matter after he reported the fraudulent transaction. There should 
have been no need for him to contact AmEx at all. Nor should there have been a need for AmEx to tell him to make a payment he knew wasnt needed. Im persuaded that its right 
that AmEx pay Mr T a degree of compensation to reflect this.
But this is tempered with that fact that Mr T wasnt denied access to his own money, he 
couldnt access the credit offered by AmEx. From when he discovered the matter, to when 
AmEx resolved the issues with his account and credit file was resolved within a month. So, 
while I can see AmEx caused additional stress to Mr T, this wasnt over a prolonged period.
With this in mind, I believe a sum of £100 in total  an additional £50 to what has already 
credited his account  would be a fair way to reflect the impact AmExs actions had on Mr T.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr T £100 in total. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman