DRN-1512740
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society received a high level of 
commission for selling them a PPI policy with their mortgage in March 2003. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W complained about the sale of their PPI policies previously and this service 
dealt with that complaint in 2015  and the complaint wasnt upheld.
In 2019, in light of the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin (1), Mr and Mrs W complained to 
Nationwide Building Society about the commission it received from selling them PPI. When 
Nationwide Building Society rejected their complaint, they referred it to our service
In 2019 our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs W that because their mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage, the rules and guidance about commission didnt apply to them. So 
Nationwide Building Society wouldnt be refunding any of the commission they paid.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that Im not looking at any issues relating to the sale of PPI that was 
dealt with by this Service in 2015. So, my decision will focus solely on the complaint Mr and 
Mrs W made about the level of commission Nationwide Building Society received from the 
sale of the PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws credit agreement (mortgage) commenced in March 2003 when they 
borrowed £60,000. In March 2008, they applied for a 5-year fixed rate mortgage deal 
(5.63%) which took effect from 1 April 2008. And at the same time, their mortgage became 
regulated.
That means the unfair relationship provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s140A of the Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. So 
Nationwide Building Society doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W 
paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
This is because the Plevin judgement and the regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed 
commission and profit share do not apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including 
regulated mortgages. And as Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage became regulated before 6 April 
2008, Nationwide Building Society doesnt need to refund any of the commission that Mr and 
Mrs W paid for the PPI that had with that mortgage. 
(1) Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman