The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has applied charges to her account when 
she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Miss T is represented but for ease anything the representative has said will be referred to as 
Miss T. 
What happened
Miss T says she has been on a low income and in recent years been reliant on benefits. She 
feels the charges for returned direct debits, unauthorised overdraft and standing orders have 
impacted her ability to pay for daily essentials. Miss T has also struggled with ill health, as 
well as caring for her two children who also suffer from serious medical conditions. She 
would like BoS to return the charges with interest.
BoS have said it has applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts. It says it has no record of Miss T contacting it to tell it she was having financial 
difficulties and to ask for assistance. BoS has offered Miss T as a goodwill gesture £100 and 
provided information about how to contact them for assistance and included information 
about organisations and charities that can help with debt management.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt BoS hadnt done anything wrong. He 
said BoS had applied its charges fairly. And as far as he can see Miss T never made the 
bank aware of her financial situation.
Miss T didnt agree. She thought she probably had made the bank aware of her situation but 
accepted there was no evidence of this. But she feels it was obvious from the bank 
statements that she was in financial hardship, so she feels BoS should've been aware and 
offered to waive the charges. Because Miss T didnt agree with our investigator the case has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Miss T, Im not upholding her complaint and Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained in 2009 the Supreme Court ruled that bank charges cannot be 
challenged on the basis they are too high or unfair. However, they can be challenged if they 
were applied incorrectly or outside of the bank's terms and conditions.
DRN-1013616I can see Miss T had an Easycash account until May 2018, and then the account was 
upgraded to a current account. But at the time Miss T appears to have been paying charges 
the account was an Easycash account so Ive considered the terms and conditions relating 
to that account.
The only fees that apply with this type of account is £10 for an unpaid direct debit. Having 
looked at Miss Ts statements for the period in question I cant see that the bank has made 
any mistake with the fees applied to the account.
However, if a customer is experiencing financial difficulties the bank needs to act positively 
and sympathetically to a customer's situation as per the lending code and Banking Conduct 
of Business rules. Miss T thinks she wouldve told the bank about her situation but 
appreciates there is no evidence of it but still feels the bank shouldve known as her account 
tipped into an unauthorised overdraft for months at a time.
Ive looked at Miss Ts statements and although I can see her account did tip into a negative 
balance  and direct debits were returned at times due to there not being enough funds. This 
alone is not enough for a bank to pick up that a consumer maybe in financial difficulty. So I 
cant say that the bank should've done more to assist. I note that when sending statements, 
the bank did provide money management help and a link to a budget planner. And in its final 
response letter the bank provided details of various debt help charities so Miss T can seek 
further help if necessary.
So whilst I do understand that Miss T has been dealing with some difficult circumstances 
over the years, I cant see that BoS has made any errors. BoS applied the charges correctly 
and in-line with its terms and conditions. As far as I can see Miss T didn't tell them she was 
in financial difficulty, so I can't say that they should've done anything differently. As a 
goodwill gesture the bank offered £100. I think this is reasonable so if Miss T now wishes to 
accept it she will need to contact BoS.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman