DRN-4255175
The complaint
Mr V complains about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) handling of his claim under his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V made a claim to esure following the theft of his car. His car was then recovered and 
delivered to a garage to assess. Mr V complained as he felt things were taking too long, he 
wasnt being kept updated and he wasnt given a courtesy car. 
Esure responded and upheld the complaint. They accepted they didnt inform Mr V when 
they appointed their garage to assess the damage to Mr Vs car and also didnt log Mr Vs 
complaint when this was originally made. They also accepted their engineer didnt raise a 
complaint when Mr V raised concerns about a lack of progress. Esure said nothing then 
happened for eight days before their engineer arranged an independent inspection of Mr Vs 
car. The independent inspection didnt then take place until around a month later  which 
esure agreed was outside their service level. They said, at the point of writing the complaint 
response, they still hadnt received the report following the inspection. Esure accepted there 
hadnt been ongoing management of the claim or updates sent to Mr V. Esure said, in 
recognition of their errors and for not providing Mr V with a courtesy car, theyd waived the 
£500 excess payable by Mr V. Mr V responded to say he didnt feel the redress offered was 
reasonable and esure then paid an additional £250 as compensation.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr V. She agreed esure had made errors and thought 
their total offer of £750 was fair. Mr V disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided esures offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr V 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I think its important to make clear my decision only focuses on the complaints addressed by 
esure in their complaint response dated 24 May 2023. I can see there have been further 
developments and concerns raised by Mr V. I understand there has been further delay, and 
Mr V has explained by end of July 2023, no repairs had still been carried out and esure 
hadnt provided any updates. 
Mr V also explains esure have now made a decision to write off his car and he has been 
chased by the company who provided a courtesy car to say theres an outstanding balance 
which hasnt been paid by esure. These additional complaints will need to be raised with 
esure to allow them an opportunity to address these in the first instance before our service is 
able to look into these.    
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr V. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Esure accept they got things wrong by taking too long to deal with the 
claim, not keeping Mr V updated, and the delay in arranging a courtesy car. The only issue I 
have to decide is whether their offer of £750 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that esure should compensate Mr V for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by esure and the impact it has had. 
Esure dont dispute theres been delay in progressing the claim. Mr Vs car was stolen on 24 
March, which Mr V reported to esure the same day. Mr Vs car was recovered the same day 
but was damaged. So, esure set about arranging for Mr Vs car to be assessed. Mr Vs car 
was collected a few days later and delivered to a garage to assess  and I can see Mr V was 
given an assurance his car would be looked at as soon as possible. An estimate is then sent 
to esure in early April. Around mid-April it appears esure are made aware the damage would 
need to be investigated by a specialist and instructions are then sent to another agent. I 
cant see any progress is then made until the agent inspects Mr Vs car on 9 May and, at the 
point esure send their complaint response, theyre still waiting for the agents report. Esure 
then authorise repairs on 26 May. 
Its clear from emails and phone calls between Mr V and esure that Mr V is very upset and 
frustrated about the delay and about not being kept updated  and hes inconvenienced in 
having to chase to find out whats happening. The policy schedule shows Mr Vs car is the 
only car in his household, so I acknowledge why the delay caused significant frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr V. Generally, where a car is being repaired, and subject to the policy 
terms and conditions, an insurer will arrange a courtesy car to try to minimise any impact to 
a customer. But, in this case, it appears there was some confusion around whether the 
garage would be arranging this. In any event, I can see esure did then make arrangements 
for Mr V to receive a courtesy car around nine weeks into the claim  with him receiving one 
around a week later. So, I accept Mr Vs points that this caused significant inconvenience 
and disruption. 
Given the claim circumstances, I can see an excess of £500 is payable by Mr V. So, esures 
offer to waive this acts as compensation of £500. So, the additional payment of £250  which 
Mr V confirms he has received  brings the total compensation to £750. Taking this all into 
account, I agree there has been considerable upset and frustration caused to Mr V together 
with significant inconvenience by not receiving a courtesy car for around 10 weeks. Its clear 
things werent being progressed as quickly as they shouldve been and, while this caused 
upset and frustration, the lack of updates compounded the impact on Mr V. So, taking into 
consideration the impact on Mr V and the duration of this, I think esures offer of £750 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.   
I note Mr V complains esure sent him £200 for his personal belongings despite him valuing 
these at £1,000. I can see Mr Vs policy schedule sets out the limits on what esure will pay 
for different types of claims. The policy limit for personal belongings is £200, so I cant say 
esure have acted unfairly here as theyve paid the maximum allowed under the policy.  
I understand Mr V will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes frustrated at the 
length of time it took for esure to progress his claim. I wish to reassure Mr V Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
Esure Insurance Limited have already made an offer of £750 compensation to settle the 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Esure 
Insurance Limited to take any further steps.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman