DRN-3181253
The complaint
Mr J complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined his claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr J says water was found to be dripping through the ceiling in an 
upstairs bedroom of his house. He says this was during a period of bad weather. He went 
into the loft space to investigate further and found water was entering just under a roof 
valley. Mr J says he made sure the water was contained using a bucket. He then found 
wallpaper was bulging in his bedroom and cut a section away to reveal water had 
penetrated here as well. This was also found to be the case on the wall below on the ground 
floor. 
Mr J says he had to empty the bucket regularly as the bad weather persisted. The next 
morning, he used binoculars to inspect the roof and found no broken tiles. But he did see 
part of a tv aerial lying in the valley where he had noticed the leak in the loft space. He 
thought it must have blown down and spiked the lead resulting in water getting through. Mr 
J contacted RSA to make a claim under his policy.
RSA arranged for the damage to be inspected. This took place two days later. In the 
meantime, Mr J made some temporary repairs to the part of the roof that was leaking. 
RSAs surveyor found no evidence of damage that could be attributed to a one-off storm 
event. He found cracking in the lead, a breakdown of mortar cement to the effected roof 
valley and some deterioration in the pointing to the chimney brick work. He thought the 
cause of the leak was the natural breakdown of these materials over time.  
RSA contacted Mr J to decline his claim. It says storm force winds were recorded around the 
time of the loss claim. But it thought the cause of the damage, as highlighted in its 
inspection, was the result of wear and tear, and this had occurred gradually over time. It 
says its surveyor confirmed he didnt think the aerial had caused the damage as there was 
evidence of multiple cracks in the leadwork.    
Mr J disagreed with this outcome. He inspected the roof himself having erected scaffolding 
and provided further arguments to RSA to support his claim. But the company maintained its 
decline decision. Because of this Mr J referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. She acknowledged RSA accepted 
storm conditions were experienced around the time of the loss. But based on the available 
evidence, which includes the report of long-standing mould on the internal walls, cracked 
leadwork, dislodged areas of cement and missing pointing, she thought RSAs stance was 
persuasive that the damage wasnt consistent with that caused by a storm. 
Our investigator also considered whether a claim should be accepted under Mr Js 
accidental damage cover. She didnt think it should because the evidence suggested the 
damage resulted from a gradual cause as opposed to a sudden event. She says Mr Js 
policy doesnt provide cover where the cause is attributed to wear and tear or something that 
happens gradually.
Mr J didnt agree with this outcome. He submitted further arguments to our investigator, but 
this didnt alter her view. Mr J has since asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions is no then an insurer can generally, reasonably 
decline a claim.
The policy terms state that Storm is covered as an insured event. I cant see that it defines 
what a storm is, but I note RSA hasnt disputed that storm conditions occurred around the 
time of the claim. In its final response to Mr Js complaint it refers to wind speeds meeting 
storm conditions. As this is not in dispute, I can accept storm conditions were experienced 
and move onto consider the next question.
The inspection report supplied by RSA says:
there is no physical evidence of disturbance or damage present that can be attributed to a 
one off storm event. There are a number of green fatigue cracks in the lead. The lead is too 
long and as a result is more prone to suffering from fatigue cracks. There is a breakdown of 
mortar cement to the valley and some of the pointing to the brick work around the chimney is 
suffering from deterioration. These are all a natural breakdown of materials over a period of 
time and not consistent with storm damage.
And:
Bedroom 1: When the surveyor inspected the wall he observed that the damage was 
caused by there is excessive mould indicating this damage is not from a one off storm event. 
Bedroom 2: When the surveyor inspected the ceiling he observed that the damage was 
caused by the plasterboard is heavily deteriorated as a result of water ingress over a long 
period of time.
Study: When the surveyor inspected the wall he observed that the damage was caused by 
the wall paper has been cut and stripped and has become hard and crispy as a result of 
ingress over a period of time. There is evidence repairs to cracks in the wall. The policy terms say:
No cover is provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually.
Based on the surveyors view the damage caused by water ingress had been ongoing for 
some time. The damage described to the roof, isnt something that I would reasonably 
consider to be consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. The cracked lead work, 
and other deterioration highlighted, is more consistent with a cause of wear and tear over 
time. Its likely the bad weather has further highlighted the problem, but it hasnt reasonably 
been shown to be the underlying cause.
RSAs surveyor says the internal damage had developed over some time. He says this is 
evidenced by the presence of excessive mould as well as the condition of the plasterboard 
and wallpaper.
I have looked at the photos the surveyor took two days after Mr J made his claim. I can see 
areas where mould has developed behind the wallpaper and what appears to be 
longstanding damage to areas of plasterboard and the wallpaper. Based on this I think 
RSAs view is persuasive that the damage observed is likely to be the result of the ongoing 
cause described by its surveyor, as opposed to a one-off event due to a storm. 
Mr J wrote to RSA at the end of December 2020. In his letter he talks about an inspection he 
performed of his roof. He says:
water ingress must have happened a while ago, but was held back from being noticed 
inside the house because the rainwater was passing into the Pumice-Crete type blocks of 
the inner Annex wall (on the west side) and also into the glass-wool cavity wall insulation in 
this area.   
And:
I now agree that the damage by the antennae tang spiking the underfelt had happened 
sometime in the past, and that the hole has increased by the passage of water over time, to 
allow more water into these areas and up to this current storm.  
From this Mr J appears to acknowledge a longstanding problem with water ingress. I note 
his view that a falling aerial had punctured the roof felt, although he considers this happened 
sometime in the past.  
I have thought about Mr Js view that the falling section of aerial penetrated through an 
existing stress fracture in the leadwork, and through the roof felt, and that this is the 
underlying cause of the damage. 
RSAs surveyor didnt think this was the underlying cause of the water ingress and damage 
because of the multiple cracks in the leadwork, as well as the other signs pointing to a 
gradual cause. I acknowledge Mr Js view but having considered all the available evidence I 
dont think its reasonably been shown that the aerial penetrated through an existing crack in 
the leadwork and then through the roofing felt. Or that this was the underlying cause of the 
water damage. 
 
Mr Js policy includes accidental damage cover. I have given thought to whether the damage 
reported should be covered under this insured event.
The policy doesnt define accidental damage, but this is generally accepted to mean something that happens suddenly, is unforeseen and usually the result of a one-off event. 
Based on the evidence I have seen, the damage reported is most likely shown to be the 
result of an ongoing cause, due to the cracked leadwork and other deterioration reported 
with the roof. The same term applies to accidental damage as well as to the rest of the 
policy. As above this excludes, wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens 
gradually.
I acknowledge that Mr J doesnt agree with RSAs surveyors findings and doesnt think he 
conducted a detailed inspection. I have considered all of his comments and evidence, but I 
find RSAs view most persuasive that the damage resulted from a gradual cause due to wear 
and tear over time.  
Mr J raised concerns that RSAs surveyor had taken photos inside and outside his home and 
published this information on its website. He believes this is a breach of the data protection 
act. 
We asked RSA about the photos Mr J says were published. We provided him with its 
response for him to comment on. RSA says the photos of Mr Js home are not published on 
its website and are not available for the general public to view. It says the images are taken 
to show the correct address was inspected and this information is contained on an internal 
portal. 
In response Mr J says he gave no consent for RSA to publish photos of his home. 
Having considered this point, I dont think Mr J has shown photos of his home have been 
published on a website. Photos were taken to support the surveyors inspection findings, but 
I havent seen evidence they were published in the public domain. If Mr J believes RSA has 
breached the data protection act in respect to his claim, he can contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO are the experts in this area. But from what I have 
seen, RSA hasnt done anything wrong here. 
In summary, although I sympathise with Mr Js position and the need to carry out repairs to 
his home, I think RSA treated him fairly when it relied on the terms of its policy and declined 
his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman