DRN-3148324
The complaint
Mr B complains about how MCE Insurance Company Limited calculated a refund under his 
motor insurance policy when he cancelled it  and about the service received during this 
process. 
What happened
On 10 September 2020 Mr B took out a policy with MCE which was due to expire on 
9 September 2021  paying for it upfront. On 5 May 2021, Mr B first asked about cancelling 
his policy, and then did so on 8 May 2021.
At this time, Mr B was told no refund would be due to him, which he said was contrary to the 
policy terms as hed calculated he was due £24.92. He spent time on the phone speaking to 
MCE agents to try and get this refund, and when he was told they couldnt, he asked for the 
matter to be escalated.
MCE said a fee of £30 would be applied and quoted policy terms which say a minimum 
administration fee of £45 would also be applied. MCE said after Mr B spoke to their 
Customer Experience Team, they agreed to remove the £30 fee as the Terms and 
Conditions do not indicate this is included with the paid in full cancellation, as opposed to 
within the cooling off period or the payment plan cancellation.. So, they upheld Mr Bs 
complaint, and said the £24.92 hed calculated would be paid to him.
Mr B contacted us, because he didnt think hed been treated fairly by MCE. He had 
concerns over the documents provided by MCE as the cancellation terms were in three 
separate places - the key facts, policy booklet and terms of business  but these conflicted. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and found Mr B hadnt been treated fairly. 
Overall, although MCE had since refunded Mr B what was owed, our Investigator felt 
compensation was fair for what Mr B had to go through to get the refund. He felt £100 was 
appropriate compensation for the aggravation Mr B was put to.
Mr B was happy with this and accepted it. MCE didnt saying they understood by giving Mr B 
incorrect information it may have caused him frustration, but they didnt think this impacted 
him enough to award £100 compensation. They said when a customer raises a complaint, 
they have the opportunity to investigate matters to ensure they are treated fairly. MCE 
agreed the term wasnt clear, so the £30 cancellation was removed. As MCE didnt agree, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MCE have accepted the term wasnt clear, I dont need to decide this. Instead, I need to 
think about the impact on Mr B, and whether I agree compensation is owed. Having 
considered that, I do think compensation is due. Ill explain why.
Anyone taking out insurance has an expectation that when doing so, terms theyre subject to 
will be clear. Here, Mr B calculated he was due a £24.92 refund after paying for his policy in 
full when taking it out. Theres no mention of a £30 fee.
The policy terms say:
Unless a total loss claim has occurred, you will pay for:
A percentage of the annual premium calculated as per the below table
An (sic) minimum administration fee of £45
We will then refund any amount we owe you.
The table referred to says for policies had for up to eight months, the refund is 12.5% of the 
premium originally paid, for policies had over eight months, then theres no refund. Mr Bs 
policy started on 10 September, and he was cancelling it on 8 May, which was within eight 
months.
Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with MCE about this. In the call on 5 May 2021 Mr B only 
asked about the process for cancelling  and MCEs agent mentioned about a £30 fee.
In the second call on 8 May 2021 Mr B asked to cancel the policy, and said he wanted to 
contest the £30 fee. He was initially told during the call that the reason he wasnt due a 
refund is because hed had the policy for more than eight months. He said hed had the 
policy for less than eight months, so he felt he was due a refund  which he calculated at 
£24.92
He then discussed this with a manager on the phone, who agreed hed had the policy for 
less than eight months  but they said because the eight months happened in a few days, 
theyd treat him as having had cover for eight months. So, he wouldnt be due a refund for 
that reason. The manager also explained the £30 did apply, but during the conversation 
when Mr B challenged why, the manager only explained its the insurer charge, but didnt 
provide any explanation about why it wasnt mentioned in the full policy booklet.
The call lasted well over an hour  as MCEs manager couldnt tell Mr B hed be able to 
refund him in line with the policy terms. MCEs manager refers to the system saying Mr B is 
due no refund, so I assume theres been an issue regarding how things have been set up on 
their system  although no explanation has been given by MCE for why this has happened.
Had things been done properly, Mr B would have simply received the refund he was due  
rather than having to spend a long time reviewing the policy documents and speaking to 
MCE. 
So, I do think thats caused him inconvenience as a result of MCEs errors. Our Investigator 
recommended £100, and Im satisfied thats a fair reflection of the impact on Mr B of MCEs 
failings.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order MCE Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman