DRN-3134305
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) mishandled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I include engineers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a large SUV first registered in 2011. Mr B acquired it 
late 2019 or early 2020. He says the cash price was £13,400.00 of which he paid about 
£7,000.00 and entered into a finance agreement for the balance.
Mr B had his vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy with AXA. 
Unfortunately, Mr Bs vehicle was damaged in a collision in November 2020. Mr B says he 
had repaid about £2,000.00 under the finance agreement.
Mr B made a claim to AXA. AXA said the vehicle was beyond economic repair  a total loss. 
AXA paid its pre-accident valuation of the vehicle (£10,400.00) less the policy excess. AXA 
paid about £6,000.00 to the finance company and about £4,00.00 to Mr B.
In July 2021, Mr B complained that hed asked for his damaged vehicle back, but AXA had 
refused and sold the damaged vehicle to a salvage agent.
In September 2020, AXA wrote a final response and Mr B brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
AXA ought to have allowed Mr B salvage rights to his vehicle and hed encountered a loss of 
opportunity. However, the investigator said he couldnt ascertain with any degree of certainty 
a financial loss encountered. The investigator recommended that AXA should pay Mr B 
£200.00 for the loss of opportunity hed experienced.
AXA agreed to pay £200.00. But it disagreed with the investigators opinion. It says, in 
summary, that:
Its policy terms say the written-off vehicle would become its property.
It had concerns over safety.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary that:
He would never have agreed to settlement if he knew he was lied to.
The entire process was underhanded and dishonest.
£200.00 is nowhere near good enough compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We deal with complaints against regulated financial firms. We have received evidence from 
AXA but not directly from its engineer or the salvage agent.
Most car finance agreements provide that the car remains the property of the finance 
company until payment of the sums due under the agreement.
AXAs policy terms included the following:
Salvage (if your car is written off)
We will settle your claim by replacing your car or by paying the market value (or 
purchase price of your car whichever is the lower) of your car before it was damaged. 
As part of settling your claim, your car will become our property and you must send 
us the vehicle licensing document.
Mr B has said that the front airbags deployed in the accident. So I would say it was a 
significant collision.
AXA (through its engineer) did a total loss report. It noted an odometer reading of over 
100,000 miles. It gave a pre-accident valuation of £10,400.00. It estimated the cost of repairs 
at nearly £9,000.00. It said the vehicle was a total loss in Category N. So I find that the 
damage was non-structural. The total loss report didnt suggest a salvage value for the 
damaged vehicle. I wouldnt expect it do so .
Mr B asked AXA if he could keep the damaged car. It was only after AXA declined that he 
agreed the pre-accident value. 
The pre-accident value was more than the balance due under the finance agreement. And 
Mr B wasnt in the motor trade or likely to attempt repair without using a professional 
repairer. 
So I consider that AXA shouldnt have dismissed his request. I consider that it shouldve 
offered Mr B the opportunity to keep the vehicle in return for a salvage deduction from the 
pre-accident value. I would expect the deduction to be up to 20% of the pre-accident value.
But Mr B didnt complain to AXA at the time. He agreed the pre-accident value and received 
his share without a salvage deduction. So AXA had the right to sell the damaged vehicle to 
its salvage agent. It has told us that this was for about £3,300.00. And that is more than I 
wouldve expected Mr B to pay by way of salvage deduction.
But I dont share Mr Bs view that AXA lied to him or did anything underhand. Rather, I 
consider that AXA placed too much weight on its own view of what was safe for Mr B and 
other road users.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable to try, at this stage, to put Mr B back in the 
position he wouldve been in if AXA had offered him a salvage deal.I can quite understand that Mr B feels a financial loss. But I cant hold AXA responsible for 
depreciation or finance repayments before the accident. And AXA paid the pre-accident 
value of the vehicle Mr B had lost. So I dont find that AXA has caused him a financial loss.
Nevertheless, I consider that  by unfairly declining him the salvage  AXA caused Mr B a 
loss of opportunity to keep the car for repair and/or sale. And I consider that  by unfairly 
declining him the salvage  AXA caused Mr B extra distress and inconvenience when he 
later found out that he couldve bought the damaged vehicle instead of someone else. 
Overall, I conclude that £200.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company to pay Mr B £200.00 for loss of 
opportunity and for distress and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman