DRN-3020335
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) mis-sold him a commercial insurance 
policy when he wouldve been better off with a landlords insurance policy. He would like the 
difference between the cost of the commercial insurance and the landlords insurance 
refunded with interest and compensation from the point the landlords insurance policy was 
first available.
What happened
Mr R has held commercial insurance since around 1993. He owns property which he rents 
out. He initially took out the insurance with another provider. But his policy was transferred to 
AXA.
Since the policy transfer, Mr Rs property has been covered under AXAs commercial 
insurance policy. This has renewed each year.
On 16 May 2020 Mr R complained to AXA. Hed found out that AXA now provided specific 
landlords insurance. He felt he shouldve been offered that insurance instead of the 
commercial policy he had as it was more suitable to his needs. He said that the commercial 
policy was more expensive. And didnt provide access to landlords insurance specialists as 
the landlords policy did.
AXA didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said that they couldnt offer Mr R their landlords 
insurance due to his 2005 subsidence claim. This meant that he couldnt meet the terms and 
conditions of the landlords insurance policy. But AXA offered to reduce the commercial 
insurance premium. And Mr R accepted the premium offered. They also confirmed that the 
correct premiums had been charged in previous years. 
Mr R was still unhappy. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He felt that AXA hadnt done anything wrong 
when they left Mr R on the commercial policy. And he didnt feel that Mr R wouldve done 
anything differently if hed been aware of the alternative landlords policy as soon as it 
became available. 
Mr R didnt agree. He felt that AXA shouldve exchanged his commercial policy for a 
landlords policy as soon as they established the specialist landlords team. He felt that hed 
been given a substandard product since then as his needs hadnt been serviced through 
AXAs product specialists. Mr R also felt that hed been significantly overcharged for his 
insurance over the years. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Rs complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr R said that AXA set up a dedicated landlords insurance business, with policy rates 
comparable to standard home insurance, around 15 years ago. He said that this new 
business included access to a team experienced in landlords insurance. He also said that 
there was a significant difference in premium between his commercial policy and the 
premium he wouldve paid under AXAs landlords insurance. So I can understand why he 
felt that hed been overcharged and sold the wrong type of policy. 
Theres no dispute that AXA knew what Mr R needed cover for. Mr R said that he was 
always told that the commercial policy he held was AXA's best cover for landlords. But, 
having found out about the specialist landlords policy and team, Mr R now believes he 
shouldve been provided with landlords insurance.
I need to decide if AXA shouldve moved Mr Rs policy from commercial to landlords as 
soon as that policy type became available. If I find that they shouldve, Ill ask them to put 
things right.
Should AXA have moved Mr Rs policy from commercial to landlords?
Mr R told this service that he made a claim for minor subsidence which AXA settled. But 
AXA have shown that they wouldnt have been able to provide Mr R with cover under their 
landlords policy due to the subsidence noted at his property. This had been present since 
the date of the initial subsidence claim, 24 January 2005. And this was before the 
introduction of the landlords policy. 
AXA shared an extract from their online landlords policy terms and conditions, which require 
that:
The property or properties have not suffered from, or is showing any visible signs of 
damage from subsidence, landslip or ground heave.
They said that as Mr Rs property has suffered from subsidence, they are unable to offer him 
the landlords policy.
So I consider that at the point that the landlords policy was introduced, Mr R wasnt eligible 
for it. His property didnt meet the terms and conditions of the landlords insurance policy. I 
note that such policies often exclude subsidence. So I dont find it a particularly unusual 
constraint in policies like these. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, but I cant agree that AXA shouldve exchanged his 
commercial policy for a landlords policy under these circumstances. Ill now look at whether 
Mr R shouldve had access to the specialist landlords team.
Was Mr R given a substandard product as he didnt have access to the landlords team?
I acknowledge Mr Rs point that in being denied access to the landlords insurance policy, he 
was also denied access to the specialist landlords team. I understand why he said that 
wouldve been a useful service. But Ive no evidence that AXA did anything wrong when they 
continued to provide commercial insurance, instead of landlords insurance.
As mentioned in the previous section, Mr R wasnt eligible for the landlords policy. So he 
couldnt access the specialist landlords team. While I appreciate that would be 
disappointing, Ive seen no evidence that AXA incorrectly denied him access. Ill now look at 
whether Mr R has been overcharged over the years hes been insured with AXA.Was Mr R overcharged?
My earlier comments show that Im satisfied that Mr R wasnt eligible for AXAs landlords 
insurance. Ive not seen evidence of AXA telling Mr R about their landlords insurance. So I 
also need to consider whether there was any financial impact on Mr R from not being made 
aware of the landlords insurance at an earlier stage. If I consider that Mr R wouldve made 
different decisions if hed known earlier, I may conclude that he has been overcharged in 
some way.
In Mr Rs complaint to AXA on 16 May 2020, he said: I have written to AXA many times 
asking them to review the decision to charge Commercial rates in relation to this policy and 
weve remained with AXA because we feel that AXA is a strong and trustworthy insurance 
brand, and because we believe that the policy provides subsidence cover. So Im satisfied 
that Mr R chose to stay with AXA despite his complaint to them. Its clear he valued the 
subsidence cover on his property that I suspect would be difficult to obtain elsewhere.
And I agree with our investigator that this shows that even if Mr R had known that AXA 
offered landlords insurance that he wasnt eligible for, he still wouldve chosen to continue 
his commercial cover with AXA.
AXAs file notes show that Mr R engaged with them at each renewal. On occasions he 
obtained a discount to that years premium. And on other occasions he suggested he may 
get his insurance from another provider. So I can see that Mr R was aware that other 
policies were available from other providers. And Im satisfied that its fair to conclude that he 
knew he had the option to move to another insurer if he wanted to. Therefore I cant fairly 
and reasonably ask AXA to refund any premium difference between the commercial policies 
Mr R purchased and the landlords insurance policies he wouldve liked to purchase.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr R. I understand how strongly he feels about his 
complaint. But, having looked at all the details of this case, Ive seen no evidence that his 
policy was mis-sold. So I cant ask AXA to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman