DRN-4065981
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E are unhappy that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network 
(Primis) didnt cancel their mortgage application after they had told it they werent going to 
continue with the application.  
What happened
Mr E and Mrs E approached Primis in April 2021 about a re-mortgage on their property, as 
they wanted to borrow more money and the fixed rate they were on was due to expire. 
Primis recommended a two year fixed rate repayment mortgage with a particular lender and 
Mr E and Mrs E submitted an application to that lender.
Mr E and Mrs E had put on the application form that the value of their property was 
£150,000, however the lender valued the property at only £120,000. This meant that 
Mr E and Mrs E couldnt get the deal they applied for. They told Primis they would not be 
progressing with the application and that they had raised a complaint directly with the lender. 
Mr E and Mrs E subsequently re-mortgaged with a different lender.
In April 2022, Mr E and Mrs E noticed that their credit scores had fallen. They established 
this was because the lender that Primis recommended had carried out credit searches on 
them - because the application had remained open.
Mr E and Mrs E complained to both Primis and the lender about what had happened. As a 
result of the complaint to the lender, it removed the searches from their credit files. 
Mr E and Mrs Es complaint to Primis in June 2022, was that its representative hadnt closed 
the application down as they had requested. They said this caused them distress and 
inconvenience needing to resolve the resultant issue with their credit files, for which they 
thought they should receive some compensation. They also didnt think theyd received the 
service they should for the fee theyd paid.
Primis didnt uphold the complaint. It wrote to Mr E and Mrs E in August 2022 saying that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong and that it had been the lenders decision to keep the 
application open for what was a surprisingly long time. Primis noted that the lender had tried 
to contact its mortgage adviser in November 2021 and didnt receive a response other than a 
bounce back e-mail - because the particular adviser had left. Primis said it was particularly 
surprising that the lender continued with the application after this point. 
Mr E and Mrs E remained unhappy and referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in December 2022. 
An investigator here reached an opinion and shared it with both parties. They thought the 
broker fee was payable because Primis had performed its role of advising on and 
recommending a suitable mortgage product. However, they also thought Primis should have 
notified the lender that the application was cancelled and they recommended that Primis pay 
Mr E and Mrs E £75 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to them.
Mr E and Mrs E responded to say they accepted the investigators findings. However, Primis 
disagreed. In summary, it said that insufficient weight had been placed on the actions of the 
lender. It said that the lender had confirmed that an underwriter can make a decision to 
cancel an application, as well as a broker. It reiterated why it didnt think it was reasonable of 
the lender to have kept the application open for as long as it did.
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld. They said that their focus in the 
context of investigating this complaint, was on the actions of Primis, not the lender. They 
thought that Mr E and Mrs E had been clear in telling Primis representative that they 
wouldnt be continuing with the application and that, on this basis, the Primis representative 
ought to have informed the lender that Mr E and Mrs E had withdrawn from the application. 
Primis still didnt agree. It said it was relevant that Mr E and Mrs E were in direct 
conversation with the lender, having raised a complaint about the valuation. It said it wouldnt 
expect an adviser to cancel a mortgage application whilst there was a complaint ongoing  
since the outcome of the compliant may have changed things and cancelling the application 
may have been to Mr E and Mrs Es detriment. 
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld. They said theyd spoken to 
Mr E, who had said they had decided not to proceed with the mortgage, regardless of the 
outcome of the complaint to the lender. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
This case turns on whether it was reasonable for Primis to not inform the lender that 
Mr E and Mrs E no longer wanted to proceed with the application  after Mr E and Mrs E had 
told the Primis representative that they didnt want to continue with it.  
I dont think it was. Im not persuaded by what Primis has said about the significance of 
Mr E and Mrs E having raised a complaint about the valuation directly with the lender. 
Mr E and Mrs E say they had decided to not proceed with the application, regardless of the 
outcome of the complaint theyd raised directly with the lender. On balance, I find this to be 
plausible and persuasive. 
Primis own notes detailing the communications with Mr E and Mrs E at the relevant time 
clearly document that Mr E and Mrs E had said they werent continuing with the application. 
There is no qualification to this  the notes do not say this was subject to the outcome of 
their complaint with the lender. 
Primis suggestion that the adviser wouldve thought it inappropriate to cancel the application 
is speculative and said with hindsight. If this is something its representative was thinking 
about, then at the very least I wouldve expected the representative to clarify the position 
with Mr E and Mrs E, rather than ignore their instruction.
Given what Mr E and Mrs E have said about them having decided to not proceed, regardless 
of the outcome of their complaint to the lender - which is supported by the contemporaneous 
notes - I think that had the adviser checked with Mr and Mrs E, its more likely than not that 
they wouldve confirmed they didnt want to continue with the application. As such, I find that Primis failure to tell the lender that Mr E and Mrs E had decided not to 
proceed with the application, was a significant contributory factor to the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr E and Mrs E from the subsequent credit searches carried 
out by the lender in 2022. After all, if Primis had told the lender Mr E and Mrs E werent 
continuing with the application, the searches wouldnt have happened. 
I consider that £75 compensation is fair and in line with our approach to compensation 
awards. 
Primis has focused a lot on the actions of the lender in all of this. Its possible the lender 
could or should have done some things differently. However, I am considering 
Mr E and Mrs Es complaint about Primis only.
Going forwards, I would encourage Primis, when investigating any future complaints, to 
focus more on its own actions when considering whether it has acted fairly, rather than the 
actions of others.
Putting things right
To put things right, Primis needs to pay Mr E and Mrs E £75 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint about First Complete Ltd  
trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network and I direct it to do what Ive set out above under 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman