DRN-2799412
The complaint
Mr B has complained Bank of Ireland (UK) plc, trading as Post Office Money credit card, 
wont refund him for two transactions he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B had lent his credit card to his daughter. This was to pay for some travel costs. 
Shed not immediately remembered to give the card back to Mr B. In July 2019 her purse 
was stolen. This was reported to the police. Money was taken out at a cash machine on one 
of her own cards. Mr Bs credit card was used to buy foreign currency and to take out £300 
at a cash machine.
Bank of Ireland (BoI) wouldnt refund Mr B as they believed he was in breach of his terms 
and conditions by allowing someone else to use his credit card.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator noted Mr B hadnt 
authorised the two disputed transactions. Therefore under the appropriate regulations she 
asked BoI to refund Mr B for the two transactions.
BoI insisted their terms and conditions allowed them to hold Mr B liable despite consumer 
credit and payment regulations. They asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Bs complaint.
Prior to the complaint being allocated to an ombudsman, a further investigator reviewed the 
complaint. He couldnt see how the PIN had been compromised and felt therefore BoI didnt 
need to refund Mr B.
Mr B then asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Im upholding this complaint. As this outcome has 
already been explained in a view dated 29 May 2020 I believe both parties have had an 
opportunity to comment so am happy to complete this as a final decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. Thats because provisions within the 
Consumer Credit Act limit the ability to hold a customer liable in cases of gross negligence 
when a credit card is used as in Mr Bs case.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by BoI, Mr B (and his 
daughter) as well as the third party which accepted Mr Bs card to pay for a foreign 
exchange transaction. Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit card 
particularly as BoI has relied on these for why they wouldnt uphold his complaint.
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators views of 29 May and 11 December 2020 and 
feel no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those 
aspects which drive the decision Im making.
Im in no doubt that Miss Bs, Mr Bs daughter, purse was stolen on 17 July. Her own debit 
card was used to withdraw cash, as was her fathers credit card. The theft was reported to 
the police. Im also aware that the foreign exchange transaction was completed using an 
unknown third partys ID whilst Mr Bs credit card and PIN was used to authenticate the 
transaction. All parties have wondered how this can be as the third party company has ID 
requirements. I suspect they followed their requirement to identify who was purchasing the 
currency  which we can see by the record of the unknown partys ID  but did not check 
whose card was making that purchase. That isnt massively surprising as I doubt if the 
person at the checkout had any opportunity to inspect the card.
This means that my starting point has to be that Mr B didnt authorise the disputed 
transactions. So Ive gone on to consider under what circumstances BoI could hold him 
liable.
Ive considered section 2.2 and 13.4 of Mr Bs terms and conditions which at different times, 
BoI says theyve relied upon. These state:
Miss B wasnt using Mr Bs credit card at the time her purse was stolen nor did she have 
Mr Bs consent to use it. Hes made it clear he authorised its use for a specific transaction 
and what then happened was  as all parties admit  Miss B had forgotten to return it. On 
this basis I dont believe section 2.2 applies.
Nobodys suggested Mr B acted fraudulently. I cant see any basis for believing section 13.4 
applies here either.
Section 84 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 does say that the consumer may be liable for 
any loss caused by misuse by someone who has acquired possession of the credit token 
with the cardholders consent. Theres no doubt Miss B had Mr Bs card with his consent but 
no evidence Miss B caused the misuse.  
I appreciate Mr B didnt have his card by his own side but throughout Im pretty sure he knew 
where it was and believed it was safe and secure. The disputed transactions only happened 
after Miss Bs purse was stolen.
Theres been a lot of discussion within this complaint about how the PIN was known and 
used. I can only refer as I have done above that there is no legal provision when a credit 
card is used to suggest someone is liable based on gross negligence. I have, however, 
considered whether its fair and reasonable to hold Mr B liable based on the specific 
circumstances within the complaint.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr B in this case) authorised these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Bs PIN, 
made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont believe Mr B made or authorised the two 
disputed transactions. 
Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr B authorised the transactions, BoI will need to refund the transactions.  
I can see from Mr Bs statements that he paid off the debt in full by 30 August 2019. On this 
basis theyll need to add 8% simple interest to the disputed transactions from that date 
onwards until the date of settlement. I suspect Mr B used money to settle his credit card bill 
to avoid any impact on his credit record.
If Mr B has continued to retain this credit card, I suspect he repays in full mostly. Therefore 
its fair that BoI pay this money direct to Mr B rather than to his credit card account.
Under the Payment Services Regulations, BoI can withhold up to £35. I would expect BoI to 
let Mr B know this. If this is what they are planning to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Bank of Ireland (UK) plc, trading as 
Post Office Money credit card, to:
Refund £2,277.79 for the two disputed transactions made on 17 July 2019;
Refund all associated interest, fees and charges; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 30 August 2019 until the date of 
settlement;
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman