DRN-4141522
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In September 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr R information about his 
entitlement under his current DB scheme which showed a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £512,583.27. Mr R had a total of 20 years and 1 month of pensionable service in 
the DB scheme.
Mr R wasnt sure what to do about his DB pension so he contacted his independent financial 
adviser (IFA). As Mr Rs IFA wasnt authorised to advise on DB pension scheme transfers, 
it referred Mr R on to IFM. A meeting took place between Mr R and IFM sometime before 
late October 2017 during which a fact-find was completed to gather information about Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives. The fact-find was undated but it noted that Mr R was aged 55, 
his wife was aged 53 and their adult son lived with them. It was also noted that Mr R earned 
£40,000 a year and his wife earned £7,500 a year. It was further noted that Mr and Mrs R 
had an outstanding mortgage of £35,000 although the remaining term was undocumented. 
Finally, IFM documented that Mr R was now a member of his employers defined 
contribution pension scheme to which he contributed 6% of his salary a year and his 
employer 10%. No savings, investments or assets (aside from their home) were held. IFM 
also assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR) during the meeting, concluding it was cautious. 
The fact-find also included sections on retirement planning and the drawing of pension 
benefits. Both sections included a number of questions which were then followed by a 
section of tick-box answers for Mr R to select. Mr R ticked boxes to say he preferred lump 
sum death benefits over a pension; that he wanted to increase death benefits but only if 
doing so didnt reduce his own retirement benefits; that he would like flexibility in retirement 
and to control the way his pension benefits were paid; that a higher tax-free cash (TFC) 
lump sum was important to him; that he anticipated retiring early and was happy to accept a 
lower pension, and that he was concerned about the security of his pension and didnt value 
the guarantee provided by the PPF. Finally Mr R was documented as wanting to take 
£40,000 TFC in the next twelve months to clear his mortgage and £5,000 of credit card debt. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
On 23 October 2017, IFM provided Mr R with its suitability report in which it recommended 
that he transfer his BSPS DB pension benefits to a personal pension plan. Mr Rs objective 
for transferring was documented in the suitability report. This was that he wanted to transfer 
his DB scheme benefits to provide greater flexibility and control when drawing his pension. 
The report also noted that Mr R said hed like to retire around age 57 which was something 
that might not be possible under BSPS2 or PPF, nor would either scheme provide him with 
the flexibility he wanted to achieve. The suitability report further noted that Mr R wanted to 
access some TFC now (without the need to simultaneously draw an income) so he could 
repay his mortgage immediately and enter retirement debt-free. 
Mr R signed the transfer discharge forms on the same day. 
Mr R received a letter dated 14 December 2017 from the provider of his personal pension 
informing him that his personal pension had been set up with a start date of 12 December 
2017 following receipt of his total CETV of £512,583.27. The letter confirmed Mr R had taken 
£40,000 as a tax-free lump sum. 
Mr R retired from work at age 59 in March 2022.
On 3 February 2022 Mr R, through his representative, complained to IFM. He said the 
advice hed received to transfer his DB scheme had been unsuitable and not in his best 
interests.  
IFM acknowledged Mr Rs complaint but failed to provide him with a formal response. 
Dissatisfied with the lack of response to his complaint Mr R complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and recommended that 
it was upheld. In short, our Investigator said he didnt think that IFMs advice was suitable or 
in Mr Rs best interests so he recommended that IFM should establish whether Mr R had 
suffered a loss as a result of its advice to transfer. 
Our Investigator thought that IFM should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2 because 
at the time of the advice he wasnt certain about when exactly he wished to retire, and 
because (as ascertained by our Investigator) Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage wasnt due to be 
repaid until he reached age 62. Our Investigator also thought it wouldnt have been in Mr Rs 
interests to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced if he moved to the PPF and 
that, had he done so, they would not have been offset by the more favourable reduction (as 
compared to BSPS2) for taking early retirement. Our Investigator also recommended that 
IFM should pay Mr R £350 to address the distress and inconvenience caused by the receipt 
of unsuitable advice. 
IFM didnt respond to our Investigators findings. Because the complaint was unable to 
resolved informally it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Since 1994 it has been a regulatory requirement that a business advising a consumer 
about a DB scheme transfer must provide the consumer with a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS). The TVAS provides the consumer with the annual investment return 
(also known as the critical yield) their transferred fund needs to achieve in order to 
match, at retirement, the DB scheme benefits they are giving up. This information is vital 
if the consumer is to understand whether it is in their best interests to give up the 
guarantees associated with their DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent 
benefits at retirement. Here however, IFM didnt provide Mr R with this crucial 
information, in so doing, failing to pay due regard to Mr Rs information needs so that he 
could make a fully informed decision. 
The suitability report IFM provided to Mr R refers in a general way to the TVAS but goes 
on to dismiss its relevance on the grounds that Mr R wanted to take advantage of the 
pensions freedoms available to him rather than purchase an annuity. In the suitability 
report IFM states that the annual investment returns required to match at age 65 the 
BSPS benefits Mr R was giving up were typically about 8% a year (and had IFM 
produced a TVAS, the critical yield for retirement at age 57 was likely to be significantly higher than typically 8%). IFM also said that, because the terms of the BSPS2 were 
likely to be inferior to the current BSPS, the growth rate required to match BSPS2 would 
be lower (than 8%). For the PPF, IFM said it investment growth rates of around 4% per 
year would need to be achieved to match the benefits being offered by the PPF. 
But Mr R was a cautious investor, so he would have needed to take investment risks in 
excess of those he was comfortable with just to match his DB scheme benefits. I say this 
because the discount rate was 3.7% for 9 years to retirement (2.5% for 1 year to 
retirement) and the regulators lower projection rate was 2%, I think Mr R was always 
likely to receive pension benefits from age 65 (and age 57) of a lower value than those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in 
line with his attitude to risk. It clearly wasnt in Mr Rs best interests to give up the 
guarantees associated with his DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent 
benefits at retirement. But here I think he was likely to be substantially worse off by 
transferring. It follows that I dont consider the transfer to be a financially viable one. 
By the point IFM was advising Mr R it was a known fact that continuing in BSPS in its 
existing form wasnt an option, yet IFM based its minimal analysis on a scheme that 
wasnt set to continue. And whilst the suitability report outlines some of the potential risks 
associated with transferring, doing so does not make an unsuitable recommendation 
suitable. Transparency is not the same as suitability.
IFM has justified the transfer by saying that  financial viability aside  there were other 
compelling reasons for doing it, principally that Mr R placed a higher value on having 
flexibility, choice and control over his pension over and above having a guaranteed 
income for life and because he desired early retirement. IFM said neither objective may 
be satisfied by the BSPS2 or PPF.
I dont think Mr R necessarily wanted to retire early. I say this because his retirement 
plans clearly werent fully formulated as he said he may want to retire early, at age 57. 
Whilst early retirement was clearly discussed at the time of the advice, in the end, Mr R 
worked until he was nearing age 60 but I understand that retirement at the point was as 
a result of ill-health rather than any specific goal he had. 
I dont think either that Mr R required flexibility in retirement. I also say this because there 
is no evidence that Mr R needed anything other than a fixed, escalating pension in 
retirement. In fact there was no information gathering carried out by IFM about Mr Rs 
retirement income needs and plans at all. So I dont think it can be said that flexibility 
was an actual objective for him. I think his retirement income needs could have been met 
by remaining in the DB scheme and moving with it to the BSPS2. And if, when his 
retirement plans became more concrete, he later decided he did really want and need 
the flexibility associated with a personal pension plan then he could have transferred his 
benefits then. So I think it was too early to make such an irreversible decision. 
Further Mr R was, by the time IFM advised him, a member of his employers defined 
contribution scheme to which he was contributing 6% of his salary and his employer 
10%. So Mr R already had a pension scheme that would have provide him with flexibility 
at retirement had that been something he wanted and needed at the time. Whilst the 
fund would likely not have been significant at retirement it would, nevertheless, have 
been able to be flexibly accessed.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr R had a genuine need to access his 
TFC before retirement. I say this because it is clear from the fact-find that Mr and Mrs R 
were managing to afford their monthly mortgage repayments and also had some surplus income left over each month which could have been redirected (either directly or via a 
personal loan) to clear down their credit card debt or build up a savings fund. And Ive 
seen no evidence that their mortgage needed to be repaid at age 55 instead of either 
running to term (at age 62) or to when Mr R took retirement. 
Mr R has said that he would have let his mortgage run to term had he been suitably 
advised and had used any savings he accumulated from his disposable income whilst 
working to clear any remaining balance on retirement. So I think that Mr R could have 
cleared his mortgage and remained in his DB scheme and I think that IFM should have 
had regard to Mr Rs information needs in this respect so that he would have been in a 
position to make a fully informed decision. 
So Mr R didnt need to give up the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to 
achieve his objectives of repaying his debts, possibly take early retirement and have 
flexibility in the way he accessed his pension benefits (had that been a true objective). 
Part of IFMs role was to provide Mr R with full information about his early retirement 
entitlements under the alternative BSPS2 and PPF schemes so that he could make a 
fully informed decision. 
Both the BSPS2 and the PPF would have allowed Mr R to take early retirement although 
his benefits under those schemes would have been subject to actuarial reductions to 
reflect the fact that the pension would need to sustain him over a longer period. 
Unfortunately there's no evidence IFM made this clear to Mr R. Nor did it give him details 
of his entitlements from these two schemes if he took early retirement (either with or 
without also taking tax-free cash) nor what critical yields needed to be attained by 
transferring in order to match their benefits (aside from the critical yield of around 4% to 
match the benefits offered by the PPF at age 65). Thus Mr R had no means of 
comparing whether transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension compared 
favourably or not with moving to the BSPS2 or PPF either for retirement at age 57 or at 
age 65.
IFM failed to have regard to Mr Rs information needs or to communicate information to 
him in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. IFM stated in the suitability report 
that it was unlikely that Mr R would have the option to take benefits from the PPF early  
but this was not the case. Mr R could have taken benefits from the PPF early had he so 
wished so this statement was misleading. And the early retirement factors for both 
income and for tax-free cash entitlement under the PPF were more favourable than the 
BSPS2 and IFM should have explained this to Mr R. 
And if early retirement was a genuine goal for Mr R, it wasnt IFMs role just to put in 
place what Mr R mightve thought he wanted. Its role was to fully interrogate his 
objectives and to advise him on what was in his best interests. But there was a lack of 
detailed analysis and examination about Mr Rs circumstances, future plans and 
retirement needs such that IFM could conclude that the transfer was clearly in Mr Rs 
best interests. 
IFM assessed Mr R as being able to accept the risk of the transfer because of the size of 
his CETV and the potential investment timescale. But I think Mr R had little capacity for 
loss  this was his main pension and his wife had no private pension provision at all  so 
I dont think he could really tolerate the risk of transferring his DB pension. Further, in 
transferring his DB scheme, all of Mr Rs pension provision was then subject to 
investment risk whereas by moving to the BSPS2 or PPF, Mr Rs benefits would escalate 
annually.Mr Rs desire for control over his pension was overstated, he was an inexperienced 
investor and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr R 
 it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about his employer and the PPF, but it was 
IFMs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs 
pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr R 
with guaranteed income and tax-free cash, and as he retired early, the benefits available 
to him may have exceeded those under the BSPS2. Mr R could still have achieved his 
retirement objectives even if his DB scheme moved to the PPF. 
The difference in death benefits from a personal pension werent worth giving up the 
safeguarded benefits offered by the DB scheme for nor was it in Mr Rs best interests to 
do so. 
On the fact-find Mr R ticked the box that said he only wished to increase death benefits 
if this does not reduce my own potential retirement benefits. So it seems to me that lump 
sum death benefits werent a priority for Mr R and definitely not at the expense of his 
retirement benefits. And given that the transfer wasnt financially viable a reduction in Mr 
Rs retirement benefits was almost certain to ensue but IFM proceeded to advise Mr R to 
transfer regardless. 
Ultimately IFM should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. IFM was 
tasked with advising Mr R about what was best for his retirement and its clear that Mr R 
told IFM that he wasnt prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits. The death benefits of both the BSPS2 and PPF were underplayed. 
Both offered a spouses pension which was guaranteed and escalated and which could 
have been valuable to Mr Rs wife in the event of his death. The death benefits offered 
by the personal pension however, were dependent on investment performance and, as 
the Drawdown Income graph shows, there may not have been a large sum left 
particularly if Mr R lived a long life.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Rs best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. Im satisfied that if the risks associated with giving up his secure income had been 
made sufficiently clear then Mr R would have retained his DB scheme benefits. So, Im 
upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr R received from IFM was unsuitable and not 
in his best interests.
I also agree with our Investigator that learning that he might have put his security in 
retirement at risk unnecessarily would have been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr R. To address that I think its fair that IFM pays him £350 compensation.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. I say this because although Mr R indicated he may want to 
retire early his plans to do so werent fixed, so I dont think it would have been in his best 
interests to accept the reduction in benefits associated with entering the PPF. In addition, under BSPS2, the spouses pension would have been fixed at 50% of Mr Rs pension at the 
date of death, calculated as if no lump sum had been taken. Further the annual indexation of 
Mr Rs pension when in payment was more advantageous under the BSPS2 than the PPF. 
So, on balance, had it been suitably advising Mr R and acting in his best interests, I think 
that IFM should have advised Mr R to opt in to the BSPS2. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Mr R based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R retired at age 59 but he did so because of ill health. But given the 
outstanding term on his mortgage, I think that Mr R, but for his ill health, would have chosen 
to retire at age 62 once his mortgage had been fully redeemed. So compensation should be 
based on Mr R taking benefits at age 62.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
IFM should also pay Mr R £350 for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice has caused 
him.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman