DRN-2900203
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc because 
theyve been paying the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2009. They have said they 
asked repeatedly for a new rate but their requests were turned down. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
Ive reviewed what my colleague said about our jurisdiction to consider this matter, and I 
agree that we can only consider the period after Santander responded to the previous 
complaint on 20 July 2015.
This means Im unable to deal with Mr and Mrs As most recent request which was for 
information about the SVR since 2009, copies of their mortgage statements for the same 
period, and an explanation for any mismatch between the two. The only period Im 
considering here is from 21 July 2015 up until Mr and Mrs A put a new preferential rate in 
place in August 2017.
Our investigator said that Santander hadnt evidenced that there was no rate available for 
Mr and Mrs A in July 2015, and so upheld the complaint. Santander agreed and so all Im 
deciding here is how this complaint should be redressed.
The starting point is that a rate should be put in place for the period between 21 July 2015 
and when Mr and Mrs A took the fixed rate in August 2017. Ive looked at the information 
Santander has provided about Mr and Mrs As mortgage and the two-year fixed rates that 
were available and I agree that it wouldnt have been cost effective to pay the fee to get 
the lower rate, so Im satisfied the account should be reconfigured as if it had been 
charged at an interest rate of 4.29% for that period. Im also satisfied that, based on Mr 
and Mrs As mortgage account (including the LTV) that these were the best two-year fixed 
rates they would have been eligible for at that time  Santander has provided me with 
information in confidence to prove that.
As Mr and Mrs A were making their payments based on the higher SVR at that time the 
account reconfiguration will mean they overpaid their mortgage in that period. So those 
overpayments need to be returned to Mr and Mrs A, plus interest needs to be added onto 
each overpayment from the date Mr and Mrs A made the payment to the date the 
overpayment is refunded. Im satisfied that refund (plus interest) will put right the financial 
loss Mr and Mrs A incurred for the period we can consider.
I now need to consider the compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs A. Our investigator thought £250 was a fair and reasonable amount, and I 
agree. Mr and Mrs A said  we strongly disagree with the quantum of the proposed 
compensation of £250. We have spent a great deal of time and effort consulting with 
advisers on this matter and the sum you have proposed is in no way proportionate to the 
time and effort expended on a matter that the bank allowed to last for about 10 years. It 
should be revised upwards to actually make the Bank pay for its exceptional bad faith and 
unwholesome behaviour in the financial markets.
But as our investigator explained, were not able to consider a ten year period, were only 
considering the time between July 2015 and August 2017  a two year period. Having 
looked at everything I cant see that there was a lot of contact between the parties in that 
time, such that would demonstrate a higher level of compensation is due. Nor have Mr 
and Mrs A shown they incurred any other losses during this two year period. 
Our service isnt the regulator, and we dont fine or punish businesses. Rather we look at 
what is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances. I recognise Mr and Mrs A have been 
troubled by what happened, and my award takes that into account. Having considered 
everything, and bearing in mind I am limited to only considering matters between July 
2015 and August 2017, Im satisfied that £250 represents fair compensation.
For completeness, I can confirm that Im not awarding the sum that has been mentioned 
previously as the outcome of the calculation. Thats because it looks like Santander has 
calculated that from March 2015, rather than from July 2015, and we can only consider 
what has happened since 21 July 2015.
It may be Santander is willing to stand by that calculation, but as weve always been clear 
that we cant consider the period before July 2015 that isnt something I can tell 
Santander to do. To be clear, I can only order Santander to reconfigure the account from 
21 July 2015, if it chooses to go back further than that (as it appears from the calculation 
on file it has done previously) then that would be a gesture of goodwill. If it now decides to 
re-run the calculation based just on the period from 21 July 2015 then we cant say it is 
wrong to do so.
Santander accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They said they think 
the decision to not consider the period before 20 July 2015 is arbitrary. And the finding that 
there was not a lot of contact such that would demonstrate a higher level of compensation is 
due is subjective. They feel compensation should be correlated to the graveness of the 
infraction by the bank, not whether they complained loudly enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs A have previously had a decision from one of my ombudsman colleagues about 
our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, and that explained why we can only consider the 
period since a final response letter was issued in July 2015. This is a matter of our rules, and 
we simply dont have the power to consider a complaint about matters before that date for 
the reasons my colleague gave.
The backdating of an interest rate to 21 July 2015 is the correct redress for this complaint as 
that puts Mr and Mrs A (as far as possible) back in the position they would have been in had 
they taken a new rate at that time. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, were not the regulator and we cant fine or punish 
businesses. Having considered everything Im satisfied the award of £250 compensation is fair here as Im only considering a two year period where Mr and Mrs A were paying the SVR 
rather than a 4.29% fixed rate.
I understand Mr and Mrs A are considering what options are available to them in law. Having 
considered everything Mr and Mrs A have said, and having considered the matter again, I 
see no reason to change my position. Consequently, Ive decided that the suggested 
settlement is fair as I described in my provisional decision and below. Mr and Mrs A are at 
liberty to not accept this decision if they so wish and pursue the matter via other means. But 
this decision brings to an end our consideration of this complaint about Santander.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Apply the 4.29% fixed rate to Mr and Mrs As mortgage from 21 July 2015 until they 
moved to the new fixed rate in August 2017;
Refund the resulting overpayments to Mr and Mrs A;
Santander should add simple annual interest of 8%* to each overpayment, running 
from the date of payment to date of refund;
Pay Mr and Mrs A £250 compensation.
* If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so but it should give Mr and Mrs A the necessary paperwork, if they ask for 
it, so they can reclaim any tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman