DRN-2583574
The complaint
Mr Q is complaining about the handling of a claim under his park home insurance policy by 
American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK (AIG). All references to AIG 
include their agents.
 
What happened
In March 2019, a drunk driver crashed into the corner of Mr Qs park home (static caravan), 
causing extensive damage. When Mr Q made a claim under his park home insurance policy, 
AIG appointed loss adjustors who sent a caravan repair company out to quote for repairs. 
This first company didnt provide a quote  instead they said they wouldnt take on the work 
as the park home would need to be repositioned. The loss adjustors interim report notes 
that the repair company said the park home was a total loss and they had concerns about 
unforeseen issues and future ingress of water.
The loss adjustors sent a second caravan repair company out to quote. This company 
provided a detailed quote and estimated that the cost of repairs would be in the region of 
£37,000. The loss adjustors also obtained a quote for a replacement park home  this was 
around £100,000. 
The loss adjustors then instructed the second caravan repair company to carry out some 
initial work  repositioning and re-levelling Mr Qs park home so that they could make an 
informed decision as to whether repairs would likely be successful. 
Mr Qs unhappy about the work performed. He said the park home wasnt levelled properly 
and took some measurements which he said were outside the manufacturers tolerances. He 
also noted that some of the doors werent properly aligned. Hes considers that once his park 
homes repaired, it wont be worth as much as it was before the accident, as the site owner 
knows its been in an accident. Because of these issues, he doesnt want the repairers to 
continue working on his park home. Instead, he wants AIG to replace it with a new one. 
Mr Qs also unhappy that the repairers cut up his decking and took it away. He said he was 
just expecting them to pull it away from the side of the park home. AIG said the decking was 
contaminated by sewage due to poor maintenance so wasnt covered by Mr Qs policy  so 
they wont pay for its replacement.
Mr Q has also complained about the service he received from AIG and their loss adjustors  
and said this caused him additional stress.
When Mr Q complained to AIG, they said the policy gave them the option to repair or replace 
his park home and that theyd chosen to repair it. They said their inspections of the home 
showed that a repair would be suitable. AIG said they were responsible for putting Mr Q 
back into the position he would have been in had the incident not occurred  but not for any 
repair or replacement that would be considered a betterment or upgrade.
Mr Q brought his complaint to our service and our investigators view was that AIG should 
replace the park home. She didnt think AIG had come to their decision to repair Mr Qs park 
home fairly. As well as the potential future water ingress, she noted Mr Qs concerns about 
the loss in value of his park home as a result of the accident. And she thought AIG should 
pay £300 compensation to Mr Q for the stress, cost and inconvenience caused by their 
decision, including the additional cost of heating the damaged park home.
AIG didnt agree with our investigator. They reiterated their position and said the repair 
company was a reputable company. They added that it wasnt appropriate to consider the 
potential decrease in value  giving as a comparison the example of a car that had been in 
an accident and then repaired which would likely suffer a reduction in value. Because AIG 
and our investigator were unable to reach a resolution, the case came to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October 2020. I said I thought AIGs decision to repair 
rather than replace the park home was fair. I said that Id found the report of the second 
repair company to be more persuasive than the first because it was more detailed and 
clearly considered each of the issues in arriving at a cost of around £37,000 for repairs. In 
contrast, the first companys report simply said that they wouldnt take on the work because 
the park home needed repositioning and there were likely to be unforeseen problems due to 
the nature of the damage.
I didnt think it was fair to compensate Mr Q for any potential loss in value as his policy 
specifically excludes any loss in value following repair or replacement.
In respect of the decking, I said that on balance, I didnt think AIG needed to pay to replace 
the decking because it seemed to be a problem caused by a prior maintenance issue. But I 
thought AIG could have saved a lot of upset and perhaps salvaged some of the decking if 
theyd talked to Mr Q and explained the situation before cutting the decking up. So I thought 
AIG should pay £150 to compensate Mr Q for the upset caused.
In respect of the handling of Mr Qs claim, I didnt think it was fair or reasonable to hold AIG 
responsible for any delays after the date Mr Q refused to have any further repairs done. But I 
did think Mr Qs claim could have been handled better in the early stages. I thought AIG had 
caused approximately two months of limited contact and delays and said AIG should pay 
Mr Q a further £150 to compensate him for this. So, I said, they should pay him a total of 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Comments on my provisional decision
AIG didnt comment on my provisional decision. In summary, Mr Q said:
The market value of the park home at the time of the accident was around the same as 
the cost of the repairs so it didnt make sense to repair it.
He was very unhappy about the re-siting and relevelling work that had been done and 
didnt think it would be possible to properly rectify this. And he was concerned about 
accepting a 12-month warranty on the repairs in case of future problems.
The decking wasnt rotten, it was in good condition and the repair company cut it up for 
no reason apart from to gain access. He sent a report from a decking installation 
company to confirm that the remaining part of the decking was in good condition. 
I replied to Mr Q explaining why I wasnt inclined to change my position on the first two of his 
points and he didnt comment any further. In summary, I said:
The only option for replacing Mr Qs park home was with a new one, so I didnt think the 
market value of the existing home was particularly relevant; the comparison between cost of repairs and cost of replacement meant it was clearly more economic to repair the 
park home.
I could understand why he wasnt happy about the work that had been done but he 
needed to allow AIG to continue the repairs and then contact them if there were any 
problems after the repairs were finished.
However, in respect of the decking, I felt Mr Q had provided enough evidence to change my 
mind. I exchanged further emails with AIG and Mr Q to allow both sides to comment. And 
having received final comments from both parties, Ive set out my findings on this aspect of 
the complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Qs complaint and direct AIG to compensate Mr Q for the 
loss of his decking, as well as for the upset, stress and inconvenience theyve caused. Ill 
explain why.
In respect of three of Mr Qs complaint points, neither Mr Q nor AIG have provided any 
evidence which has changed my view. So I maintain that:
AIGs decision to repair rather than replace the park home was fair;
AIG dont need to compensate Mr Q for any loss in value of his park home; and
AIG could have handled Mr Qs claim better and should pay £150 compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused.
Ill now deal with Mr Qs fourth complaint point about the decking.
The decking
The evidence in respect of the decking is rather contradictory. So Ive thought about whats 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Mr Qs testimony has been consistent throughout this process. Hes said some of the 
decking was damaged in the accident but that the majority was in good condition. And hes 
provided expert evidence to this effect. Hes said the repair company didnt speak to him 
before cutting up the decking and when he saw what was happening and challenged them 
on it, they told him hed get new decking out of it.
Its clear from repair companys initial quotation that their intention was to remove the 
decking/skirting, repair the damage caused by the accident, and then refit it. But instead (as 
noted from the invoice) a significant portion of the decking was broken up and disposed of, 
with the small remaining part being temporarily refitted for access to the park home.
The crux of the issue therefore is why the repair company broke up the decking. In one 
report, theyve said it was contaminated by black water. But there is quite a bit of 
inconsistency in the reports. They variously talk about facilitating the re-siting, accident 
damage, contamination, and the posts being rotten from sewage:
The loss adjustors report dated 20 March 2019 states the pre-damaged condition of 
the unit is excellent and well maintained. And theres no evidence of standing water in 
the photos attached to the report. This is consistent with Mr Q telling us the sewage 
problem happened on 3 April.The sewage is mentioned in the repair companys quote  from their visit on 4 April. It 
says: At the time of our visit the ground area adjacent was flooded with raw sewage.
The loss adjustors report dated 18 June 2019 states: It has been noted by the 
contractors that the slab was severely contaminated with sewerage not as a result of the 
recent impact but a long standing issue that the site owner has failed to rectify. As a 
result, the decking framework is damaged and contaminated and will require 
replacement.
The loss adjustors report dated 21 June 2019 notes that Mr Q was unhappy about the 
removal of the decking. And it says the contractors commented: the decking was 
removed to facilitate the re-siting and due to the posts being rotten from an unrelated 
sewage issue below the unit, the decking could not be re-instated for safety reasons.
From the evidence Ive summarised above, there are three possibilities. Either the decking 
needed to be broken up to facilitate the re-siting work and so was a result of the accident 
damage and should be covered by Mr Qs policy. Or, it could have been removed from the 
side of the unit and left intact if the repair company felt it wasnt safe to reinstate it (whether 
because of contamination or because it was rotten). I cant think of a reasonable explanation 
of why Mr Q would have instructed repair company to break it up.
The third possibility is that the decking was so rotten that breaking it up was unavoidable. 
But from the photos, expert report and other information Ive seen, Im not satisfied this was 
the case. None of these suggest that the decking was falling apart. In addition, it seems the 
sewage issue first arose after the accident, at the beginning of April. Im not persuaded that 
such significant rot would occur in two months. And even if it had, Id be inclined to hold AIG 
responsible for this given the time that elapsed between the accident and the re-positioning 
work.
All in all, I think its most likely that the decking was salvageable  and that if AIG had asked 
Mr Q before breaking it up it wouldnt need replacing. I therefore think AIG are responsible 
for the loss of the decking and should pay for its replacement. Mr Q has provided two quotes 
 the lower of these is at a cost of £5,141. I consider its fair and reasonable for AIG to pay 
this amount to Mr Q along with £300 in total for the upset and inconvenienced caused by the 
way they handled his claim.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Qs complaint. Im directing American International Group UK 
Limited trading as AIG UK to pay a total of £5,441 to Mr Q. This sum includes £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and an award for the cost of replacing the decking.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Clare King
Ombudsman