DRN-1012457
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined a claim he made under section 75 (S75) of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He says he bought an engine that was the wrong type. When 
he returned it, he only received a small refund.
What happened
Mr H bought an engine in February 2018. He paid £5,250 on his Santander credit card. Mr H 
says he realised once hed collected the engine that it was the wrong type. He says he 
returned the engine and received a refund of £50. He says he was told by the seller that the 
rest of the money would be refunded in the next few weeks. But, Mr H says this was never 
done.
Mr H contacted Santander and asked for a refund. In April 2019 Santander asked Mr H to 
provide it with various information. It asked Mr H to give it details of:
The original sales invoice
What exactly was ordered
Was it online?
What was delivered?
What specific type of engine, what for?
Why the item was ordered
Why the item was returned
Was it a bad bargain?
Proof of return
History of interactions with the merchant
History of any dispute with another business
 
Mr H responded and provided Santander with a receipt for the refund. He said he collected 
the engine himself. He said the engine was on the net. He said he ordered a 3.0 engine 
but got a 3.6. As far as Im aware, he didnt provide any other evidence or information. 
In May 2019, Santander contacted Mr H and said it didnt believe he had a valid claim under 
S75 as he had provided insufficient information and supporting evidence.
Mr H was unhappy and so bought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She said Mr H hadnt provided enough information to show if there had been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation, so she didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. Mr H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
My role isnt to decide whether the claim should succeed under S75 here. I need to decide 
what, if anything, Santander should do to resolve this complaint. I need to consider what I 
think is fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law. In this case, S75 is 
relevant to this complain.
S75 says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr H paid for goods or services on his credit card 
and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation, Santander can be held 
responsible. 
I think its reasonable to have expected Mr H to provide enough information and evidence to 
support his claim. When Santander asked for information from Mr H, he didnt provide all the 
details it requested. So Ive thought about the evidence Mr H did provide to Santander and 
whether this was enough for it to consider the S75 claim. 
Mr H provided two receipts for the refund. One shows the amount of £5,250 for the original 
transaction. And, both show a refund of £50. But, neither gives any details of what the 
original amount paid was for. And, neither gives any information about why the £50 was 
refunded. For example, the receipts dont say the refund was paid because the goods were 
returned. And, as far as Im aware, Mr H didnt give Santander any other evidence to show 
the engine was taken back. 
Ive also considered that Mr H didnt provide Santander with an invoice  so there was no 
evidence of what the money was originally paid for. And, he didnt answer all the questions it 
asked.
Thinking about this, I dont think Mr H provided Santander with enough information or 
evidence to allow it to properly investigate whether there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by not taking the claim further. 
When Mr H brought the complaint to this service, he provided some further evidence and 
information. Ive considered whether the details he provided are now enough to make me 
think he had a valid claim under S75.
Mr H has now provided an invoice for the engine. But, the address for the selling company is 
different to the address on the receipt that Mr H provided. The make of car that the engine is 
for is spelt incorrectly. And, the email address for the business is also spelt incorrectly. 
Thinking about this, I dont think its likely this is a genuine invoice for the goods Mr H says 
he bought. So, it follows Im also not satisfied this invoice is linked to the receipt Mr H 
provided.
Given the differing addresses on the invoice and receipt, I asked Mr H to tell me the exact 
address he picked the engine up from. But he didnt provide this information. 
Mr H was also asked where he saw the engine for sale. He said he saw it on line. I asked 
Mr H to send a link or details of the specific website where he saw this. But, he only said it 
was on a search engine and isnt available anymore. 
Mr H told us he noticed the problem with the engine when he was preparing to ship it abroad 
and then he returned it. But, I havent seen any proof that the engine was returned.Ive carefully considered everything that Mr H has said and provided. But, Im satisfied 
theres not enough information to say whether there has been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. So, I dont think Santander needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2019.
John Bower
Ombudsman