DRN-2232866
The complaint
Mrs T complained about what happened when she spoke to Homeserve Membership 
Limited to arrange a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs T phoned Homeserve to arrange a home emergency policy. She said that, during the 
phone call, the technology used by Homeserve sexually abused her. Mrs T complained to 
Homeserve. It reviewed the phone call and said that the call handler hadnt used any 
inappropriate language or tone and didnt find anything untoward during the call.
Mrs T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
had been unable to identify any issues with how Homeserve dealt with the phone call.
As Mrs T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mrs Ts explanation of what happened when she spoke to Homeserve to 
setup her policy. I can understand that she found it a distressing experience and wanted to 
raise this with Homeserve.
Ive looked at how Homeserve dealt with Mrs Ts complaint and I think that it took her 
concerns seriously and carried out an appropriate review. This included listening to the 
phone call to see if there were any issues with how the call handler dealt with Mrs T. Having 
done so, it didnt identify any issues.
So, I think that Homeserve took reasonable actions to try and address Mrs Ts concerns. I 
havent found any reason to ask it to do anything further.
Im also aware that Mrs T had concerns about the boiler health check/ service. But, as our 
investigator explained, this is outside the remit of this service because that didnt form part of 
the insurance policy. So, Im unable to comment on this any further.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint because I think that 
Homeserve acted reasonably in response to Mrs Ts complaint and was unable to identify an 
issue with the phone call. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Homeserve to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman