DRN-4189949
The complaint
Mr S complains about how AWP P&C SA handled his claim against his travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. He 
was on a trip when he became unwell with chest pains and shortness of breath. 
Mr S says that he took a test for Covid-19, which was negative. On 20 October 2022,   
Mr S contacted AWP, reported symptoms and said that he would seek medical 
assistance. Mr S says that AWP told him that if his claim was under £500, he could 
simply e-mail receipts. He says that AWP didnt mention that he should complete a claim 
form. 
Mr S had an on-line appointment with a doctor. He was prescribed antibiotics for a chest 
infection. 
Mr S says that on 21 October 2022, he took a second Covid-19 test and, this time, the 
result was positive. He says that he was confined to bed because of his symptoms and, 
in accordance with local guidance, he remained in his accommodation for five days. 
On 22 October 2022, Mr S sent AWP the invoice hed paid in relation to the on-line 
appointment with the doctor, the receipt from the pharmacy and his bank statement 
showing payment. Mr S hadnt received payment, so on 1 November 2022, he spoke 
with AWP again. Mr S says that he was told that he could claim for medical confinement 
benefit and simply needed to put the dates of confinement on the claim form. Mr S says 
that AWP didnt mention that he needed to provide any additional evidence. 
On 16 December 2022, AWP paid Mr S claim in relation to his medical and prescription 
costs. It didnt pay Mr S medical confinement benefit.
Mr S didnt think that was fair and pursued his complaint. AWP maintained its position in 
relation to medical confinement benefit. It relied on a special condition in the policy and 
said that it required evidence from a doctor that Mr S was confined to his 
accommodation due to Covid-19.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AWP had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr S claim for medical confinement benefit. That was because 
Mr S hadnt provided the evidence required by the policy. But the investigator thought 
that AWP could have handled the claim and complaint better. He thought that fair 
compensation for that was £100.
AWP accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr S didnt. He said, in summary:
When he first phoned AWP he didnt know that he could claim medical 
confinement benefit. It was only later that AWPs claims handler told him about 
that. But she didnt tell him that he needed to provide anything to support that 
claim. 
The public health organisation in the country he was visiting advised isolation for 
five days following a positive Covid-19 result, which is what he did.
He didnt seek out another doctor following his positive Covid-19 result, as theres 
no treatment for Covid-19. 
AWP said that he either needed to provide a picture of a Covid test or a doctors 
letter. 
He has pre-existing medical conditions which means he has a higher risk of 
complications from Covid-19 and he consulted a doctor when he had the main 
symptoms of Covid-19, so he doesnt understand why AWP isnt paying his claim 
for medical confinement benefit. 
It was only after he returned home that he was told that he could claim for five 
days medical confinement benefit and he provided what was asked of him. 
Compensation of £100 is insufficient. 
In a phone call, AWP told him that if he couldnt provide evidence of the positive 
Covid-19 test or a doctors record, he could provide evidence of the guidance in 
the country he was visiting.  
The investigator considered what Mr S said but didnt change his view. 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
24-hour emergency medical assistance
[] You must also tell us if your medical expenses are over £500. If you are claiming for a 
minor illness or accident you should, where possible, pay the costs and reclaim the money 
from us when you return.[]
Section 2  Emergency medical and associated expenses
What is covered
We will pay you up to £10 million for the following expenses which are necessarily incurred 
within 12 months of the incident as a result of your suffering unforeseen bodily injury, 
illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine (including being diagnosed with an epidemic 
or pandemic disease, such as COVID-19):
1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges incurred 
outside your home country.
[]
4. A medical confinement benefit of £50 a day (up to a maximum of £1,000) for every 
complete period of 24 hours you are admitted as an in-patient or are confined to your 
accommodation outside of your home country, on the advice of a treating doctor.
Special conditions relating to claims
[]
5. In addition to the General claims information required shown under the Making a claim 
section on page 51, where appropriate, you must also provide us with:
[]
c. written confirmation from the treating doctor of the dates and reasons you have to be 
confined on medical advice to a hospital or your trip accommodation;
has AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that AWP acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr S claim for medical confinement benefit but I think 
that it made errors in its handling of his claim. I say that because:   
When Mr S contacted AWP on 20 October 2022, he says he reported chest pains 
and shortness of breath. At that time, he hadnt tested positive for Covid-19 and there 
was nothing else to indicate that he was about to be confined to his accommodation. 
In those circumstances, I think the information AWP gave to Mr S  that  if his  claim 
was under £500, he could simply e-mail the receipts  was correct. I dont think that 
AWP needed to do any more at that point. 
Mr S hasnt provided evidence that he was confined to his accommodation on the 
advice of a treating doctor. Neither has he provided written confirmation from the 
treating doctor of the dates and reasons he was confined on medical advice to his 
trip accommodation. So, he hasnt satisfied the requirements of the policy. 
I dont think that I need to listen to recordings of phone calls between Mr S and AWP 
for the fair resolution of this complaint and Ill explain why. Mr S says that after he returned home and phoned AWP about his claim, it didnt tell 
him that he needed to provide supporting evidence. Whether or not AWP told Mr S 
what he needed to provide to support his claim, it remains the case that he cant 
provide the evidence thats required by the policy. 
In one of his responses to the investigators recommendation, Mr S says that in a 
phone call, AWP told him that if he couldnt provide evidence of his positive Covid-19 
test or a doctors record, he could provide evidence of the guidance in the country he 
was visiting. If Mr S was informed in those terms, it doesnt mean that AWP is obliged 
to settle his claim for medical confinement benefit. The policy doesnt provide medical 
confinement benefit on isolation in accordance with guidance. AWP requires medical 
evidence, which Mr S hasnt provided. It may have wished to consider alternative 
evidence but that doesnt mean it is obliged to settle that part of the claim. 
Mr S says that he saw a doctor when he had the main symptoms of Covid-19. But 
those symptoms are common to other illnesses. I dont think that AWP is required to 
waive the requirements in the policy in relation to medical evidence because Mr S 
was diagnosed with a chest infection and subsequently says that he tested positive 
for Covid-19.  
Mr S has also complained about how AWP handled his claim and complaint. Our 
service can only consider complaints about financial services. A complaint about 
complaint handling isnt a complaint about a financial service. So, I cant consider the 
additional points Mr S has raised about the handling of his complaint. But I can 
consider how AWP handled his claim. 
I think that AWP should have explained its reasons for declining Mr S claim in part, 
so that it was clear why it hadnt paid the claim for medical confinement benefit. And 
there was some delay in dealing with the claim. I think that caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience. I think fair compensation for that is £100. In considering whats fair, 
Ive taken into account the nature, extent, and duration of the service issues in this 
case.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should pay Mr S compensation of £100 in relation to his 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part. I now require AWP P&C SA to take 
the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman