DRN-4269212
The complaint
Mr M complains that Assurance General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has unfairly handled 
a claim made under his mobile phone insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr M or Assurant includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties. So, Ill summarise events.
Mr M holds mobile phone insurance with Assurant. And in November 2022 he made 
a claim under his policy. This related to a chip on the back of his phone. He said 
cosmetically this did not cause an issue for him, but he was concerned it may impact 
its waterproofing. 
Assurant accepted the claim, Mr M paid his £75 excess, and Assurant replaced the 
back and resealed the phone. 
In May 2023 Mr M said the phone fell into his bath into shallow water for a few 
seconds and suffered water damage. He made a second claim with Assurant, paid a 
second £75 excess, and the phone was replaced. Mr M spoke to Assurant at this 
time and it assured him on the phone that the waterproof seal wouldve been 
replaced during the first claim.
Mr M complained to Assurant, asking it to pay him £75 as a refund for the second 
excess as he believed the initial repair hadnt left the phone waterproof.
Assurant disagreed, saying the device wouldve gone through a 65-point quality 
check before being returned. And that it was repaired correctly so it was right for it to 
charge a second excess.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He 
said given the phones seal was repaired some six months earlier, it didnt appear the 
repair was effective and lasting. And while Assurant had put forward an argument to 
say the phones waterproofing may have been impacted by soap or high 
temperatures, this was purely speculative. So, he directed Assurant to pay Mr M £75.
Assurant said the temperature of a hot bath wouldve likely impacted the phone 
regardless of its earlier repair, the device being dropped may have also led to the 
ingress, and that there was no evidence the length of time the headset was 
submerged so this brought into question the likelihood the previous repair had failed.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy states Assurant will have the option to repair or replace a device when 
it is damaged or has broken down. Theres no dispute over the damage on either of 
the claims, so I dont need to make a finding on this point.
Assurant will be aware of the position of this Service that any replacement or repair 
during a claim should be effective and lasting.
Assurant has provided some of its internal notes from November 2022. These are 
brief and outline the device passed functionality tests. And having seen the list of 
checks, these include review of buttons, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and many others. 
I think its reasonable to expect that the phone being resealed previously would mean 
it is waterproof to its original condition. Assurant hasnt drawn my attention to any 
particular test on this list that would test waterproofing.
Assurant has instead said while the device is waterproof within limits, this was most 
likely impacted by high temperatures, presence of soap in the water or prolonged 
exposure to water. But its been unable to evidence this through technical opinion or 
a report of the phone. 
Assurant also has said the phone may have been damaged when the consumer 
dropped it  or that its use for a period after the first repair indicated it was 
successful. But again, it hasnt evidenced that any physical damage led to the water 
damage. And while I recognise Mr M had the phone for a time after the initial repair 
without issue, he has been clear in his testimony this was the first time the phone had 
entered water since the repair  and Ive found his testimony to be persuasive. 
Assurant has discussed the warranty provided by the phone manufacturer. But in this 
particular case I am focused on whether or not the original repair was effective and 
lasting  and in the circumstances, Im not persuaded it was. So Im directing 
Assurant to pay Mr M £75 to account for the second excess he incurred.
My final decision
Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay Mr M £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman