DRN-3642258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the Virgin One account they held with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS). They said their understanding was that the account was flexible, but 
RBS wanted to reduce their lending facility. Mr and Mrs E said they felt they had no choice 
but to sell their property and repay the outstanding balance as they felt threatened by RBS.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a Virgin One account in 2002, which is owned and administered by 
RBS. RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs E in 2014 to let them know that the mortgage was due to 
end in 2016. So RBS said they needed to start reducing the facility to make sure that the 
mortgage was paid on time. 
RBS reduced the facility to £30,358 in July 2014 and they told Mr and Mrs E that a further 
reduction in the facility would be made in July 2015. They said it would reduce further to 
£16,254.
In March 2015, Mr and Mrs E contacted RBS as they were concerned about the second 
reduction which was due to take place in July 2015. They explained that Mr E had to give up 
work at the time due to ill-health and that Mrs E was also suffering from ill health too. RBS 
advised Mr and Mrs E that they wouldnt go ahead with the reduction in July 2015.
Mr and Mrs E said they received a further letter from RBS in 2015 letting them know they 
could borrow more money on their facility if they wanted to. However, they didnt do this. 
Mr and Mrs E contacted RBS in 2016 to enquire about extending the term of the mortgage 
by ten years. After submitting an application, it was declined on affordability due to Mr Es 
age. RBS did however agree to extend the term to August 2017  to enable Mr and Mrs E to 
consider their options. 
Mr and Mrs E said they didnt feel in control and felt the facility could be reduced at any time, 
so they repaid the mortgage in 2016 following on from the sale of their property. 
In 2019, RBS contacted Mr and Mrs E letting them know they were carrying out a review of 
the repayment guide letters that had been sent out to customers like Mr and Mrs E  from 
2012 to 2015. They were also reviewing the reduction in the facility process. RBS said they 
didnt feel that Mr and Mrs E had been adversely affected by these letters, but they told Mr 
and Mrs E they could be considered as part of the review  which Mr and Mrs E agreed to.
After numerous telephone conversations and the investigation, RBS found that Mr and Mrs E 
had been caused some distress and worry by the letters about the reduction in their facility 
and offered £500 in recognition of this. 
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with this. They said RBS gave them no choice but to sell their 
home without being able to purchase another property. They said they incurred various costs 
including storage, estate agent, housing and solicitors costs  when this shouldnt have 
happened. 
After reviewing the information that Mr and Mrs E provided, RBS felt there had been an error 
in their complaint handling process, so they offered Mr and Mrs E a further £150.
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and thought that RBS had done enough to try and put things 
right for Mr and Mrs E. She couldnt find RBS responsible for Mr and Mrs E not being able to 
find another property to purchase and thought that RBS were reasonable at the time, by 
extending the term of the mortgage to 2017.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed. In summary they said:
The facility was to run until August 2015, and they were able to draw down at any 
time without any further approval by RBS. There were no set monthly payments and 
the only condition was that the facility needed to be repaid by August 2015 (later 
amended to 2016)
RBS said they were concerned about the account not reducing in line with the plan, 
but this was a breach of the terms and conditions which they signed up to when they 
took out the loan in 2002. RBS decision affected them. 
They sold their property because they knew that a further reduction in the facility 
would cause them issues and RBS were not willing to help them. The property wasnt 
selling as quickly as they hoped, and RBS decided not to reduce the facility further in 
July 2015
They received a letter from RBS in February 2016 about possible repossession as 
the term ended but RBS did extend the term to August 2017. After a discussion with 
estate agents they decided to put their property back on the market
Mr and Mrs E have also mentioned and supplied information following on from an article that 
stated the letters that RBS sent to their customers had been misinterpreted and hundreds of 
customers were to get refunds. 
As they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think RBS needs to do more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The concept of the Virgin One account was to provide flexible borrowing resource for 
consumers. It allowed additional borrowing up to a facility limit without the need for 
borrowers to have to go through further application processes. Mr and Mrs Es borrowing 
was on a capital and interest basis. The repayment of the capital and interest was entirely 
flexible and in the control of the borrowers, but it was also their responsibility to ensure they 
made enough payments throughout the term to repay the capital by the end of the borrowing 
term. 
From 2012 onward, RBS started reviewing the arrangements for this type of mortgage. They 
did this following the financial crash a few years earlier, after which the mortgage industry 
had concluded that accounts such as the Virgin One account where there was flexible 
lending and no reduction in the borrowing facility, represented a higher risk to borrowers 
than they had previously been thought to. As such, it was decided that borrowing limits 
should gradually be reduced to support the debt being paid off over the borrowing term. 
RBS contacted Mr and Mrs E in 2014 and RBS decided to reduce their lending facility to 
£30,358 and that they would need to reduce the facility by £1,035.85 per month in order for 
the loan to be repaid at the end of the term  which at that point was August 2016. I understand that Mr E explained that this wasnt possible as he hadnt been able to work 
due to ill health. The facility did reduce in 2014 and it was RBS intention that it would reduce 
again in 2015 so that the loan was paid off in time.
I can see that Mr E raised concerns that they wouldnt be able to manage with the reduction 
in July 2015 and RBS made the decision not to reduce the facility any further. 
Mr and Mrs E explained that in 2015, they felt they had no choice but to sell their property as 
at the time, they thought the facility was going to reduce in July 2015  which is what RBS 
told them initially. But after putting their property on the market, they were unable to sell it. 
I appreciate that this would have been a stressful and worrying time for Mr and Mrs E and I 
think RBS did the right thing by not reducing the facility further in July 2015.
I can see from the contact notes that Mr and Mrs Es term was originally meant to end in 
2011 but RBS extended this for a further five years  until 2016. As Mr and Mrs E were 
unable to sell their property at the time, they contacted RBS to ask for their term to be 
extended by a further ten years. RBS were unable to do so and said that it wasnt going to 
be affordable to Mr and Mrs E. RBS did however extend the term until 2017 to enable Mr 
and Mrs E to consider their options.
Having listened to the telephone calls that RBS provided, and the contact notes we have 
been provided with, it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs E had any solid plans to pay the loan 
off by the end of the term. They mentioned life policies that they had in place and said their 
children also might be able to help them. I think RBS gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient time for 
them to think about their options and put things in place so that the mortgage could be paid 
off by August 2017.
I know from what Mr and Mrs E have said, they were unable to obtain borrowing elsewhere 
and felt they had no choice but to sell their property and pay off the loan. The mortgage was 
redeemed in August 2016. They hold RBS responsible for this and feel that they had to sell 
their property and move to somewhere they didnt want to live. But their term was due to end 
in August 2016 initially  which was then extended further to August 2017. Mr and Mrs E 
didnt have any plans so repay this loan so I dont think it would be fair to hold RBS 
responsible for this. RBS were entitled to have the loan repaid as per the terms and 
conditions of the contract. 
Mr and Mrs E have said that RBS were in breach of the terms and conditions as they only 
had to ensure that the loan was paid off by the end of the term and they feel it was unfair for 
RBS to reduce their facility before the term end. But as Ive already explained, following on 
from the review that was conducted, RBS wanted to ensure that loans such as the one that 
Mr and Mrs E had  were in a position to be repaid by the end of the term. I think that RBS 
have acknowledged that reducing the facility in 2014 had an impact on Mr and Mrs E and 
they have offered them £500 in recognition for this  which I think is fair. 
I cant see that Mr and Mrs E have lost out financially by the actions of RBS. They didnt pay 
any further funds to the mortgage from savings or pensions which would have impacted their 
future planning. So I think the amount that RBS have offered is reasonable for the distress 
and inconvenience that Mr and Mrs E were caused. 
Mr and Mrs E said they sold their property because they felt threatened by RBS who sent 
them a letter letting them know their term was ending initially in 2016. And that they would 
commence legal proceedings if the loan wasnt paid off. I appreciate this would have been 
upsetting for Mr and Mrs E, but lenders will always notify borrowers of potential 
consequences if loans are not repaid in time. That said, the term had been extended to 2017 
but from what I can see, Mr and Mrs E still didnt have any concrete plans to repay the loan. 
This loan needed to be repaid by 2017. I understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs E didnt 
want to sell their property and they have explained that they incurred costs in relation to this. 
But I wont be asking RBS to refund any of these costs. Ultimately, this loan always had an end date so without any plans to repay this loan, I cant say that the costs that Mr and Mrs E 
were charged were because of a direct result of the actions that RBS took. 
RBS have agreed to pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs E 
and an additional £150 for how the complaint was handled which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs E, and recognise that this decision will be disappointing to 
them. But based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require RBS to pay 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the total amount of compensation the 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc have offered to pay Mr and Mrs E in connection with this matter, 
is fair and reasonable. They should pay them this money if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman