DRN-3870542
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service provided by Covea Insurance plc (Covea) under his 
home insurance policy following water leak damage to his property.
For the avoidance of doubt, Covea includes its representatives, agents, and contractors in 
this decision letter.
What happened
Mr P discovered there was a leaking pipe at his home in April 2022. He reported the matter 
to Covea and it advised him to call his own plumber to trace and stop the leak. It was found 
that that leak had been caused by a poorly fitted boiler pipe which appeared to have been 
leaking for a lengthy period. Mr P was unhappy because of the time it took for Covea to 
arrange for repairs to be carried out as the family had been left without a kitchen for a 
lengthy period during a time of difficult personal circumstances. Theyd also moved out of the 
house to temporary accommodation for three weeks. Covea didnt consider that it had 
handled the claim in an unfair or unreasonable manner, however it paid the sum of nearly 
£1,500 as a goodwill gesture as Mr P and his family had been without a kitchen.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. The investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and 
thought that Covea should have dealt with the claim much sooner. She noted that Covea 
had missed deadlines on several occasions and that Mr P had to chase progress and this 
added to the distress for Mr P and his family. She thought the delays were unreasonable for 
what was already a difficult time for Mr P and his family and that Covea hadnt 
acknowledged this. She thought it only fair that Covea now took some responsibility for the 
overall delays as Mr Ps insurer. 
It was the investigators view that Covea should deal with the repairs urgently and offer an 
additional amount in compensation. She recognised however that some of the delays were 
outside Coveas control, such as the need for drying of the property and asbestos testing. 
The investigator considered that Covea should now deal with the claim as a priority and 
keep Mr P updated at least weekly. 
Covea didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and the matter has now been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Covea had accepted Mr Ps claim under the terms and conditions of his home 
insurance policy. The question for me to determine is therefore whether Covea progressed 
Mr Ps claim in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont consider that it did so in all respects, 
and Ill explain why.
As to the submissions and evidence of the parties, I turn firstly to Mr Ps submissions. He 
said that the pipe had been leaking corrosive water onto the floor of the kitchen for about five 
years. He said he arranged for a report and a builders estimate as advised by Covea. Whilst 
he was arranging this, he said that Covea offered a cash settlement of £1,200 which he 
rejected, as he didnt know how this figure had been reached. He was then asked to send 
photographs and measurements to Covea, and by this time, hed received the builders 
repair estimate for £3,800. Mr P was then told that Covea wished to send an inspector to 
view the damage.
In August 2022, Mr P said that hed been out of the property for two weeks and that only a 
half-days work had been done. Half the kitchen had been removed and half of the asbestos 
tiles had been taken up. He complained that the family were due to move back to their home 
as one family member was having a serious medical operation the following week. Mr P had
contacted the company who were to remove the asbestos, but they couldn't give him any 
information as to progress. He didnt know what else he could do to get the work started or 
to be told the relevant timescales and he was concerned about the additional stress this 
would cause to the family member under-going treatment.
Mr P referred to other relevant health conditions suffered by family members and said that 
the builder had advised that there were harmful spores present. Mr P also said that the 
hallway and kitchen floors were unsafe and that parts had collapsed. He felt that Covea was 
stalling for time and that he was being fobbed off with a quick solution. He was worried that 
someone might get hurt due to the state of the property and referred to damp and black 
mould being present. He also said that the family was unable to use the kitchen and that 
they were having to use a microwave to cook. He considered hed been forgotten about and 
had a feeling that he would still be without a kitchen at Christmas. He also referred to having 
been stuck in a temporary caravan accommodation for a period when waiting for work to be 
done. He said that hed never claimed on home insurance before.
Finally, Mr P thought hed received a poor service from Covea and that he hadnt received 
adequate contact, call backs and information. He considered hed received conflicting and 
confusing messages in the summer of 2022 regarding asbestos. At the end of October, hed 
been told that work would commence towards the end of November 2022. Mr P said he 
waited in on the given date, but nobody turned up and he added that all I seem to be doing 
is chasing people and being told differently. I have had an emailtelling me they are waiting 
for a cash settlement...I dont understand what this is about as we have had our kitchen 
stripped out andwe have had the work tops left hanging and are now falling down. I am a 
little confused as to if we are getting our property repaired or if the company are giving us a 
pay out and not completing the work. In November 2022, Mr P said hed received a letter 
stating that his complaint had been resolved, however nothing had changed, that the 
complaint hadnt been resolved, and it had been 9 months since the start of the claim. 
In summary, Mr P considered that Covea had dragged their feet and used every excuse not 
to do the work. He said Covea had claimed it couldnt get hold of materials, then said it 
needed to get a team together and many weeks later, was saying that there was more work 
needed than expected. He said that Covea hadnt been back to the property since August 
2022 when it removed the dehumidifiers. Mr P said that his builder submitted a quote at the 
beginning of the claim and he considered that the claim would have been all sorted if Covea 
had accepted the quote: I dont understand why its taken so long and 3 different companies 
to get to where we are now and still no work has been done. Its frustrating me and upsetting 
my wife who just wants the house back to how it was.
I turn now to what Covea has said about the matter. Once certain requested information had 
been received from Mr P, it had reviewed the scope of work and initially offered a settlement 
figure. It said that as Mr P was undecided about this and further information was required, Covea decided it was best to appoint its own contractors to attend the property to inspect 
and review the extent of the damage and to progress the claim. It acknowledged that an 
insurance claims process could at times be frustrating, especially when you have damage to 
your property which needs to be repaired as soon as possible and it apologised for any 
distress or inconvenience caused by this.
In its final response letter in July 2022, Covea provided details of factors which influenced 
the claim process. In this case, it said it had to wait for asbestos testing and removal to take 
place, for drying to be completed and for collection of the policy excess to occur, prior to any 
work commencing. It said that collection of the excess at the start of the claim was standard 
procedure and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. It noted that as a good 
will gesture and to prevent delays, it was agreed that the policy excess here would be 
collected at a later stage. Whilst Covea agreed in hindsight that there had been delays, it 
didnt consider that the investigators proposed additional award of compensation was 
proportionate. 
Having carefully considered all available written evidence and the submissions of both 
parties, Im satisfied that whilst some of the delays in Covea resolving this claim were 
unavoidable, other delays were unfair and unreasonable. I agree with the investigator that 
the claim should have been progressed and co-ordinated sooner and the case notes indicate 
that from April to the end of June, there had been little significant progress.
Some delays can be expected where drying of a property is necessary as in this case, as 
well as where checking for asbestos becomes necessary. In such cases however, the 
timelines and any likely delays need to be fully explained to customers. Ive noted that 
Coveas detailed case notes record efforts to remove asbestos tiles, details of drying work 
and attempts to settle the matter. I dont consider from the available evidence that Covea 
had clearly or adequately communicated the position to Mr P throughout the claims journey.
In addition, its clear that a family member was due to have a serious operation, as well as 
on-going treatment. I consider that the delay, which is now acknowledged by Covea, would 
inevitably cause additional and unnecessary distress for Mr P and his family. This would 
have been exacerbated by communication failures. In the circumstances, I consider that 
£600 in additional compensation would be an appropriate figure to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused by these service failures by Covea during the relevant period.
It appears that the necessary works are still to be completed and its noted that Mr P has 
indicated that he wishes to lodge a further complaint in this respect. Nevertheless, a 
complaint about delays beyond the date of Coveas official response to Mr Ps original 
complaint is outside the scope of the current decision letter. In the circumstances, its 
confirmed that this final decision letter deals only with Mr Ps original complaint and the initial 
period of his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint against Covea Insurance plc and 
require it to pay compensation in the total sum of £600 to Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Coveas service failures.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman