DRN-1894807
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Oakbrook Finance Limited settled his loan.
What happened
Details of Mr C's complaint along with my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 May 2020. in my provisional decision I explained why i intended to uphold 
Mr C's complaint and what Oakbrook should do to resolve matters. I said:
What happened
In February 2019 Mr C borrowed £4,000 from Oakbrook. On 10 April 2019 Mr C asked
Oakbrook to amend his direct debit collection date to the 1st of the month.
On 16 April 2019 Mr C called for a settlement quote and was told that as long as he made
the payment due on 18 April 2019 of £303.85, he would have to pay £3,990.41. But when
Oakbrook sent Mr C a settlement quote it asked him to pay £3,686.56. Oakbrook has since
said that information was wrong and Mr C needed to also make a payment on 1 May 2019 of 
£303.85 to settle with a figure of £3,686.56.
On 30 April 2019 Mr C made a payment of £3,686.56 and thought his loan had been repaid.
But a further payment was collected from Mr C on 1 May 2019. Mr C called Oakbrook and
obtained a refund of the additional payment he made.
Oakbrook later asked Mr C to repay the £303.85 payment it refunded on 10 May 2019 and
he complained. Oakbrook sent Mr C its final response on 1 July 2019 and upheld his
complaint. Oakbrook accepted that Mr C had been given the wrong advice about what he
needed to pay to ensure his loan was fully redeemed and that the payment collected on 1
May 2019 should not have been refunded. Oakbrook agreed that Mr C had been given
incorrect advice by several of its agents and offered to refund any bank charges he incurred. 
Oakbrook said Mr C had thirty days to repay the missing £303.85 otherwise it would reopen 
his loan and start reporting information about it to the credit reference agencies.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought
Oakbrook had dealt with Mr C fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked to
appeal as he still isnt persuaded that he owes the £303.85 Oakbrook claims. Mr C also
pointed out that the situation had led to adverse information being reported on his credit file
which he didnt think was fair. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand why Mr C is upset. Oakbrook has made several mistakes and given him
very unclear information about what he owes. I can completely understand why Mr C didnt
immediately accept that he needed to repay the £303.85 Oakbrook refunded after his loan
was repaid. I also note that a dispute about how a loan has been settled has now
significantly impacted Mr Cs credit file. I need to consider whether thats proportionate, fair
and accurate.
As Ive said above, Ive reached a different decision to the investigator. I think Mr Cs
complaint should be upheld. Im going to begin by looking at what Oakbrook says Mr C
needs to pay.
When Mr C first called Oakbrook for a settlement figure, the advisor told him he needed to
pay £3,990.41 to settle in full. But when the settlement figure was sent to Mr C it had
reduced to £3,686.56. Oakbrook has explained that its system factored the £303.85 monthly
payment that was due on 1 May 2019 into account when it gave that figure.
Mr C then settled on 30 April 2019, the day before his direct debit for 1 May 2019 was
collected. Whilst I understand why Mr C thought his 1 May 2019 payment needed to be
refunded, I dont agree that was the case. Im satisfied the £303.85 1 May 2019 payment
formed part of the total settlement figure required to repay Mr Cs loan in full. However,
because of the various mistakes Oakbrook made, I can completely understand why Mr C
didnt trust Oakbrooks subsequent claim that he needed to repay £303.85.
Our approach to resolving complaints is that we try to put the consumer back into the
position they would have been in, had no error been made. In this case, if Oakbrook had
correctly and clearly explained what Mr C needed to pay to settle his loan, it would have
been with a repayment figure of £3,990.41, not £3,686.56. Im satisfied that Mr C does owe
Oakbrook the disputed £303.85.
However, Im concerned that this situation will have a long lasting impact on Mr Cs credit
file. I dont think the impact of the information Oakbrook has reported accurately reflects
what happened or how Mr C handled his loan. Ive already said that I can understand why
Mr C didnt simply accept the 1 May 2019 payment needed to be repaid. Instead, he referred 
his complaint to our service for an independent review, in line with his rights.
Unfortunately, this has affected the length of time the situation has gone unresolved as Mr
Cs complaint has been subject to our wait times and independent investigation. As a result,
Oakbrook has reported adverse information about the outstanding payment to the credit
reference agencies. Had Oakbrook not made several errors when explaining the redemption 
figure to Mr C I dont doubt he would have paid the correct figure as requested. If that had 
happened, Mr Cs credit file wouldnt have been affected.
Mr C has now referred his complaint for an impartial review. My decision is going to be that
he does owe £303.85 to Oakbrook. But if Mr C repays the disputed amount, I intend to tell
Oakbrook to delete all adverse credit it has reported and amend the settlement date to 30
April 2019 (the day the loan should have settled). If Mr C is unwilling to repay the £303.85
then Im not going to tell Oakbrook to amend his credit file.
Ive also thought about the service provided by Oakbrook in this case. I note Oakbrook said
it would refund any bank charges Mr C incurred as a result of its errors but Im not
persuaded that goes far enough.
Oakbrook accepts that several staff members made mistakes that led to incorrect
information about settlement figures being provided. In addition, Im satisfied these issues
have unfairly impacted Mr Cs credit file. I don't think Oakbrook's offer is fair in thecircumstances of Mr C's complaint. I'm satisfied Mr C has received poor service, incorrect
advice and that, as a direct result, he didn't feel able to trust the information he was given.
Given the issues raised and what he's told us, I think a figure of £200 fairly reflects the
impact of Oakbrook's errors on Mr C.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to take into account before I made my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Oakbrook have responded to confirm that they accept the provisional 
decision I made on 21 May 2020. 
Oakbrook said it would delete the adverse information reported to the credit reference 
agencies and amend the settlement date if Mr C pays it £303.85 within 30 days of 
acceptance. It also confirmed it will pay Mr C £200. 
Mr C confirmed he would repay the £303.85 within 30 days of acceptance if Oakbrook also 
agreed. I can confirm that both Mr C and Oakbrook have agreed to proceed based on my 
provisional decision. Once Mr C accepts this final decision the outcome becomes legally 
binding on Oakbrook. So there is no option for it to reconsider or retract its agreement to 
proceed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited to settle as 
follows:
If Mr C repays the outstanding £303.85 within 30 days of acceptance, Oakbrook will
remove all adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies and amend
the settlement date to 30 April 2019.
Oakbrook to pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman