DRN-4035486
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not pay him credit interest on 
his 123 account. 
What happened
Mr M opened a 123 account in 2021. In 2022, Mr M discovered that he was not receiving 
credit interest on his account. Mr M says that the advert for the account was mis-leading. He 
believes that Santander should refund him the interest that he missed out on. 
Santander say that the reason why no interest was earned was because Mr M paid in a lump 
sum, but did not credit the account with £500 or set up two direct debits, which was a 
requirement of the account to earn interest. Santander also says that Mr M was informed of 
the criteria when he opened the account and his monthly bank account statements wouldve 
shown that he was not earning interest. One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ms complaint 
and didnt uphold it. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance the main things for me to consider are whether Santander made Mr M aware 
of the criteria for earning interest; whether Mr M no longer met the criteria; and whether 
Santander did what it was obliged to do in relation to informing Mr M that he was no longer 
meeting any criterion. 
I should also clarify that as an independent and impartial service I can only recommend that 
Santander refund interest if it has done something wrong. In relation to the notification of the 
criteria for earning interest, I can see that these were listed on Santanders website (based 
on a saved copy of Santanders website from the time the account was sold), in the terms 
and conditions of the account and on Mr Ms monthly bank statements. So I think Santander 
did enough to inform Mr M on how to earn interest.
I am satisfied that Mr M did not meet the terms for earning interest as I can see that the 
criteria for earning interest states that two active direct debits are required alongside a 
monthly credit of £500 for interest to be earned. So overall I am satisfied that Mr M did not 
meet the criteria to earn interest. 
The next thing to consider is whether Santander did enough to inform Mr M that he was not 
earning interest. I can see that on the monthly account statements posted to Mr M in the 
interest earned section it stated that no interest was being earned. Additionally, directly 
under this section it states the criteria for earning interest. Given this I think that Santander 
has done what it was required to do. 
Because of this, I dont think Santander should pay Mr M the interest he couldve earned. So 
overall Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman