The complaint
Mr Es complaint concerns his motorcycle insurance policy with Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited. He complains that it refused to provide cover for his new motorcycle and, 
following cancellation of the policy, insisted that he had to pay the whole premium. 
Advantage is the underwriter of Mr Es policy. Reference to Advantage includes reference to 
its agents. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr E took out motorcycle policy with Advantage. He entered into a 
separate credit agreement in order to pay the premium monthly. In April 2019, Mr E changed 
his motorcycle and Advantage asked him to pay an additional premium. Mr Es monthly 
payments increased.  
In June 2019, Mr E told his broker that hed changed his motorcycle. Advantage said it 
couldnt offer cover for the new motorcycle. Mr Es policy was cancelled and Advantage 
asked him to pay the remaining amount of the premium  it didnt offer to waive the monthly 
payments for the remaining months until the end of the policy in November 2019. 
In response to Mr Es complaint, Advantage said that it made its cancellation terms clear at 
the outset. It also said that it couldnt offer him cover for his new motorcycle. 
Mr E says that as Advantage wouldnt offer him cover for his new motorcycle, he had to seek 
cover elsewhere. He said initially that he thought it was unfair that Advantage wouldnt offer 
insurance. Mr E doesnt think its fair that he has to pay the outstanding amount. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mr E had already 
changed his motorcycle when he contacted his broker in June 2019 and Advantage decided 
that it couldnt offer cover for the new motorcycle  which it is entitled to do. The investigator 
said that the terms of Mr Es policy say that he should tell the broker if he intends to change 
his motorcycle and that not all changes may be acceptable to the insurer. He said that 
Advantage set out its terms on cancellation clearly.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he accepts that Advantage can decide 
what risks it accepts but he doesnt accept that it can then charge him the remainder of the 
premium. Mr E asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1068218I can see why Mr E thought that Advantage would offer cover for his new motorcycle, as 
thats what it had done previously. However, as the adjudicator explained, and as I think  
  Mr E now accepts, Advantage isnt obliged to offer cover. When offering cover, insurers 
take into consideration a very large number of risk rating factors. Its not down to me to tell 
Advantage  what factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not 
something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
Advantage has provided me with information to show how it came to the decision about not 
offering cover for Mr Es new motorcycle. That information is commercially sensitive, so I 
can't share it with Mr E but Ive looked at it carefully. Im satisfied that Advantage treated    
Mr E in the same way as it would treat other policyholders in similar circumstances. So, I 
dont think that Advantage treated Mr E unfairly in refusing to offer cover for his new 
motorcycle. 
When Mr Es policy was cancelled, he was asked to pay the remaining premium. Advantage 
set out how it would deal with cancellation in its Guide to cover  and in its terms and 
conditions. It set out a table, which showed what proportion of premium would be refunded 
on cancellation. Because of the number of months Mr Es cover had run (November 2018 to 
June 2019), no refund was due to him. The Guide to cover  also said that if the instalments 
that had already been paid didnt cover whats due, the policyholder would need to pay the 
balance. I dont think that Advantage acted unfairly in relying on its terms and conditions, 
which were set out clearly at the outset. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman