DRN-1819359
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
This complaint is about eighteen loans Sunny provided to Mr D between February 2018 and 
July 2019. All the loans were originally set up to be repaid in 6 monthly instalments.
Heres a table setting out details of the first nine loans:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount
 Monthly* repayment 
due (approx.)
1
15/02/2018 25/02/2018 £150£37.11
2
27/03/2018 02/05/2018 £450£149.34
3
01/09/2018 24/09/2018 £300£90.18
4
08/09/2018 24/09/2018 £100£118.94
5
29/09/2018 05/10/2018 £300£90.74
6
08/10/2018 24/10/2018 £300£86.28
7
10/10/2018 24/10/2018 £100£114.67
8
02/11/2018 23/11/2018 £250£74.39
9
01/12/2018 20/12/2018 £250£75.03*this shows the approximate combined total repayment amount where loans overlap 
Mr D mainly said that Sunny ought to have known that he couldnt afford to repay the loans, 
and that in order to do so hed have to borrow further loans (often from other payday 
lenders) in order to make the repayments, which resulted in trapping him in a debt spiral.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that whilst he hadnt seen enough 
to say that loans 1  8 had been unfair, Sunny shouldnt have given Mr D loan 9 or any 
further loans after that. He set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for 
Mr D. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said. Amongst other things, Sunny said 
that after just ten months borrowing it was too soon to say that Mr D had become dependent 
on Sunny loans. And, although not long enough to suggest a potential change in 
circumstances, that the gap between loans 2 and 3 didnt support this conclusion. Sunny 
also said that the loan repayments were always a reasonable proportion of Mr Ds income 
and this indicated that the lending was affordable for him.
But after further consideration, Sunny said it had looked again at Mr Ds overall usage and 
recognised that it shouldve made further enquiries into his financial situation. So Sunny 
made an offer to settle the complaint from loan 15 onwards.
We passed on details of this offer to Mr D but it hasnt led to the complaint being settled. So 
it comes to me to make a final decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive kept this in mind when thinking about this 
complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr D. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Ds credit file.
Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr D said about his income and 
expenses when he took out these loans. 
Looking at the repayments that Mr D needed to make on loans 1-4, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts (even where the loans overlapped), what was apparent about 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr D for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think Sunny should have looked further into Mr Ds circumstances by the time he took 
out loan 5  and when he asked for further loans after this. But I havent seen anything in the 
information available to me which shows that, had it done so, Sunny wouldve decided this 
loan (or the loans that followed) looked unaffordable. 
So I agree with our adjudicator about loans 1-8 and I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
these loans. As it seems Mr D hasnt objected to what our adjudicator has said, then I don't 
think I need say more about loans 1-8. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
I think by loan 9 Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. I say this because:
by now, Sunny could see signs that Mr D wasnt managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Although the loan amounts had been variable, and some earlier loans 
had been for bigger amounts, loan 9 was significantly bigger than loan 1. And only 
two loans had been for less than the amount hed first borrowed. I think this indicated that overall his financial circumstances hadnt improved and he had ongoing money 
problems
 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr D before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into his debt. By loan 9, hed already established a repeat pattern of 
borrowing again soon after early repayment of previous loans (even disregarding 
loans 1 and 2)
 
although Mr D repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying 
his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing 
and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Ds finances were 
not in a stable position  
 
by loan 9, Sunny ought to have known that Mr D probably wasnt borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in income and that he wasnt using the loans for their intended 
purpose. 
 
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 9 onwards 
when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Ds ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 9 - 18 and Sunny should put things right.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Sunny has said, including 
comments made in response to what our adjudicator said. But this doesnt change my 
overall view. For the reasons I've explained, his pattern of borrowing and repaying this 
number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Ds finances were not in a stable position and 
he was struggling to manage his debt.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 9 - 18, not including anything already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr D the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 D. The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 9 - 18 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ds credit file.  
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint about loans 9 - 18. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out above to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman