DRN-3789370
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined a 
claim under her buildings insurance policy following water damage to her property.
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs W noticed black marks on the skirting board of her utility room. She 
wiped these away, however the marks reappeared a few days later. She said she contacted 
AA as soon as she peeled back the wallpaper and saw damp underneath the wallpaper. AA 
advised Mrs W to contact a plumber or builder to perform trace and access work to locate 
the source of the problem. Mrs W did so, and the workman removed floor tiles, discovered a 
burst pipe and carried out the repair. Mrs W updated AA and it arranged for its surveyor to 
assess the damage a few days later.
AA said that its surveyor submitted a report which confirmed the presence of damp on the 
walls and provided photographic evidence of this. AA said that the report indicated that 
mould had spread across the walls and door frame of the room. As the leak was found 
underneath the floor tiling, it thought that this was not a one-off event but that the leak and 
damage had occurred gradually.
Mrs W said that while the leak had been repaired, she wanted the damage caused by water 
and also the trace and access damage to be repaired and for the cost to be covered by her 
AA policy. Mrs W said that the floor pipes were still exposed, and the walls were damp. AA 
declined Mrs Ws claim for this damage. She then complained to AA however it maintained 
its position and so she referred her complaint to this service.
The investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint and said that the service would expect an insurer 
to show that the consumer had knowledge or should have had knowledge of the damage for 
some time before contacting them. He didnt think this was the case here or that the 
photographs clearly showed mould on the door frame and he noted that some had been 
taken after wallpaper and tiles had been removed. He thought that AA should re-assess Mrs 
Ws claim without the gradual damage exclusion clause and pay her £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, as she had to live with exposed floor pipes for six months.
AA didnt agree with the investigators decision. The matter has therefore been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine here is whether AA acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
in its application of the terms and conditions of the insurance policy in declining Mrs Ws 
claim. I consider that AA hasnt acted in a fair and reasonable manner in this instance.
My starting point is the policy wording and I note that it covers escape of water in principle. 
It states that AA will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by water as a result of a 
burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or heating installation, appliance or piping. This 
includes damage to any water installation caused by freezing or bursting. We will also pay 
up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed in advance for locating the source of the 
damage including the reinstatement of any wall, flooring or ceiling removed or damaged 
during the search. 
The policy then contains some standard exclusions from cover. This includes the following: -
General Exceptions - The policy does not insure the following... Loss or damage arising 
from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or 
similar causes.
Turning to what the parties say about the matter, Mrs W said that when the black marks 
reappeared on the skirting board, wallpaper was removed to further investigate the matter 
further. She said this revealed mould and water damage underneath. She hadnt noticed the 
damp walls until shed lifted the wallpaper. She said she didnt know the source of the water 
at this stage. Mrs W said that any photographs taken by AAs surveyor would have been 
taken after the wallpaper had been removed. She said that the surveyor had suggested that 
AA would arrange for dryers to be sent to her home, but this didnt happen. 
Turning to what AA has said about the matter, it explained in its final response letter to Mrs 
W that insurance policies didnt cover every eventuality. It said that its very common for 
insurance policies to exclude cover for damage caused gradually over time and its policy 
included such a clause. It thought that damage to the doorframe would have been visible to 
Mrs W earlier. It said The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out guidance that states 
that in the event of an insurer repudiating a claim under the gradually operating clause, the 
insurer must also show that the policy holder would have been reasonably aware of the 
damage occurring. Here, it thought that Mrs W should have been aware of the leak. 
Although the walls were covered with wallpaper, it was peeling off and AA said the door 
frame showed visible mould. It considered that there was early evidence of a leak which 
should have been raised with it sooner. 
Looking at AAs case notes, they noted initially, Leak was under floor can see replaced pipe 
so a valid Escape of water. The case-notes also referred to Adv PH to get quotes and 
images for the T&A. Make sure that they are reasonable and necessary. If we can validate, 
we would then look to reimburse these costs. But do not cover the cost of the fixing of the 
leak. As to the photographic evidence, AA said that this showed that, The section of the 
wall which juts out and next to a cupboard in the kitchen clearly shows mould growing on 
inner section of the wall. Also, The delamination of the wallpaper in the utility room would 
have also been a good indicator of a gradual operating clause.
Turning to the report of the surveyors instructed by AA, it provided a summary of the internal 
damage as follows Policyholder had damp up the walls, she only noticed when the 
wallpaper was starting to come away from the walls, she called a plumber to source any 
leaks and he could not find anything, she called a builder and he traced the leak to under the 
floor where a water pipe was leaking.. It also recommended four weeks of drying.
Having considered all photographic and written evidence, together with the submissions 
of the parties, Ive noted that the photographs show quite severe mould and water 
staining in the utility room and that there are black marks in the door frame recess. It also 
seems the wallpaper was peeling away from the wall. I consider that the peeling wallpaper 
and damp behind it would have become increasingly noticeable and so, this to be a finely 
balanced judgment as to when the extent of the problem should have been noticed.AA has itself set out the services approach in relation to gradual damage and it has 
recognised that the leak had occurred underneath floor tiling. On balance I consider that 
the leak damage was largely hidden, and Im satisfied that Mrs W couldnt reasonably 
have been aware of the damage occurring until the utility room walls became quite 
damp. As the leak was under the floor, damage would not have been immediately 
obvious. Im therefore satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mrs W didnt see any 
signs of the leak until the wallpaper in her utility room started to peel so that she lifted the 
wallpaper and saw the damage. Im satisfied that Mrs W then quickly contacted AA about 
her concerns. I therefore agree with the investigator that its more likely than not that she 
hadnt appreciate that there was a leak until that point. In the circumstances, I consider that 
AA hadnt applied the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy and treated Mrs W in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
In conclusion, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in relation to her claim for escape of water under 
her buildings insurance policy. I also require AA to pay compensation of £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs J in having to pursue this matter for many months and 
having to live with exposed floor pipes and damp walls for this time.
 .
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in the provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
against AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. I therefore require AA to:
- carry out the necessary repairs and drying or pay Mrs W for the cost of these repairs and 
drying (following provision by Mrs W of a receipt or invoice) less any relevant excess 
amount, within 28 days of her acceptance of this final decision.
- to pay Mrs W compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman