DRN-4218958
The complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has only refunded half the money she lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
While in Turkey, Miss Ws son had become friendly with someone who claimed to be a 
dealer in Rolex watches (Ill refer to them as R). 
R was staying in the same hotel. He appeared to be wealthy and apparently had people 
visiting to buy watches from him regularly.
R messaged Miss W. He said he had a watch that hed sell to her for a discount and that she 
could make a quick profit on. 
The watch was a gold Ladies Rolex and R sent some photos. R said hed paid £22,500 for it. 
If Miss W gave him £16,000 for the watch, he was confident it would be resold within four 
weeks for £2,000 profit.
He gave Miss W account details for a personal bank account belonging another person. He 
told Miss W this person was a jeweller. Miss W sent this person a payment of £16,000 from 
her Lloyds account. However, after four weeks R told Miss W the watch hadnt sold. 
Eventually R blocked her on social media and Miss W realised shed been scammed.
Lloyds tried to recover her money, but by the time Miss W had reported the scam, nothing 
remained in the beneficiary account.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code), which provides additional protection to scam victims against the impact of 
authorised push payment scams (such as this was). Lloyds said it could have done more to 
protect Miss W from the risk of fraud or scams by identifying that the payment was unusual 
for her. But it thought Miss W could have taken more care before sending the payment. It 
therefore said it would share the loss equally with Miss W, and it refunded £8,000 to her 
account  half the loss.
Miss W asked our service to look into the matter. Our Investigator thought Lloyds had 
treated Miss W in line with the CRM Code. He couldnt fairly ask Lloyds to pay her more than 
it already had. He said there had been little to show the watch was genuine or that the 
person she was paying was a jeweller. The deal Miss W was offered was too good to be 
true. 
Miss W disagreed. She said that when shed made the payment in 2022, the pandemic had 
changed things, and this needed to be taken into account. The scam had a terrible impact on 
her and had affected her health both physically and mentally.
In light of this disagreement, the case was referred to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about whats happened to Miss W. Its clear that shes been through an 
extremely difficult time as a result of the scam. I understand that the loss of this money has 
had a significant impact on her health.
However, despite my natural sympathy for Miss W, my role here is confined to considering 
whether Lloyds can be held fully responsible for her loss. The starting point in law is that 
Miss W is responsible for payments shes authorised herself. And theres no dispute about 
whether she made the payment here. 
Lloyds accepts it should have recognised that this was a significantly out of character 
transaction for her. It says it could have therefore done more to protect her. Under the CRM 
Code, when a bank is at fault, it will usually need to accept responsibility for at least part of 
the loss.
But the bank wont be required to refund in full if it can show that its likely the customer 
made the scam payment without having held a reasonable basis for believing they were 
paying who they thought they were paying or for believing they were buying genuine goods 
from a genuine seller.
Lloyds says that applies here, and so it says it is fair that it and Miss W should equally share 
the loss. Ive carefully reviewed everything to see whether I agree.
Firstly, I appreciate why Miss W thought this might be genuine. Her son apparently knew R, 
and hed had told Miss W about him. R appeared to be wealthy, and Miss W explains he had 
his own Rolex. She thought he seemed to be selling and trading in Rolex watches. So, she 
thought he must be telling her the truth when he said hed sell her a watch.
However, I think the deal he was offering was too good to be true. He said he was selling her 
a watch for a lot less than hed paid. He guaranteed she couldnt lose money on the deal. 
She was being offered thousands of pounds in profit within just a few weeks with no risk and 
no effort. I think Miss W should have had doubts about how this could be true.
R provided photos of what he said was the watch. But this wasnt good evidence he actually 
had it, or that it was legitimate rather than counterfeit or stolen.
R told Miss W to pay someone directly, who he said was a jeweller. However, this account 
was a personal account. It wasnt in the name of a jewellery company. There was nothing 
(besides what R said) to connect the person Miss W was paying with the watch or with them 
being a jeweller. The story R gave was inconsistent too. He said hed already paid £22,500 
for the watch and was now trying to sell it. That doesnt fit with the need to pay the jeweller 
rather than R.
In short, Miss W had put a huge amount of trust in someone she seems to have known only 
remotely, and when she sent this payment it was going to someones account whom shed 
never met or spoken to. 
Given all of this, I think Miss W should have had serious doubts about going ahead. I think 
Rs story wasnt credible and what he was offering was too good to be true. All in all, Im 
satisfied Lloyds has established that she made the payment with a reasonable basis for 
believing she was paying a genuine seller for a legitimate item. In saying this, Ive thought carefully about what Miss W says about her circumstances at the 
time. She was away from home, and as she notes, the pandemic had affected many aspects 
of everyones lives. This money was an inheritance following the loss of her parents, making 
it even harder to lose the funds. I dont underestimate the horrendous impact this scam has 
had on her. But the evidence doesnt lead me to think Miss W was unable to have protected 
herself at the time. Her situation now, and her health concerns are mainly a result of the 
scam and the cruel betrayal of her trust by R, rather than the cause.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds should pay her more than it has done for any other 
reasons. The beneficiary bank has confirmed that by the time Miss W reported the scam to 
Lloyds, all of the money shed sent had been moved on from that account. That meant it 
would never have been possible for Lloyds to recover any of Miss Ws money (though I can 
see it tried). I dont think there was anything more Lloyds could have done here. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing for Miss W, but I dont find Lloyds needs to pay 
her more than it already has paid. I think it is fair for the loss to be shared equally between 
Lloyds and Miss W. That means I wont be asking the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman