DRN-3768109
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard sent a letter to her old 
address and provided poor customer service when she called.
What happened
Miss R made a complaint to Barclays about irresponsible lending. Barclays issued a final 
response and sent to to Miss R at her old address, even thought Miss R had advised 
Barclays that she had moved.
Miss R complained to Barclays about the fact that the letter had been sent to her old 
address. In response Barclays acknowledged that it had provided poor customer service and 
paid compensation of £50.
Miss R remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Barclays response to the 
complaint had been reasonable and that the compensation paid was fair.
Miss R didnt agree. She said the letter which had been sent to her old address contained 
sensitive personal information and that shed been caused distress as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays doesnt dispute that it fell below the standard of customer service expected when it 
sent its final response letter to Miss Rs old address. So I wont look further into whether 
theres been an error but instead Ill focus on the impact of the error and whats a reasonable 
resolution.
Barclays has said that as soon as the error was brought to its attention, it reported the data 
breach to the relevant department internally. Ive seen evidence from Barclays that the 
breach was investigated and recorded in accordance with internal procedures.
I appreciate that Miss R feels that Barclays shouldve reported the breach to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). Barclays has said it didnt consider the breach to be serious 
enough to do this.
Ive thought about the seriousness of the breach. In doing so, Ive had regard to the relevant 
guidance on when breaches should be reported to the ICO. Generally, its necessary to notify 
the ICO if a breach is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of an individual. 
Ive reviewed the final response letter. It doesnt contain any account information, or other 
information which could result in a risk to Miss Rs financial affairs. The letter does make 
reference to Miss Rs previous personal experiences and I understand why Miss R would 
find it distressing to think that someone else might have read this part of the letter. 
Ive thought about the impact that the breach had on Miss R. Although the letter was sent to 
the wrong address, theres no evidence that anyone read the letter, or contacted Miss R 
about the contents, or published the contents anywhere. So, whilst I understand that Miss R 
wouldve been distressed about the situation, theres no evidence to suggest that theres 
been a serious ongoing impact.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Barclays has responded fairly to this 
complaint about the breach. I wont be asking it to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman