DRN-3301964
The complaint
Ms G complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
At the relevant times, Ms G had home insurance underwritten by Soteria. This covered 
damage to her buildings, amongst other things.
Ms G made a claim in March 2012, after her house was broken into and a fire was started 
which caused very considerable damage. The house effectively had to be re-built.
Ms G isnt happy with the way that claim was handled. She says there have been long 
delays in the work, primarily caused by the decision to re-build the house on the existing 
foundations.
She says Soteria havent adequately covered the costs for landscaping outside her home 
after the re-build was completed. And shes unhappy that they ceased to pay for her 
alternative accommodation too soon. 
She also says Soteria continued to charge her for insurance during the re-build, when it 
wasnt necessary. And they were responsible for the premature and unannounced 
certification of the re-build, which cost her the chance to reclaim VAT and meant she had to 
pay Council Tax sooner than she should have.
She was also unhappy that when new gates were stolen from outside the house, before 
theyd been installed, that was treated as a new claim and a further excess was charged.
Ms G made a complaint to Soteria. And when they didnt uphold it, she brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Soteria had acted fairly and reasonably in offering 
to refund Ms Gs premiums for the period when the policy wasnt appropriate for her needs. 
But he thought that otherwise Soteria had done nothing wrong.
Ms G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator  and for much the same reasons. So, 
Im not going to go into great detail here to cover off every issue Ms G has raised with us in 
the course of our handling of this complaint. Both Ms G and Soteria are very familiar with the 
background to this complaint and with the issues that its raised.
The most important thing to say, from the outset, is that very soon after the fire and the claim 
to Soteria, Ms G appointed her own loss assessor to deal with the claim on her behalf. That 
loss assessor was working for Ms G, not for Soteria. And Soteria arent responsible for 
decisions made by the loss assessor or for the loss assessors actions.
In essence, Soteria accepted Ms Gs claim. Ms G then appointed her loss assessor. And the 
loss assessor took responsibility for planning and managing the re-building of the house 
(including the application for planning permission, which I understand may have been 
subject to some delay). From that point on, Soteria received and approved costs submitted 
by the loss assessor but took no other part in planning or arranging the work.
Ms G says that much of the delay in re-building her house resulted from the decision to re-
build on the existing foundations. In fact, that decision was the loss assessors decision. 
They appointed a structural engineer, whose report said that the existing foundations could 
sensibly be used. Any delays caused by that decision arent Soterias fault.
Ms Gs house has certainly taken an excessive amount of time to re-build. Im sure that must 
have been very frustrating and stressful for her. But I cant see that any of the delays are 
Soterias responsibility. The loss assessor managed the project and took responsibility for all 
aspects of the work, including appointing the builder.
Ms G says the builder proved not to be up to the task. And, indeed, went out of business 
before the works were completed. But the decision to appoint that builder was made by the 
loss assessor, who was acting on Ms Gs behalf. Again, the delay thats caused is not 
Soterias fault.
I can also see from the claim records provided by Soteria that any delays in communication 
between themselves and the loss assessor over costs, approval of expenditure and/or 
payments, appear not to have been Soterias fault. 
In fact, there were several occasions when Soteria were pressing the loss assessor for 
information or documentation to allow progress to be made. And I can see that Soteria 
closed the claim in 2017 after theyd contacted the loss assessor on several occasions for 
confirmation that the work which was covered by the claim had been completed. 
Any confusion around this issue may have been due to the fact that Ms G altered the 
specifications for the re-build on a number of occasions, in essence to make the property 
better than it had been before the fire. 
Of course, Ms G was perfectly entitled to do that. But those parts of the cost of the re-build 
which were for the improvements werent for Soteria to cover. 
The key point here though is that however difficult and complicated that might have made 
things for the loss assessor, Soteria did chase them several times for confirmation that the 
insured work had been completed. And, when no response was received, informed them 
that the claim would be closed on the assumption that Soterias liability had been met. Again, 
I cant blame Soteria for any delays here.
The same logic applies to the cost related to landscaping at the property. The loss assessor 
submitted costs for approval which included the cost of the landscaping. Soteria approved 
those costs and paid the money over to the loss assessor. Ms G says the landscaping wasnt carried out before now because she didnt think the 
payment would properly cover the costs shed incur. And now that the works need to be 
completed, the cost of the landscaping has increased significantly over the time since the 
payment was agreed.
If the costings submitted by the loss assessor were too low at the time, Ms G would need to 
take that up with the loss assessor. Soteria didnt put those costings together, the loss 
assessor did. Soteria paid what they were asked to pay by the loss assessor.
And Soteria cant be expected to cover inflationary increases in the costs since the time they 
paid the money over for the work to be done. Theyd be entitled to expect that the work 
would be carried out soon after theyd made the payment  and at the costs agreed with the 
loss assessor at the time.
Much the same logic applies to the sign-off of the building work, which was done by a 
company commissioned by the loss assessor. Again, Soteria cant be held responsible for 
the actions of that company. In effect, they were working for the loss assessor, who in turn 
was working for Ms G.
I believe Ms G thinks the theft of the gates was due to the builder irresponsibly leaving them 
unsecured and accessible whilst they were unattended. Again, the builder was appointed by 
the loss assessor and their actions or inactions cant be the responsibility of Soteria. It 
wouldnt be unreasonable or unfair to regard a claim for the loss of the gates as a new claim, 
to which an excess could be applied.
Turning to the alternative accommodation costs, there is an upper limit set out in Ms Gs 
policy, beyond which Soteria clearly say they will not pay. In fact, they continued to pay 
those costs for longer than they were obliged to under the terms of the policy. Ms Gs own 
solicitor confirmed this to her.
If I thought Soteria were responsible for the all the delays in the re-building of the house, I 
might be inclined to say that whatever the terms of the policy are, Soteria should in all 
fairness keep a roof over Ms Gs head until the works were completed. 
But thats not the case here. Soteria arent responsible for the delays. And I dont think 
Soteria have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in stopping the alternative 
accommodation payments when they did. As I understand it, the loss assessor then began 
to pick up those costs. That may be because they accepted some responsibility for Ms G still 
being in the position she was, rather than suggesting that Soteria were to blame.
Putting things right
Soteria have agreed to refund the premiums Ms G paid for the policy in the years after the 
year in which the fire happened. 
They have pointed out that the policy renewed several times in that period and Ms G never 
requested cancellation. 
Whilst I accept thats true, I think it is fair and reasonable for Soteria to refund the premiums 
given that the policy wasnt appropriate for Ms Gs needs during the relevant period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint.Soteria Insurance Limited must refund Ms Gs premiums for the period after the fire in which 
the policy was not appropriate for her needs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman