DRN-2958194
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took on hire purchase from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr W took a new car under a four-year hire purchase agreement. The car was 
priced at over £60,000 and had a three year or 60,000-mile warranty.
Mr W says that, in November 2018, the car lost power when he was on a motorway. He was 
able to re-start it, however, and the problem did not reoccur. Also, in November 2018, the 
car was returned to the dealership because of a known issue with its instrument cluster; it 
appears it also had a tyre replaced because of a puncture.
Mr W was unhappy about the condition of the car when it was returned.
In September 2019 the car was returned to the dealership because of a recall notice. Mr W 
reported a number of concerns he had with the car, but the job card indicates that the 
engineers were unable to replicate the faults he had reported.
In August and November 2020 two inspections of the car were carried out by two different 
independent engineers. 
The first report indicated that there were 15 fault codes registered on the cars diagnostic 
record. The inspecting engineer commented that this did not necessarily mean there were 
that many faults with the car, but the fact that ten of the codes concerned the engines 
operation was a cause for concern. He said too that none of the codes should be displayed 
and that they indicated a persistent and fundamental problem with the cars electronic 
systems.
The second report was unable to confirm whether any of the issues had been present at the 
point of supply. It noted that there was no service history with the car but concluded that the 
system issues that had been identified required a full diagnosis by the manufacturer.
Mr W referred his concerns to this service in November 2019  that is, before either of the 
engineers reports had been prepared. One of our investigators considered it and concluded 
(after seeing those reports) that the car was not of satisfactory quality and that Mr W should 
be entitled to return it and end the finance agreement. He made recommendations for 
resolving the complaint in line with those findings.
VWFS did not accept the investigators findings and said, in summary:
There was no evidence of any fault at the point of supply.
No faults had been identified since September 2019. 
The correct course of action would be for the car to be booked in at manufacturers 
service centre for further investigation and for any further work needed to be carried out 
under warranty.  
The case was passed to me for further consideration. Because I was minded to reach a 
different conclusion from that reached by the investigator, I issued a provisional decision. I 
noted that the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car 
would be of satisfactory quality. I thought that Mr W was entitled to expect a new car costing 
£60,000 to be virtually trouble-free. 
I thought too that there was evidence that the car was not without its problems. Mr W had 
reported a number of issues, and some of those were consistent with the diagnostic tests 
that had been carried out. 
I did not believe however that this necessarily meant that it would be fair to allow Mr W to 
reject the car and end the finance agreement. Of the two inspections that had been carried 
out, one recommended an inspection by the manufacturer to try to resolve the issues and 
the other thought the recording of fault codes could be caused by something relatively 
simple.
Whilst I was satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory quality, I thought that VWFS, 
together with the dealership and the manufacturer, should have the opportunity of resolving 
the issues identified by the engineers and which were the subject of diagnostic fault codes. If 
they could be resolved under warranty, I would consider whether an award in recognition of 
Mr Ws inconvenience should be made. If they could not be resolved, I would consider what 
VWFS should do to put things right.  
My provisional decision led to lengthy correspondence involving Mr W, VWFS, the 
investigator and the manufacturers service centre. I do not need to discuss that 
correspondence in detail, but I have read all of it and considered it carefully. Whilst it took 
some time to arrange, the car was taken to a manufacturers service centre in June of this 
year. 
The service centre reported that the car had two tyres which were worn below the legal limit. 
It had no tax and no MOT. It did not appear that the car had been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations. The service centres initial inspection did not reveal any 
faults. A full inspection would require a road test, but the was not possible while the car was 
untaxed, had no MOT certificate and had worn tyres. VWFS would not pay for replacement 
tyres, which it said were wear and tear items. Mr W agreed to have the tyres replaced but 
did not give his consent to the service centre to carry out the necessary MOT inspection. No 
road test has been carried out and Mr W has collected the car.
VWFS said that Mr W had not made any payments for some months and that he had 
indicated he was starting legal proceedings.  
The case was passed back to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in part because I did not consider I had enough information 
about the cars condition or enough evidence about its likely condition at the point of supply. 
The engineers reports which had been prepared after Mr W referred his complaint to this 
service were inconclusive; one recommended a further inspection by the manufacturer to 
see if the issues reported by Mr W were present and, if so, whether they could be resolved. 
One of Mr Ws responses to my provisional decision was to say that this service should 
collect more evidence; in recommending that the manufacturer carry out a further inspection under warranty, I was doing exactly that. 
Mr W also noted that his car had been the subject of a recall towards the end of 2019. That, 
he said, showed that it had not been of satisfactory quality at delivery. I accept that may well 
have been the case, although the reason for the recall was to ensure that any issues could 
be resolved; it does not follow that a recall notice means Mr W should be entitled to reject 
the car.
It is unfortunate that the service centre was unable to complete its assessment of the car 
because it could not be driven in a road test. There is therefore little more information about 
the cars condition than there was when I issued my provisional decision. The initial report 
from the service centre indicated however that no faults had been found. I take that to mean 
that the faults that Mr W had reported had either already been rectified or could not be 
identified.
As I have indicated, the real issue is not whether the car was faulty at delivery  the work 
which was carried out on it and earlier diagnostic tests suggest that it was not of satisfactory 
quality. What I have had to consider is whether those faults mean that Mr W can properly 
reject the car and end the finance agreement.
I said in my provisional decision that I did not believe  based on the evidence available to 
me at that time  that it would not be fair to require VWFS to allow Mr W to end the finance 
agreement. The evidence that is available to me now, however, is no more conclusive in my 
view. Further, having reviewed the case in full, I do not believe that it would be fair to make 
an award for any inconvenience to which Mr W has been put. I believe that VWFS and the 
service centre have acted fairly in seeking to investigate and resolve any issues with the car.     
Finally, I note that VWFS has said that Mr W has not payments and that he has started legal 
proceedings. On the first point, I would comment only that, even if there were issues with the 
car, that would not of itself mean that Mr W is relieved of his obligation to make payments 
under the hire purchase agreement. On the question of legal action, VWFS has only 
provided a partially completed online claim form. It is not apparent from that that any legal 
proceedings are under way.                      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman