DRN-3225873
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs B complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to extend the 
term of their interest-only buy to let mortgage.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs B had an interest-only buy to let mortgage with Cheshire Building Society. 
Cheshire merged with Nationwide, and in 2013 Mr W and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken over 
by Nationwide as part of the migration of all Cheshire accounts. The letter from Cheshire 
informing them about this gave a balance of around £95,700, and said that as an interest-
only mortgage, it was to be repaid in full by January 2018.
On 11 July 2017, Mr W and Mrs B applied to Nationwide to extend the term of the mortgage, 
asking for a revised redemption date of January 2023. On 20 July, Nationwide wrote to 
confirm the new redemption date.
In summer 2021, Mr W and Mrs B applied again to Nationwide for a five year extension to 
the term of their mortgage. Nationwide refused. 
In its email of 20 June 2021, Nationwide said that its reasons for the refusal were:
- The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) had introduced standards for lenders who 
offer buy to let mortgages;
- Nationwide didnt offer buy to let mortgages, so it couldnt extend the terms of 
borrowers whod previously had Cheshire Building Society buy to let mortgages;
- Mr W and Mrs Bs current terms and conditions didnt oblige Nationwide to extend 
their term.
Nationwide also said that although it had extended the mortgage in 2017, it had done this by 
mistake and shouldnt have done so.
Nationwide noted that Mr W and Mrs B had previously had the property on the market, but 
had withdrawn it, presumably because of the Covid pandemic. It said that as there were still 
1 year 7 months remaining on the term, they could try again to sell the property. Or they 
could re-mortgage elsewhere, either to one of Nationwides subsidiaries or to another buy to 
let lender, or refinance their home or their other buy to let properties in order to repay the 
mortgage. Nationwide recommended that Mr W and Mrs B should take independent financial 
advice.
Mr W and Mrs B werent satisfied and complained to this service. They said that theyd had 
problem tenants in the property, who theyd had to evict through a two-year court process, 
during which time the tenants hadnt paid rent. After the court eviction, Mr W and Mrs B 
found that the tenants had extensively damaged the property. Builders had quoted over 
£30,000, which Mr W and Mrs B couldnt afford, so they did the work themselves over a 
further two years. They said Nationwide had known about this. 
Mr W and Mrs B had then been able to let the property again in 2020. But they hadnt known 
that Nationwide would refuse to extend the mortgage a second time, saying it had only done 
so by mistake in 2017. They said that if theyd known Nationwide wouldnt extend the 
mortgage again, they wouldnt have had all the expensive repair work done. It had been very 
expensive, and throughout that difficult period theyd been paying the mortgage and all 
overheads such as rates and insurance, while not having any rental income. 
After Mr W and Mrs B had contacted this service, Nationwide sent its final response letter on 
29 July. This time it said its reasons for the refusal were that when the mortgage had been 
transferred from Cheshire Building Society, it had become subject to Nationwides terms and 
conditions. And these said that Nationwide would only lend up to age 75. Mr W was currently 
72, so a five year extension wouldnt be permitted.
Nationwide accepted that it had made a mistake when it had allowed the term extension in 
2017, because its policy was that a mortgage migrated into Nationwide couldnt be changed. 
It said it had granted this in order to allow Mr W and Mrs B to renovate the property after the 
problem tenants had left. The fact that it had allowed the extension in 2017 didnt mean a 
further extension would be allowed.
Mr W and Mrs B were still unhappy and asked the investigator to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr W and Mrs Bs complaint. He explained that buy to let 
mortgages are unregulated. This means that lenders dont have to support borrowers in the 
same way they have to with residential mortgage borrowers  the rules are less strict. He 
asked Mr W and Mrs B when the tenant problem happened, and they said they couldnt 
remember. But the investigator said he couldnt hold Nationwide responsible for what had 
happened.       
Mr W and Mrs B didnt agree. They said theyd tried several times to move the mortgage to 
the Nationwide subsidiary which Nationwide had suggested  and it had said it didnt do buy 
to let mortgages.  They said theyd lost over £40,000 on the property in recent years through 
no fault of their own. They felt that Nationwide could easily have extended the mortgage if it 
had wished, out of fairness to help customers in distress. They said the property was 
currently up for sale, and had been for six months. Mr W and Mrs B believed that if theyd 
still been with Cheshire Building Society, theyd have extended the term for them. They 
asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W and Mrs B had such a stressful time with their problem tenants. I 
do recognise that it must have been a very difficult time for them. But my job is to consider 
whether or not Nationwide acted outside any relevant rules in the way it treated Mr W and 
Mrs B  and also to decide what would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
Buy to let mortgages are unregulated, which means that regulatory rules dont apply to them 
as they do for residential mortgages. So lenders dont have to provide as much support for 
buy to let borrowers as they do for residential borrowers, for example. But lenders do still 
have to treat borrowers fairly, so Ive considered this.
A key problem here is that Nationwide has a policy of not offering buy to let mortgages. Any 
extension to an existing term would count as lending  which it doesnt do on buy to let 
properties. So its in line with its lending policies that Nationwide refused to extend the term 
of Mr W and Mrs Bs mortgage.  I can understand that this is frustrating when Nationwide did exactly that in 2017. But the fact that it allowed an extension once doesnt mean its obliged 
to do so again. 
As this service wouldnt normally interfere in the commercial decisions of a financial 
organisation, its not open to me to say that Nationwide has to take on buy to let lending. 
I also cant interfere in what Nationwides linked lender has as its policies, or what that lender 
has discussed with Mr W and Mrs B, because this complaint is against Nationwide. I do 
realise that this is frustrating when Mr W and Mrs B feel theyve had poor service from 
Nationwide, but I can only act within the rules that govern this service.
Ive also considered Mr W and Mrs Bs current situation, and whether Nationwides decision 
has put them in an urgent situation, which would mean it would be fair to expect Nationwide 
to help in the short term. As the term doesnt end until January 2023, I consider theres still 
time for them to sell or re-mortgage elsewhere before then. 
In coming to this conclusion, Ive taken into account the information I have about the 
property. Mr W told our investigator that he couldnt remember when the problems with the 
tenants had occurred. So I cant tell when they were resolved, and whether any particular 
tenancy issues still remain. But Mr W said that tenants moved in at some point during 2020, 
so hopefully there are no outstanding issues which might hinder Mr W and Mrs B from taking 
independent advice now about their best course of action before January 2023. 
I dont consider its at all helpful that Nationwide gave Mr W and Mrs B completely different 
reasons for its refusal, within a short timescale. But taking into account the fact that 
Nationwides policy was not to offer buy to let mortgages at all, and the fact that there 
appears to be some breathing space before the end of the mortgage term, I dont require 
Nationwide to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman