DRN-3040627
The complaint
Miss C complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc (TCB) and their failure to send her 
correspondence in large print despite repeated requests.
What happened
Mrs C had several accounts with TCB. One of these accounts contained a benefits 
packages, which Mrs C was able to change each year.  
Mrs C is visually impaired so she requested TCB to send any correspondence to her in large 
print. But Mrs C says TCB have failed to honour this request, and shes received several 
pieces of correspondence in standard text, which shes unable to read. She was unhappy 
with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs C complained about TCBs failure to send her correspondence in large print. She 
explained she was unable to read her annual benefits information so was unable to change 
her benefit to the gadget cover she wanted as she was unable to understand the limits the 
cover came with. And because of this, she had to add her electrical items to her home 
insurance, which she felt increased the premium she had to pay. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for this and the upset shed been caused by TCBs failure to honour her 
request.
TCB responded and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. They explained to send a customer 
correspondence in large print, their mailing address needed to be listed as TCBs 
transcription service address. And they explained when Mrs C changed her address online 
in late 2020, both her home address and mailing address were automatically changed as 
this was part of the online process. But they acknowledged this wasnt made clear on their 
website, so they offered Mrs C £50 to recognise the upset this caused as well as changing 
Mrs Cs address back to ensure large print copies were provided to her. Mrs C was unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While Mrs Cs complaint was with our service, Mrs C received further correspondence in 
normal print so she wanted this to be considered. TCB explained the correspondence had 
been sent in normal print as Mrs C was without access to her money and a new debit card 
needed to be provided. And they explained sending correspondence for transcription can 
delay correspondence being received by a customer. They also explained its standard 
process for the normal print correspondence to be received by a customer first, and the large 
print at a later date due to the transcription that was required. So, they didnt think theyd 
done anything further wrong and thought the £50 they originally offered was fair.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think TCBs website 
made it reasonably clear that, by changing her address online, Mrs C would be impacted her 
request for correspondence in large print. So, she thought TCB had acted unfairly and this 
had caused Mrs C upset and inconvenience.
She also thought Mrs Cs upset had been worsened by TCB continuing to send her 
correspondence in normal print after her complaint had been raised. Although she 
acknowledged TCB wanted to ensure Mrs C received her debit card as soon as possible, 
she thought Mrs C had made it clear she wanted all correspondence to be sent in large print. 
So, she said shed expect TCB to follow this request, unless Mrs C stated otherwise. And 
she didnt think TCB had made it clear in their final response that large print correspondence 
would be sent after normal print correspondence when the document is in alternative format 
and she thought receiving a normal print letter wouldve upset Mrs C further. So, she thought 
TCB should pay Mrs C a further £150, bringing the total compensation to £200.
TCB agreed to pay this compensation amount, on the basis this was in full and final 
settlement as they recognised their system would continue to send certain correspondence 
in normal print first before the large print copy was received. Mrs C didnt agree as she didnt 
think the £200 was enough to recognise the upset and inconvenience shed been caused. 
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Its not disputed that TCB have failed to send Mrs C correspondence in large print. And TCB 
have recognised the inconvenience this caused Mrs C and that they couldve made it clearer 
how changing an address online would impact Mrs Cs requested. So, I dont intend to 
discuss this part of the complaint any further as its already agreed that TCB have acted 
unfairly.
The main point of dispute centres around the correspondence Mrs C has received since she 
made her complaint, and the impact this has had. Ive seen copies of the correspondence 
Mrs C has received and Im satisfied this was sent in normal print despite TCB stating Mrs 
Cs request for large print had been put back in place.
TCB say the correspondence containing Mrs Cs debit card was sent in normal print to 
ensure she received her card as soon as reasonably possible. And I do understand their 
rationale behind this. But Mrs C had made it explicitly clear she wanted all of her 
correspondence in large print. So, unless Mrs C requested otherwise, I would expect all of 
her correspondence to be sent in this format. And I cant see that she asked for this request 
to be ignored in order to receive a new debit card. So, I dont think TCB acted fairly when 
taking this decision.
Ive also seen Mrs C statement of fees was sent in normal print. TCB have confirmed that for 
correspondence sent as an automated process, the normal print version would be sent first 
and a large print copy would then be sent after transcription. So, they didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly. As this is an automated process, I accept TCB are unable to change this nor 
would I expect them to. But, I cant see that TCB explained to Mrs C that shed receive 
correspondence in both normal and large print, with the normal being received first. I 
wouldve expected this to be explained in their final response letter, but I cant see that it was 
and I think this is unreasonable.
I recognise Mrs C may have worked for TCB previously, but Id expect TCB to treat every 
customer the same, regardless of jobs theyve held. So, I dont think it would be fair for TCB 
to assume Mrs C would have a prior knowledge of this process and Id expect them to explain it fully to her. So, I think theyve acted unfairly by not doing so and because of this, 
Ive then thought about what TCB should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Mrs C back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had TCB acted fairly in the first instance. 
Mrs C feels her insurance premiums have increased but is unable to evidence what financial 
loss this incurred. And without this evidence, Im unable to direct TCB to refund this 
difference.
But what I have been able to consider is the impact Mrs C has felt, and the upset shes been 
caused. TCB offered Mrs C £50 to recognise the inconvenience she was caused initially, as 
their website didnt make it clear updating her address would impact her request for 
correspondence in large print. And I think at the time, this was a fair offer.
But since then, TCB have issued further correspondence to Mrs C in normal print. While I 
recognise TCBs explanation for the debit card correspondence, I think they were aware at 
this point that all correspondence should be sent in large print. I dont think it up to them to 
decide whether or not Mrs C wanted to forego this request to ensure her debit card was 
received. So, I do think Mrs C was caused further upset by this.
And I dont think TCB made it reasonably clear to Mrs C that correspondence such as her 
statement of fees would be sent in both normal print and large print as its generated as part 
of an automated process. While I dont think TCB were able to stop this, and I recognise this 
will continue in the future, I think TCB shouldve done more to make Mrs C aware shed still 
receive correspondence in normal print and that the large print copy would follow after. As 
they didnt, I think Mrs C wouldve been left upset and frustrated having received more 
correspondence in normal print despite the efforts shed already gone through to prevent this 
happening.
So, considering all of the above, I think TCB should pay Mrs C a further £150 to Mrs C, 
bringing the total compensation award to £200.
I recognise Mrs C doesnt think this award is enough to recognise the upset shes been 
caused. But I think this award is a fair one, which also takes into account TCBs attempts to 
act in good faith when sending the debit card, and their inability to stop an automated 
process which I wouldnt expect them to do.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about The Co-operative Bank 
Plc and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs C an additional £150 to recognise the upset and invoice shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Ombudsman