DRN-3282976
The complaint
F complains about the decision of China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to decline its 
business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
F operates a restaurant and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten, as far as is 
relevant, by China Taiping. This policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for 
business interruption. 
In March 2020, F had to close its premises as a result of the government-imposed 
restrictions introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. F contacted China Taiping to 
claim for the losses incurred. China Taiping declined the claim. 
China Taiping explained that the core business interruption cover related to incidents of 
damage, and such damage was not the cause of Fs claim. China Taiping also said that the 
Denial of Access extension to this cover did not apply to the circumstances, because the 
actions taken that led to the closure of Fs premises were not those of the Police or other 
competent local authority. And that a further extension, providing cover in relation to 
Disease, was limited to a specified list of diseases that did not include COVID-19. 
F complained and, when China Taiping did not change its decision, it referred its complaint 
to this Service. However, our Investigator felt that China Taipings decision was in line with 
the policy terms. The Investigator said that, in the context of this policy, he thought the term 
competent local authority referred to a localised body, rather than central government. And 
that the cause of F closing its premises was the announcement and introduction of 
restrictions by the Government. Our Investigator also agreed that the Disease extension only 
covered the diseases listed in the policy. And that as this did not include COVID-19, there 
was no cover for this disease. 
F remained unsatisfied, so its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on F. And for the 
circumstances it finds itself in. But, largely for the same reasons as our Investigator, I dont 
consider this complaint should be upheld. I have set out below the reasons for this.
Relevant considerations
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint and borne in mind the relevant 
FCA rules contained in its Handbook. I have also taken into consideration the relevant 
legislation and case law, including The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case).
Additionally, I have taken into account the Award reached in a separate arbitration process 
China Taiping engaged in. The arbitration process was agreed between China Taiping and 
some of its policyholders. The policyholders were hospitality businesses (restaurants, cafes, 
bars and pubs). As part of the agreement to go to arbitration, China Taiping agreed to pay 
the reasonable legal costs of the policyholders. The policyholders were therefore 
represented by a law firm, as well as a QC and junior barrister who specialised in insurance.
The arbitrator was a retired Supreme Court Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, 
Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and impartially, giving each party a reasonable 
opportunity of putting its case and dealing with that of its opponent.
This arbitration, in part, considered the meaning of the subclauses in the Denial of Access 
extension. And so, as the matters subject to the arbitration proceedings were largely 
comparable to those in this complaint, I have considered the arbitrators Award. A copy of 
the Award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. 
The arbitrator concluded the policy did not provide the cover that was suggested by the 
policyholders involved in the arbitration. The key reasoning in the award, as far as I consider 
relevant to the current complaint, is that:
The natural meaning of the term competent local authority was a local, rather than 
central, body. The policyholders argued that competent local authority meant any 
authority which was competent to take action in relation to the local area. The 
arbitrator did not think this was right because it would mean that the word local did 
not add anything to competent authority.
Elsewhere, the policy distinguished between local authorities and government. 
However, there was no direct link between the relevant provisions; and insurance 
policy language may be taken from different sources.
The legislation in relation to diseases enables the Secretary of State to impose 
restrictions on a local or national basis; or to empower a local authority to do so. The 
Civil Contingencies Act (which grants powers to deal with emergencies) is in similar 
terms. China Taiping relied on the distinction under the legislation between 
government and local authorities. It also relied on other legislation conferring powers 
on local authorities to deal with emergencies and take enforcement action in relation 
to situations covered by the Denial of Access and Disease extensions, such as public 
safety issues, food poisoning, anti-social behaviour, sanitation, and vermin.
The test case judgment on the wording in an Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC 
policy wasnt of much assistance, given the different contexts and wording of the 
policies. This included the Ecclesiastical policys use of the terms Government, 
Police and Local Authority as well as competent local authority; and the 25-mile 
radius in the Ecclesiastical disease clause. In the Ecclesiastical policy, it would have 
led to a very odd result if the two terms had meant different things.
China Taipings interpretation was not contrary to commercial common sense. 
Limiting the insured peril to local authority actions was understandable and most pre-
pandemic claims would have been covered. It was also a pragmatic way of indicating 
that the cover was localised.
The arbitrator therefore decided that competent local authority meant a body with local, 
rather than countrywide authority.The Award the arbitrator reached is not binding on this Service (or on F), but I have 
considered the outcome and reasoning in the arbitration when reaching my own decision, for 
the reasons set out above.
Having taken these points into account, it is necessary to consider the specific policy F took 
out and what situations the insurance it provides responds to. As such, Ive considered every 
aspect of the policy F held with China Taiping to determine whether there are any sections 
that would require China Taiping to meet the claim F is making. Having done so, I dont think 
there are.
Fs policy includes cover in relation to losses resulting from an interruption to Fs business. 
As with most policies of this nature, the business interruption section is initially based on the 
interruption being caused by damage to the policyholders premises. I dont consider 
COVID-19 or the pandemic generally caused damage that led to the interruption of Fs 
business.
However, this cover is extended to include a number of other perils. The key extensions in 
relation to this complaint are the Denial of Access extension and the Disease extension. I will 
deal with these in turn.
The Denial of Access extension
This extension provides cover where there is an:
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of
a Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises 
b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of the 
Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other 
competent local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or 
any director or partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the 
carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds 
noncompliance with a prior order of the Police or other competent local authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to an 
emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises;

As above, I dont consider a clause requiring damage to be met in the circumstances of Fs 
claim. So, I dont think a provides cover here.
However, both subclauses b and c above do not require there to have been damage that 
has led to the interruption. But what they do require is that something has happened leading 
to either the Police or other competent local authority to issue instructions or advice, or take 
action. So, it is necessary for me to consider whether the interruption to Fs business was as 
a result of something the Police or other competent local authority did. 
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been defined within 
the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to consider what these terms are most likely to 
mean in the context of this policy.
Like our Investigator, I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday 
usage of this term and I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Fs premises was a requirement following the instructions of the government-imposed 
restrictions, rather than any action of the police. So, it cannot be said Fs premises were 
closed in accordance with instructions issued by the police. 
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent local 
authority means. 
Taking everything into account, including the decision in the China Taiping arbitration, I 
consider that the term competent local authority as it is used in Fs policy means a 
localised authority. As the arbitrator concluded, there is seemingly no reason for the 
inclusion of the word local in this term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a narrow 
geographic area. And I consider the natural way of reading this term would be to conclude 
that it referred to local bodies only.
When reaching this conclusion, I am again mindful of the fact Fs insurance contract should 
be interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person would have had 
at the time the contract was entered. I dont think the reasonable person would have read 
this policy and considered that this term referred to a national authority. That would not be 
the natural understanding of the words used in the term.
I do note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority was 
reached in the FCA Test Case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical policies. 
However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the contract they 
appear in. And there are significant differences between the Ecclesiastical policies and Fs 
policy. To my mind, the key difference was that the Ecclesiastical policy used this term in a 
clause that also contained the term Government Police or Local Authority. And it would not 
have made commercial sense for the two terms to have a different meaning in that context.
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on F, which might fall generally into the areas 
of cover provided by sub-clauses b and c in the Denial of Access extension (as well as 
the Disease extension), could be following instructions of either local or national bodies. But 
that there is reasonable commercial sense in China Taiping having limited cover to where 
those instructions are given by a local body. This would have given F cover for the events 
which were most likely to affect it, but would also have limited China Taipings exposure to 
extreme events, which are more likely to result in a national response, such extreme events 
likely to result in high value claims. And, significantly, I dont think F, or its directors, would 
reasonably have understood the policy as providing cover different to this when it was 
entered.
Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Fs policy the term competent local authority 
refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Fs premises were 
issued by the Government. And I dont consider this to be a localised body. As such, I do not 
consider F was instructed to close its premises by a competent local authority. And I 
consider China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably when declining Fs claim under the 
Denial of Access extension.
The Disease extension
This extension in Fs policy provides cover losses caused by, in part:
the occurrence at the Premises:

of a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition

Clarification of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease 
Endorsement
It is hereby understood and agreed that for the purposes of the cover afforded by this 
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease 
contained in paragraph b shall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984 or 
the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever. 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the Insurers.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided F with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for China Taiping to include it in 
the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think China Taiping intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. China Taiping deliberately chose to define notifiable, human, infectious or 
contagious disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy F had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy they have is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed above. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does 
not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Fs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Fs policy for losses resulting from business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied China Taipings decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the rest of Fs policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met their claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for F and its directors. But I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why their policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman