DRN-2760536
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) gave him incorrect 
information about the completion of his mortgage, which led to him moving out of his existing 
property before the purchase of his new property completed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So I wont go over them all again 
here. Instead Ill provide a summary, and then Ill give my decision and the reasons for it.
In May 2020 Mr G enlisted the services of MAB to apply for a mortgage on a new build 
property, which he planned to buy using the Governments Help To Buy scheme.
MABs broker submitted Mr Gs application to the lender on 2 June 2020. There were a 
number of errors in the application, which meant correspondence went back and forth 
between MAB, the lender, and Mr Gs solicitor. The application was amended several times 
before it completed on 25 September 2020. 
During the time that Mr Gs application was passed between the different parties, Mr G 
moved out of his property to vacate it for his buyers. Mr G says he did that as MAB assured 
him that his purchase would complete shortly. As the purchase took longer than expected, 
Mr G has explained that he incurred costs to stay in hotels until his purchase property was 
ready, as well as other costs, such as for storage.
MAB has paid Mr G £500 in compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience and delays in 
the application process. But Mr G doesnt agree that this is a fair way to resolve things  as 
he says he was assured that the purchase would complete much sooner than it actually did. 
Mr G says that as he had to live in hotels until the purchase completed, hes lost around 
£6,000 in expenses.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but she didnt think MAB needed to put anything 
right. Whilst she understood the difficult situation Mr G had found himself in, she didnt think 
that MAB had told Mr G to move out of his previous property before completion. So she 
didnt think MAB needed to reimburse Mr G for any costs he faced as a result of doing that. 
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know thisll come as a disappointment to Mr G but Im afraid I agree with the outcome the 
investigator reached. Ill explain why.
Mr G applied for his mortgage on 31 May 2020. As Ive said, there was some to-ing and fro-
ing between MAB and the lender, as there was a discrepancy in the information that had 
been entered into the application related to the purchase price of the property. After the offer 
was reissued a number of times, the purchase completed on 25 September 2020. At almost 
four months, I do agree the mortgage process took longer than Id usually expect  and 
longer than it needed to  as a result of MABs initial errors with the application. Id usually 
expect the full mortgage process to take between two and three months, so this delay was 
around one-and-a-half to two months longer than what Id usually expect. Its important to 
note that at the time of the initial errors in the application Mr G hadnt moved out of his 
property  so this didnt cause him a financial loss. But in any case, MAB accepts that it 
made mistakes here, and I think MABs offer of £500 compensation adequately 
compensates Mr G for this additional time and inconvenience. 
Turning to the crux of Mr Gs complaint, Mr G says that he was told the mortgage was due to 
complete within two weeks, so he completed on the sale of his property with the expectation 
that hed be able to move into his newly purchased property imminently. I certainly 
understand that Mr G was keen not only to make sure his existing property sale completed, 
but also to get into his new property. But I need to think about whether Mr G took the action 
he did as a result of MAB misleading him, or whether it was a decision he made. 
Ive carefully reviewed all of the correspondence between Mr G and MAB and its fair to say 
that theres an optimistic tone suggesting that the property purchase would be completing 
soon. But I havent seen in any of the communications that MAB incorrectly or falsely told Mr 
G when completion would be  or gave him any assurance about that date. A completion 
date should only be considered as guaranteed after contracts have been exchanged, and 
the emails Ive seen were sent before that point. As there was no guaranteed completion 
date set, and as MAB didnt give Mr G incorrect information leading to him taking the actions 
he did, I dont hold MAB responsible for any losses Mr G faced as a result of the unexpected 
delays he experienced, after selling his home.
Im mindful that Mr G also says he was told that completion was imminent during a phone 
call. I havent been able to listen to a copy of that call, as MAB says that during the 
pandemic most staff were working from home and making calls from their mobiles. I know Mr 
G doesnt accept MABs explanation here, but I dont think its unreasonable to accept that 
this couldve happened. And in any case, for the same reason Ive already given, I dont 
think that being told completion is imminent is comparable to having exchanged contracts 
in terms of giving certainty or a definite completion date. So whilst Ive considered what Mr G 
has said, Im afraid it doesnt affect the decision Ive reached. 
I do appreciate the very difficult situation that Mr G found himself in, where he had sold his 
property but unexpected delays on his purchase effectively left him homeless. And I certainly 
dont doubt this wouldve been stressful and costly for him. But in reaching my outcome I 
have to consider whether MAB did anything wrong which led to this happening. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded thats the case here. Im also mindful that its 
common for a property sale and purchase to happen simultaneously to avoid unexpected 
situations like this happening, and whilst there mayve been good reason for him doing so, I 
think the decision not to proceed in this way was taken by Mr G independently.
Id like to reassure Mr G that although I might not have addressed every point hes raised, 
Ive carefully read and thought about everything hes said. But having done so, I havent 
found that MAB treated him unfairly, so Im not upholding his complaint. If it hasnt already 
done so, MAB should pay the £500 to Mr G, but it doesnt need to pay him anything further.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint 
against Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman