DRN-3374073
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr C, a director of H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf. H is represented in bringing 
this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those 
of H. 
What happened
H held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. H claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Hs claim. They said the core business interruption section of the policy 
and the extension for prevention of access both required the interruption to Hs business to 
be as a result of damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. 
Covea said that while the policy covered interruption due to a list of specified diseases, 
Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, H brought its complaint to our service. It didnt think it was 
fair for Covea to limit the diseases covered to those listed in the policy. It said Covea had the 
option to add Covid-19 to the list of diseases if they wanted to. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Hs claim. 
H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Hs policy covers loss resulting from the 
interruption or interference to Hs business in consequence of damage to insured property 
used at Hs premises. The policy defines damage as loss, destruction or damage unless 
otherwise excluded.
I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption to Hs business was caused by 
damage to insured property used at its premises. Therefore, this section of the policy doesnt 
provide cover. 
Prevention of access
Cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of damage to 
property within 1 kilometre of the premises which prevents or hinders the use of 
or prevents access to the premises but excluding damage to property of any 
public utility from which you obtain supplies or services.
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Hs business would need to be in consequence 
of damage to property within 1 kilometre of its premises which prevents or hinders the use of 
or access to Hs premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage 
to property within 1 kilometre of Hs premises which hindered or prevented access, so this 
doesnt cover Hs claim. 
Compulsory closure
The relevant part of this extension covers:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
The words in bold have a specific definition in the policy. The policy defines notifiable human 
infectious on contagious disease as a specific list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-
19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Hs policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. In fact, it says that no new diseases will be added without Coveas consent. 
I understand that H thinks its unfair that Covea have chosen not to add Covid-19 to the list 
of diseases but an insurer can decide which risks they want to cover and in this particular 
case Covea decided to cover a specific list of known diseases. Therefore, I dont think the 
policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and so this doesnt provide 
cover for Hs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Hs claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman