DRN-3915690
The complaint
Miss L complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wouldnt refund a payment made when she was 
scammed.
What happened
What Miss L says:
Miss L told us she received a text message on 23 July 2022. It said her third-party payment 
service had been suspended and asked her to update her details. She added her debit card 
details. 
On 25 July 2022, she was called by someone purporting to be from Revolut. The caller said 
there was a suspicious transaction on her account, but if she confirmed it in Revoluts app, 
she would get a refund on 2 August 2022. She confirmed the payment but no refund arrived. 
Her account was debited with £745 on 28 July 2022. The payment was to a luggage retailer.
Miss L says the call came from Revoluts number  so it must have been genuine; and the 
amount of money she had lost was 40% of her balance at the time  and it was money she 
couldnt afford to lose.
Miss L contacted Revolut on 3 August 2022 to ask them to investigate what had happened.
What Revolut says:
Revolut didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. They said the call was from a scammer. They said 
Miss L had authorised the payment in the app. She had tapped in the app to confirm the 
payment.  Revoluts numbers are only used for incoming calls  they would never make an 
outgoing call. They pointed to their terms and conditions  which warned against scam 
payments and the need to keep security and card details safe. 
Revolut had advised Miss L to make a chargeback claim, and this had failed  because the 
payment had been authenticated by her in the app. The card scheme rules meant the 
chargeback claim failed.
Revolut said they cancelled Miss Ls debit card and issued a new one  and refunded the 
card delivery fee of £4.99.
Our investigation so far:
Miss L brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it was likely the 
scammers got Miss Ls card details from the phishing text she got on 23 July 2022. She told 
us she had tapped on the text and entered her card details. When the scammers called Miss 
L on 25 July 2022, she authorised the payment via the app. He didnt think the payment was 
suspicious in appearance, and it was in favour of a legitimate retailer. So  he said it wasnt 
reasonable to expect Revolut to intervene and stop the payment. He said the chargeback 
failed because Miss L had authorised the payment in the mobile app. The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary one  and its not guaranteed to provide a refund.
Miss L asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss L has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that Miss L 
authorised and consented to the payment in this case. Revolut have shown us evidence that 
Miss L authorised the payment in the app, and Miss L has also admitted she did so. Miss L 
has also told us that she entered her card details in response to a phishing text she 
received  and its likely the scammers then used her card details to carry out the scam.
So, although she didnt intend for the money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because Revolut arent a signatory to the Code.
 
I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss L 
when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
I considered whether the payment couldve been considered unusual in the context of Miss 
Ls normal account activity. I looked at her statements  and such payments were common. I 
could see payments of £1,970.95 (22 February 2022); £5,346.92 (10 March 2022); £751.20 
(17 March 2022); £1,150 (20 March 2022); £2,760 (23 March 2022); and £4,080 (23 March 
2022). 
Therefore, I dont think it could be expected that Revolut shouldve considered the payment 
of £745 as exceptional  and therefore it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say they 
shouldve stepped in and questioned it.It's also typical that such scams drain an account of funds  and here, that wasnt the case  
as £200.38 was left in Miss Ls account. And another characteristic is that there are multiple 
payments  which wasnt the case here, as it was a single payment.
Theres also a balance to be struck: Revolut has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think 
Revolut acted reasonably in processing the payment.
Chargeback:
The chargeback process is a voluntary one  customers are not guaranteed to get money 
refunded, and there are strict scheme rules in place by the card schemes (e.g. Visa and 
Mastercard) which govern chargebacks. In general terms, the chargeback scheme can 
provide a refund where a customer has bought goods or a service which isnt provided or is 
not what was advertised. So  that isnt the case here. 
We also asked Revolut for more information about Miss Ls chargeback claim and why it 
wasnt successful. They told us the chargeback had failed because Miss L had authorised 
the payment in the app; and showed us evidence that Miss L did so. And under those 
circumstances, the chargeback claim failed  which I think is reasonable.
Recovery:
In scam cases, we consider what a firm did to recover the money paid. But in this case, 
because the money paid was for an online purchase for goods with a debit card, this isnt 
something which we can expect a firm to do  such recovery processes apply to (for 
example) where there are online bank payments. So I cant reasonably say we wouldve 
expected Revolut to try to recover the money.
Im sorry Miss L has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Revolut responsible for her loss. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman