DRN-4389213
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) 
handled her claim for water damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss property was damaged following a burst water pipe in the loft water in December 
2022, resulting in significant water damage to the rooms below. Mrs S was insured by 
Accredited at the relevant time and submitted a claim following the incident. Accredited 
accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement for the damage. Mrs S was unhappy about 
the handling of her claim and didnt think that the cash settlement was adequate. She 
wanted Accredited to pay the full amount she was quoted for the works.
Accredited maintained its position and Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. The 
relevant investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint as to the level of settlement. She said 
that the insurer would only be expected to pay what it would have cost its own contractors to 
carry out the works. However, she upheld Mrs Ss complaint about the service received. She 
didnt consider that Accrediteds offer of £50 for delays to be a fair reflection of the claim 
issues. It was her view that Accredited should pay Mrs S £250 compensation in total.  
Accredited disagreed with the amount of compensation recommended by the services 
investigator. In the circumstances, the matter has been referred to me to make a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Accredited applied the terms and conditions of 
the policy, and generally acted, in a fair and reasonable manner. Im satisfied that Accredited 
applied the policy fairly and reasonably, however Im not satisfied that it provided an 
adequate service in all respects, and I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in this respect. Ill explain 
my reasoning below.
I turn firstly to Mrs Ss submissions. She said that the burst pipe unfortunately occurred 
around Christmas times. Accredited informed her it couldnt get dryers and told Mrs S to 
leave the heating up, with windows open for three weeks. Mrs S said that all walls, ceilings 
had cracked. As such, Accredited said it had to re-scope the damage and had revised its 
settlement offer to just over £7,100 after Mrs S complained. She wanted her own contractors 
to repair the damage, due to her experience of constantly having to drive the claim. 
Mrs S considered that the cash settlement offered by Accredited wasnt nearly enough to 
cover the cost of the repairs. The quotes shed obtained totalled over £7,750 and this didnt 
include additional damage to the bathroom and kitchen that totalled over £1,500 or include 
£450 for loft insulation. She didnt think she could accept an offer that didnt come with a 
breakdown of what damage it included. 
As to further difficulties, Mrs S said that her bedroom had developed a serious mould issue, 
to include mattress and bedding, which had affected her breathing. As a result, her bedroom 
had become uninhabitable. She also felt that Accredited constantly delayed the claim and 
that there was a lack of response and sense of urgency. In March 2023, she complained that 
I am yet to hear anything regarding the outcome of my legitimate claim or see any action 
being taken to minimise the effect of the damage following the leak
Mrs S said that six visits occurred before Accredited eventually took any note of the 
additional damage to walls and ceilings, and there had been no communication or updates 
following visits. She said that shed provided hundreds of photographs yet Accredited still 
wanted more. Whilst she appreciated that there were numerous claims received in 
December, this was the same for all insurers, and it was now June 2023. Mrs S said: I am 
losing precious time in getting the damage repaired and the longer it is left the longer the 
costs will increase Mrs S thought that shed been left in a totally unacceptable and 
outrageous position and referred to having been gaslighted. Finally, Mrs S outlined her 
health issues which she said Accredited had been aware of from the date of claim. 
I now turn to Accrediteds submissions. It referred to the fact that it had offered just over 
£7,100 as a cash settlement of this particular claim, plus an amount for VAT. It referred to 
the terms and conditions of the policy, to the effect that it would offer a cash settlement to 
the same level as the cost for its preferred contractor to complete the same repairs. It also 
offered the alternative for Mrs S to use one of Accrediteds contractors to complete the 
repairs in accordance with the scope of works.
As to the time taken to resolve the buildings claim, Accredited accepted that it had received 
an updated scope from the surveyors in early May 2023, and the cash settlement offer was 
not made until early June 2023. It also accepted that there was a delay in testing and 
removal of asbestos with the cash settlement raised later than we would have hoped as a 
result. It apologised and initially offered £50 compensation and eventually increased this to 
£175. It reiterated that it considered this appropriate, as the industry had been under intense 
pressures and that thered been significant challenges in the first months of 2023.
Having considered all evidence and submissions I now provide my reasoning for this final 
decision. The starting point in such cases is the policy wording. In this case, the relevant 
wording is as follows: When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding 
work, repairs or replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options. a) We 
will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out the 
rebuilding work, repairs or replacements b) We will pay you a cash settlement for the same 
amount it would have cost us to use our preferred contractor. 
Firstly, I consider that the cash settlement offered by Accredited was fair and reasonable. 
Having carefully considered the detailed, priced scope of works supplied by Accredited, Im 
satisfied that the cash settlement reflected the cost for which its own contractor could have 
completed the same repairs. This included works to the bathroom, bedrooms and loft 
insultation work. Im also satisfied that it fairly and reasonably offered an alternative solution 
for Mrs S to use its own network of contractors, however this was declined by Mrs S. Whilst 
Mrs S was entitled to opt for use of her own contractor, I cant say that Accredited acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining to pay out for the higher quotes shed obtained. 
As to the amount of time taken to process the claim, there are invariably inbuilt delays in 
scoping, processing, and resolving a significant claim of this nature. There will also naturally 
be queries and reviews on both sides which all take time resolve. These can cause some 
inconvenience but are not in themselves unfair or unreasonable. In general, I consider that Accredited had been reasonably responsive in progressing this claim. The initial scope of 
works was produced promptly but needed to be reviewed following discussion with Mrs S.
Nevertheless, I cant say that the claim was managed in an efficient manner in all respects. I 
accept that the early months of 2023 would have proved challenging for insurers due to the 
volume of claims. Accredited has itself accepted however that there were delays in asbestos 
testing and in making its offer of settlement following the production of a revised scope of 
works. I consider that there were therefore avoidable delays here and inadequate 
communication for a period of weeks, bearing in mind that it was also aware of Mrs Ss 
health concerns. I also agree that the claim process wasnt as streamlined and smooth as 
should be expected, with Mrs S having to resend information and to chase for claim updates. 
Im therefore satisfied that a total of £250 would be a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation to reflect the unnecessary stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to pay a total of £250 in compensation to Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman