DRN-3214836
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given by Andrew Colyer-Worsell trading as FixMyPension.com 
to transfer his executive pension plans (EPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr B has been helped in the complaint by his wife Mrs B, but the complaint is just about his 
pension. So for simplicity Ive referred to any comments or submissions as if they were made 
by Mr B himself. 
What happened
Mr B held two EPPs with provider S, valued at the time of the advice at just over £65,093 in 
total. In 2016 Mr B took advice from Mr Colyer-Worsell (the advisor) trading as 
FixMyPension.com (FMP) about taking advantage of pension freedoms legislation to 
cash in these plans. Mr B lives in France and at the time he and his wife were in the process 
of selling their business. They intended to purchase a buy-to-let property in the UK or Spain 
to boost their retirement income. 
The fact-find completed by the advisor records Mr Bs circumstances at the time as:
Aged 64 and married, no dependent children 
Wishing to retire at 67
Self-employed, living and running a business in France since 1998
Intending to sell the business which he thought was worth £100,000
Owned a property in France outright 
No UK income and no other savings or investments
Attitude to risk (ATR) 2 out of 7
FMP advised Mr B to consolidate and transfer his policies to a SIPP with provider A in a 
flexi-access drawdown plan. For tax reasons FMP recommended Mr B take income spread 
across three tax years, taking 25% tax-free cash and then an annual income payment of 
£11,500 to utilise his personal allowance under UK tax rules. 
Mr B accepted the advice and the transfer to A took place in June 2017, leaving Mr B with 
around £62,800 once the advisors fee of 3.5% had been deducted. He was 65 by then and 
became eligible for a UK state pension, which gave him additional annual income of about 
£6,000. 
In August 2017 Mr B took 25% tax-free cash (around £15,700) as his pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS), and the remainder of his drawdown plan was invested in 
a mix of equities, property, bonds and some cash. In September 2017 Mr B withdrew 
£11,500 from the plan on which he paid some tax expecting to reclaim it back from HMRC. 
But for this and subsequent withdrawals Mr B found himself liable for both UK and French 
tax. 
In 2019 Mr B complained the advice hed been given wasnt suitable for someone living 
outside the UK. He discovered that French rules wouldve allowed him to take his whole 
pension as a lump sum taxed at a flat rate of 7.5%. This option hadnt been suggested by 
the FMP advisor.  
FMP maintained the advice had been suitable. If Mr Bs funds had remained with S hed still 
have paid UK emergency tax - his UK state pension had caused the extra tax. FMP didnt 
think hed be better off paying French tax at 7.5%. The advisor said Mr B should sort out the 
overpaid tax with provider A. But A said the application form had shown Mr B to be a UK 
resident, so it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr B complained to this service saying he wanted to be put back in the position as if his 
pensions had never been transferred from S to A, all withheld tax repaid, FMPs fees 
refunded and compensation for the stress the situation caused and for the additional fees 
hell have to pay to a new advisor to sort things out. An investigator at this service looked 
into the complaint and upheld it, as he said the advice wasnt suitable for Mr B as a non-UK 
taxpayer and he proposed two ways to put things right. FMP didnt agree saying the advice 
was suitable as Mr B had maintained a UK address as evidenced by the plan with S and 
his UK driving licence. They still thought Mr B could reclaim any overpaid tax from HMRC, 
As charges were lower than hed been paying with S and those hed incur with an overseas 
plan. And Mr B had wanted the funds invested for growth and the investments 
recommended were appropriate for Mr Bs ATR of 2 out of 7. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2021.
my provisional findings (in summary)
I didnt think the advisor should have recommended Mr B transfer his benefits to a SIPP with 
A as it was clear from the application form and declaration which Mr B signed its only for UK 
residents. The advisor was aware Mr B was resident in France (his French address is 
recorded in the letter of authority and fact-find) hed lived there for over 20 years, was a 
French taxpayer and in receipt of a French state pension. Even if the advisor understood Mr 
B had maintained a UK address, (his UK correspondence address was reflected on his UK 
driving licence) I felt it was clear he wasnt actually a UK resident or taxpayer at the time the 
pension plan started. 
A explained its customers can access their pensions from overseas by advising them in 
advance, and completion of Form R43 enables a citizen of the EEA to claim the same 
personal tax allowance as a UK resident. FMP thought Mr B would be able to reclaim all the 
UK tax he paid from HMRC, but Mr B believes hes been left with a shortfall giving rise to his 
complaint. 
The evidence showed FMP had discounted an overseas plan because the charges would be 
higher. And that As charges at 0.4% were far lower than Mr B had been paying to S. But I 
didnt think the lower charges themselves made the recommendation suitable. 
So having established FMPs advice wasnt suitable I considered what Mr B would have 
done. I thought it most likely if hed known he could Mr B would have taken an UFPLS of just 
over £62,800 (allowing for the advisors fee) and accepted the relevant French tax. Taking 
into account the 10% tax-free allowance, the remaining £56,520 would be subject to tax at 
7.5% (£4,239). So I calculated in the 2017/18 tax year Mr B wouldve had access to 
approximately £58,561. In addition hed have his UK state pension of £6,760 per year, which 
it looked like he couldve received without the deduction of UK tax by completing the relevant 
form. 
So I then looked at what actually happened and from the available evidence Mr B has 
received the following cash amounts:
PCLS                                 £15,700Net withdrawal (£11,500)  £7,842 (tax year 2017/18)
Net withdrawal (£5,610)    £5,160 (tax year 2018/19)
Tax rebates (total)        £2,330
                                          £31,032
Plus he still has £31,646 being the balance of his SIPP with A (as at Sept 2019) which 
remains invested, making a total £62,678. So based on this very basic calculation it didnt 
appear Mr B was financially worse off by not taking the UFPLS and paying French tax so I 
asked Mr B for evidence of the additional tax hed paid. And if Mr B was worse off FMP I said 
FMP should pay interest to reflect that he didnt have access to his whole pension in the 
2017/18 which prevented him using the funds. 
So my provisional decision was that FMP should:
On the production of suitable evidence reimburse Mr B the amount of additional tax 
hes been charged by the French authorities but not received a rebate for. 
Pay Mr B simple interest at 8% on £58,561 from 30 August 2017 to the date of my 
final decision to reflect the loss of use of the funds; 
Pay Mr B £500 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice and its 
impact on his retirement plans
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr B accepted the findings and said the following (in summary)
He provided evidence that hes registered for the French healthcare system (so 
wouldnt be subject to the 9.1% social charge in addition to the 7.5% tax charge);
He couldnt confirm if hed overpaid French tax but its now too late to amend his 
2017 French tax return. His new accountant provided an estimate of the tax hed pay 
(€20,872) if he cashed in his entire policy with A this year, (but this calculation 
appears to be based on Mr and Mrs Bs joint finances); 
Hed received tax rebates from HMRC of £1,223.02 in respect of 2017 and £334.59 
for 2020; 
In 2021 hed withdrawn the final £2,638.27 from the pre-retirement (cash) element of 
his plan with A;
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage offer in place and had embarked on the search for a 
Spanish property in 2019. They were interested in one for €169,000 but this didnt 
progress due to a family bereavement. A mortgage wouldnt now be necessary, but 
prices have risen prohibitively and changes in their circumstances, Mr Bs age and 
poor health mean they are no longer pursuing this, although they regret not going 
ahead in 2019;
The business (which had been marketed at €300,000) has not sold and now Mr Bs 
son is going to run it, but they didnt need the sale proceeds for the buy to let 
purchase;
Had things gone according to plan hed have purchased a buy to let property in 2017 
and received five years of rental income. While the pandemic might have prevented 
overseas visitors, income wouldve come from Spanish staycationers;
Mr Bs wife mentioned their finances and tax position have been affected by 
inheritances following the death of her mother in 2019. But as this couldnt have been 
foreseen at the time of the advice its not relevant for this decision. 
FMP disagreed with my findings, making the following points:
The advisor didnt know Mr B was intending to claim his UK state pension as soon as 
he became eligible, and if Mr B had asked he wouldve told him to delay so that the 
drawdowns fell within his UK personal allowance;Mr Bs pension plan with A has benefitted from investment growth of approximately 
7% so hes better off than if hed transferred to an UFPLS in the 2017/18 tax year;
They agreed to the £500 but nothing more as Mr B doesnt appear to have suffered a 
financial loss.
Having considered the responses from both parties I still thought the advice from FMP had 
been unsuitable. 
But without evidence of additional French tax paid Id seen nothing to dispute the 
calculations in the provisional decision which showed Mr B hadnt actually made a financial 
loss. As it appeared hed received a total of £66,596 rather than the £58,561 he wouldve 
had, (plus the ongoing investment growth of his plan with A). And if he made no loss I have 
no basis to award redress. So I also compared the tax he should have paid (in France) of 
£4,239 and the tax hed actually paid (£4,108) less the rebates hes received (£4,120) and 
this appeared to show hed paid close to zero tax, which also meant no evidence of financial 
loss from the tax perspective. 
So it seemed despite the unsuitable advice, Mr B was actually no worse off than he wouldve 
been. But I acknowledged hed effectively put his retirement plans on hold so I still felt FMP 
should pay £500 for the inconvenience caused.
To avoid issuing another provisional decision I put these thoughts to both parties.
FMP agreed to pay £500.
Mr B was very disappointed and reiterated the following points: 
Hed always hoped to cash in his EPPs but the option of an UFPLS paying French 
tax was never put forward by the advisor;
In 2017 the proceeds of the policies converted to Euros plus some savings would 
have been sufficient to purchase a buy to let property, but prices have risen 
prohibitively since;
Theyd started an online property search as soon as they found out the value of the 
policies but put it on hold while the complaint was ongoing. They didnt really want a 
mortgage at their age;
The policies were a windfall bonus which theyd hoped to use to provide additional 
retirement income, but this freedom of choice has now been denied to them; 
Mr B didnt write the UK address on the application form, it must have been added 
later by the advisor;
The transfer from S to A had been pointless;
The advice hadnt been suitable for someone living outsider the UK and hes suffered 
financially from it;
He wasnt happy with compensation of £500 and asked that I revisit the 
compensation originally awarded in the provisional decision;
So the case has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses from both parties and read through the whole file afresh. 
Having done so I still think FMP gave Mr B unsuitable advice as the advisor (and Mr B himself) knew Mr B was not a UK resident for tax purposes at the time the pension plan with 
A started. Even if Mr B had been a UK taxpayer (which he wasnt) the additional income 
from his UK state pension reduced the amount he could withdraw annually from his pension 
plan and remain within the personal allowance. 
Confusion was caused by Mr Bs UK address which hed provided to S as his new 
address and which showed on his driving licence. It transpired to be that of the friend who 
introduced him to the FMP advisor to be used as a temporary correspondence address if Mr 
B visited the UK once his business sold. It was never his residential address so shouldnt 
have been quoted on As application form. The form details may have been completed by 
the advisor but the declaration at section 7 of the application form which Mr B signed on 30 
May 2017 included nine short bullet points. One of which read I declare the information 
given in this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and another one 
read I confirm that I am resident in the UK for tax purposes. The sentence just above Mr 
Bs signature read in bold I confirm that I have read and agree to the above Application 
Declaration. 
So Mr B had some responsibility for the accuracy of what he was agreeing to. But while both 
parties were aware Mr B wasnt a UK resident, it was FMPs responsibility to base their 
recommendations on Mr Bs actual circumstances as a French resident and non-UK 
taxpayer.  So Im satisfied the advice wasnt suitable, even if the advisor wasnt aware of the 
possibility Mr B could take an UFPLS and pay 7.5% French tax. 
On balance think if that option had been presented Mr B is likely to have taken it, assuming 
he met the eligibility criteria. Had he done so he would have had access to the funds in the 
2017/18 tax year to use as he saw fit. Mr B has said these funds were never intended as his 
main retirement income but were a windfall bonus to be used to generate supplementary 
income, perhaps through the purchase or a buy-to-let property.
But while Mr B wasnt able to cash in his pensions as a lump sum as he hoped, Im not 
persuaded the advice caused him a financial loss. While Mr B hasnt purchased a buy-to-let 
property so feels hes lost out on rental income, I dont think this was solely the responsibility 
of FMP. Mr B says they started a property search as soon as he had the valuation of his plan 
with S but put it on hold while the complaint was ongoing. He provided evidence of property 
searches in 2019 and says they had a mortgage offer at the time, but the purchase didnt 
progress for personal reasons, and they didnt really want to take on a mortgage. So it 
seems Mr B couldve purchased a rental property if hed wished to and repaid the mortgage 
with withdrawals from his pension or other monies, pending the outcome of the complaint, 
which I recognise has taken a long time to resolve. And in the meantime his plan with A has 
benefitted from investment growth. But some compensation is appropriate to recognise the 
impact of the unsuitable advice on Mr Bs retirement plans. 
Putting things right
I think £500 is fair to reflect the impact of the advice on Mr Bs retirement plans. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Andrew Colyer-Worsell trading as Fix My Pension should pay Mr B £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman