DRN-3122659
The complaint
Ms W complains about the charges applied by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) when her car finance agreement ended. 
What happened
In April 2016, Ms W entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase agreement (PCP) 
for a new car. The cars cash price was £23,731. She was required to pay £310 per month 
followed by an optional final payment of £11,846.
The agreement was due to end in April 2020 but at Ms Ws request it was extended by three 
months between April and June 2020. The car was collected on 16 July 2020 and in line with 
BMWFS return process, it was inspected on 24 July 2020. Damage to the car was reported 
and it was found the permitted mileage had been exceeded. As a result, BMWFS required 
Ms W to pay £1,185 for the damages and £789 for the excess mileage.
Ms W complained about the damage charges. She said it wasnt damaged and the pictures 
werent of her car. BMWFS said the damage was beyond what they considered to be fair 
wear and tear so the charges were payable.
Unhappy with their response, Ms W referred the complaint to our service about the damages 
and also the excess mileage. BMWFS said she hadnt previously complained about the 
excess mileage. Having looked into it, they said the three month extension hadnt been 
taken into account when applying the excess mileage charge and they confirmed she was 
permitted to travel an additional 2,000 miles. They reduced the excess mileage charge by 
£141 to reflect this but said the rest remained payable. 
Our investigator reviewed the case and recommended it wasnt upheld. They believed 
BMWFS had correctly pro-rated the mileage to take into account the extension. They also 
believed they had fairly applied the damage charges.
Ms W disagreed. In summary, she said:
- She accepted there was damage to the wheels only;
- The photos taken when the car was collected showed there was no damage 
therefore she cant be held responsible for damage caused when it left her 
possession;
- Shes unhappy with the excess mileage charge because during the Covid-19 
pandemic she needed to drive to work meaning she needed to cover more miles;
-     Her credit file had been negatively impacted due to this dispute about the charges. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint, Ill explain why. 
Ms W entered into a regulated car finance agreement with BMWFS so this complaint is one 
our service can consider.
Damages
Ive reviewed the terms of the agreement and it said in the event the car is returned and its 
not in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), BMWFS will apply a 
charge.
When considering what is fair wear and tear, BMWFS said they considered the guidance of 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess 
damage when new cars have been returned as part of the hire purchase agreement. In this 
case, the car was new when it was supplied to Ms W so I believe its fair for BMWFS to take 
this guidance into account and Ive also done the same. 
BMWFS have applied the following charges for damages:
1 Wheel LHF Scratched £26
2 Wheel LHR Buckled £230
3 Wheel RHR Scratched £26
4 Wheel RHF Buckled £227
5 Tyre LHF Cut £119
6 Tyre RHR Cut £119
7 Tyre RHF Cut £119
8 Bonnet Scratched £106
9 Bumper (rear) Scratched £106
10 QTR panel RHR Scratched £106
Total 1,185
The inspection reported damage to the wheels (the alloys) and the tyres. It said four wheels 
are scratched and/or buckled and three tyres were cut. The BVRLA guidance says Scuffs 
up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. 
It also says the tyres must meet minimum UK legal requirements. Having checked such 
requirements, I can see a cut that exceeds 25mm means a tyre is not road legal. 
Having looked at the pictures, I can see there is significant damage to the wheels showing 
multiple scuffs and scratches around the circumference of the wheel. Equally the pictures 
show cuts to the tyres which I believe  are in excess of 25mm. Overall Im satisfied the  
damage to the wheels and tyres exceeded the BVLRA standards so I find BMWFS were 
entitled to charge for it. From my understanding, Ms W accepts this damage. 
Bonnet, bumper, QTR panel 
The inspection report said there were scratches to the bonnet, bumper and QTR panel. The 
BVLRA guidance says Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is 
not showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. Having looked at the 
pictures of these areas and the measuring tool shown next to them, Im satisfied they all 
exceeded 25mm. Therefore I consider them beyond fair wear and tear so I find BMWFS 
were entitled to charge for it. 
I note Ms Ws comments that the pictures dont belong to her car and the pictures at 
collection show there was no damage. However I disagree. BMWFS has explained due to an issue with the collection agents camera, pictures were only taken when the car was 
inspected so there were no pictures when the car was collected. At the time of the 
inspection, a number of pictures were taken of the car, not just of the reported damage. 
Having reviewed them all, Im satisfied all the pictures relate to the same car.
Given Ms W had the car in her possession for over 48 months, the car was inspected within 
eight days after it was collected and the extent of damage overall, Im satisfied the damage 
was caused while it was in her possession. Meaning it was present when the car was 
collected and before it was inspected. 
Excess mileage
The terms of the agreement allowed Ms W to travel 8,000 miles per year, meaning 32,000 
miles throughout the 48 month term. In the event this amount is exceeded, it said BMWFS 
would charge 7.08 pence per mile. Ms W signed this agreement in 2016 so Im satisfied she 
was aware of the same. 
When the car was inspected on 24 July 2020, the odometer confirmed it had travelled 
43,154 miles. On this basis, BMWFS said she needed to pay £789. However by their own 
admission, they had failed to take into account the three month extension which permitted an 
additional 2,000 miles. Im satisfied this was calculated on a pro-rata basis, meaning Ms W 
was able to cover 34,000 miles in total for the term of the agreement. 
However even with this additional mileage, its clear Ms W has exceeded this by over 9,000 
miles. While I appreciate her comments about needing to drive the car during the Covid-19 
lockdown, the agreement and extension document made it clear how many miles she was 
permitted to travel. In the event Ms W needed more, I believe it wouldve been reasonable 
for her to discuss this with BMWFS in advance but having read their contact notes, there is 
no evidence this happened. 
BMWFS reduced the excess mileage charge by £141 to reflect the additional 2,000 miles 
and from my estimation their calculation is correct (that is 2,000 x 0.07). Their system 
records show this was credited to the account in November 2020 so Im satisfied they have 
put this right. Overall I believe BMWFS are entitled to charge for the excess mileage in this 
case. 
Other
Ms W has also told our service that shes unhappy that adverse information has been 
recorded on her credit file due to this situation. Given Ive found BMWFS were entitled to 
apply these end of contract charges and these are yet to be paid in full, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong by reflecting the same on Ms Ws credit file. They have a duty to 
accurately report the status of the agreement.
Summary
Overall, I believe BMWFS fairly applied the damages charges. Having already corrected the 
excess mileage charge to take into account the extension, they are also entitled to charge 
for the excess mileage. Having reached my decision, I encourage Ms W to contact BMWFS to discuss payment of 
the outstanding balance. However I wish to remind BMWFS of the expectation to treat the 
situation with forbearance and due consideration in the event she is experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman