DRN-2217660
The complaint
Mr R isnt happy because Covea Insurance plc has declined a claim he made on his 
Lifestyle Protector Plan.
What happened
Mr R has a Lifestyle Protector Plan which provides a monthly benefit if he is unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. In May 2019 he claimed on his policy because 
he said he was unable to work due to sickness following a road traffic accident. The accident 
was caused by a syncopal episode (fainting). Mr R was diagnosed with vasovagal syncope, 
a condition which causes some people to faint. 
The claim was declined on the basis that it related to a pre-existing medical condition. Covea 
pointed to the fact that Mr R had seen a consultant in 2018 who referred to presyncope and 
probable vasovagal tendency. So they said that the claim was linked to a pre-existing 
condition, as defined by the policy terms. Mr R complained to Covea. He was also unhappy 
that Covea had referred his medical information to an independent medical expert for an 
opinion. Mr R has not agreed to that report being shown to Covea.    
Covea looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that Mr R had been 
experiencing symptoms, and had a number of investigations for symptoms of dizziness, 
tiredness and high blood pressure. They accepted there wasnt a confirmed diagnosis of 
vasovagal syncope, but concluded that Mr R was consulting for symptoms of it before the 
policy start date. And, they pointed out the consultants reference to probable vasovagal 
tendency. Finally, they explained that Mr R had signed a consent form which allowed Covea 
to pass his information on to other service providers to help with the management of his 
claim. That included a medical note review. Mr R complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that Covea had fairly declined the claim based on the medical evidence and the 
policy terms. And she didnt think it was unreasonable for Covea to have requested a 
medical review of the notes. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He feels that the 
investigator hadnt understood the medical evidence and its not fair to consider an unnamed 
medical condition to be a pre-existing condition. He also explained that Covea had instructed 
a service provider who had then passed his details on to a medical centre. So he didnt think 
Covea had the right to do that.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has Covea fairly declined the claim? 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Covea has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say that Covea will not pay any accident or 
sickness benefits if: 
Your Accident or Sickness results directly or indirectly from: 
-Any Pre-Existing Medical Condition, unless You have been symptom-free and not 
received treatment or advice for that condition during any consecutive period of 
24 months preceding a claim
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
A condition or related condition either:
(i) For which You received treatment in the 24 months up to and including the 
Commencement Date or
(ii) Which You were aware of, or in Our opinion You should have been aware of, 
during the 24 months up to an including the Commencement Date
Unless You have been symptom-free and not consulted a Doctor or received 
treatment in the 24 months preceding the claim.
The commencement date of the policy was August 2018. Mr R claimed on the policy in May 
2019. I dont think it was unreasonable for Covea to reject Mr Rs claim on the basis that it 
was a pre-existing condition as set out in the policy for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
From 2017 onwards Mr R attended his GP and the Accident and Emergency unit on a 
number of occasions with symptoms including dizziness, palpitations, chest pains, neck 
pains and nasal congestion. There are also references within the medical records to Mr R 
experiencing a possible anxiety disorder  he was referred to a mental wellbeing team and 
his treating team also discussed some possible medications for anxiety on more than one 
occasion. 
As part of these investigations, in June 2018, Mr R was seen by a consultant cardiologist 
who referred to him being presyncopal. He has since provided a letter clarifying that this 
referred to symptoms of dizziness Mr R was experiencing. But, this doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Thats because the consultant concluded in 
June 2018 and August 2019 that Mr R had a vasovagal tendency. His more recent letter 
says: 
My clinical impression was that your symptoms of dizziness and palpitations were 
probably due to a vasovagal tendency exacerbated by hyperventilation) this is a 
common cause of dizziness and palpitations associated with chest pain) however this 
was not a definitive diagnosis and only a probability. I made this clear in my letter to 
your GP and therefore again this is a factually correct representation of my 
assessment of you at that time. Vasovagal tendency was my clinical impression 
and not a definitive diagnosis.   
Mr Rs claim arose from a syncopal episode when he was driving his car. The diagnosis from 
the Accident and Emergency unit he attended stated that the diagnosis was Vasovagal syncope. Bearing in mind Mr Rs medical history from April 2017 onwards I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Covea to conclude that Mr R was experiencing symptoms, and treated for, 
a condition or a related condition to vasovagal syncope. Thats because the medical 
evidence specifically refers to a vasovagal tendency within the relevant two year period 
which was connected to the ultimate diagnosis and the claim.  
Mr R has opted not to disclose the independent medical review of his case to Covea, which 
hes entitled to do. But Covea can only assess the claim on the basis of the evidence 
available to them. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Covea to 
reject Mr Rs claim on the basis that it arose from a pre-existing medical condition. 
Was it reasonable for Covea to share documents with the medical centre? 
Mr R is also unhappy that the company Covea had instructed (which Ill refer to as SCS) 
sent his medical records on to a doctor at a medical centre (which Ill refer to as MM). He 
says that they shouldnt have shared this information with a third party as they are two 
separate companies. 
Mr R signed an authority saying: 
I authorise Covea Insurance Services Limited to pass my information to its service 
providers to assist with the management of my claim. I understand that the services 
may include any of the following independent services. A home visit, a telephone 
interview, a medical note review, a functional capacity evaluation, a Specialist 
Medical Examination or other medical related services, back to work assistance 
services or other claim related service. 
I cant decide whether there has been a breach of the data protection legislation. Thats 
something that the Information Commissioners Office can decide. But I can take into 
account whether Mr Rs personal information was disclosed by MM when it shouldnt have 
been, during the claims process. Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think it was. 
The authority Mr R signed says that information may be passed to more than one service 
provider. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think that SCS were responsible for sourcing an 
appropriate medical expert which is a claim related service. And MM were responsible for 
providing the review of the file. So, this doesnt persuade me that Covea acted unreasonably 
in the circumstances of this case and Im not upholding this aspect of Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman