DRN-3351246
The complaint
Mr R complains about the information given to him before he acquired a holiday lodge, for 
which he paid for in part, using his credit card with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr R received a letter from company who Ill call A, advertising the sale 
of luxury holiday lodges, located on different holiday parks across the UK. The advert was 
aimed at people looking to retire, to downsize or to join others as part of an investment. 
In the advertising letter, A explained that they could manage the holiday bookings of the 
lodges and provide a guaranteed annual return to each investor over a period of three years. 
A few months later, Mr R signed a purchase agreement with A, which said hed receive a 
return of 8% monthly on his investment. 
To join the investment, Mr R used his credit card with HSBC to pay £5,000 in early January 
2017. This was used as a deposit paid to A. And in late January 2017, Mr R transferred 
£50,000, being the remainder of his part of the cost, to invest in one of the lodges. 
The following year, A sent Mr R a letter to say the lodge hed invested in had been built and 
was available for people to rent. A also sent Mr R a payment, in line with the guaranteed 
annual return hed agreed to. 
But, in January 2019 Mr R received notification from an administrator, to say A had gone into 
administration. Mr R says he also discovered that the lodge hed invested in wasnt finished, 
so couldnt have been made available for people to rent. 
Because Mr R had used his credit card to pay the deposit to A, he contacted HSBC to raise 
a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He said A hadnt provided 
the lodge hed paid for and had given him misleading information. 
HSBC responded and turned down the section 75 claim. They told Mr R that the purchase 
price of the lodge was outside the scope of a section 75 claim, because it cost more than 
£30,000. Mr R didnt accept this and complained to HSBC. He said the £5,000 he paid fell 
within the limits set out for a section 75 claim. HSBC didnt change their response, so Mr R 
brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs case and concluded that HSBC had treated Mr R 
fairly. He agreed with HSBC and said the purchase price for goods and services needs to be 
between £100 and £30,000, for a section 75 claim to be considered. The investigator found 
that the purchase price of the lodge was significantly more than the higher limit set out in the 
CCA, and he concluded that HSBC didnt need to take any further action. 
Mr R didnt agree and said he was only trying to claim back the deposit amount, not the full 
amount hed paid to A. The investigator didnt change his conclusions and so Mr Rs case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mr R and HSBC my provisional decision on this case, on 17 February 2022. I 
explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional 
findings is included below:
Section 75 of the CCA 
Mr R paid the deposit to A using his credit card with HSBC. The agreement Mr R has with 
HSBC for the credit card says that its regulated by the CCA. So, we are able to consider 
complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides 
protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75, 
subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a credit card to pay for goods and services, 
have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In Mr Rs case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against HSBC, because A 
didnt build the lodge hed paid towards. So, with what Ive said in mind, I agree that Mr R 
was able to ask HSBC to consider if he has a claim under section 75 of the CCA. 
One part of the criteria for a claim under section 75 to proceed, relates to the cash price of 
the items being purchased. Section 75 doesnt apply to any items which have a cash price of 
£100 or less, or more than £30,000. 
I can see from Mr Rs agreement with A, that the total cost of his contribution to the lodge 
was £55,000. I can also see from looking at Mr Rs credit card and current account 
statements, where the deposit and then a further larger payment was made to A. I 
understand where Mr R says the transaction he made on his credit card was within the 
section 75 limits Ive set out. But, section 75 of the CCA refers to the cash price of the goods 
or services purchased, not just the portion of the total paid using credit. 
Having considered everything, I think the cash price of the lodge was more than the £30,000 
limit set out in section 75 of the CCA. So, I think HSBC treated Mr R fairly when they told him 
they couldnt progress his claim under section 75. 
Mr R has told us he only wants HSBC to look into refunding the deposit amount, rather than 
the full amount he paid to A. I acknowledge Mr Rs wishes here, but I think the progress of 
Mr Rs section 75 claim is dependent on the cash price of the goods, rather than the lower 
amount he would like refunded. 
Within his complaint, Mr R says his claim should proceed, even if the cash price is outside of 
the section 75 limits. He says the word or within the terms and conditions for his credit card 
account, suggest there are alternative reasons why HSBC should take his claim forward. 
On page six of the terms and conditions for Mr Rs credit card account, it says: 
Can you make a claim against us when you have a claim against the supplier? 
If you purchase any items of goods or services costing between £100 and £30,000 
using credit under this agreement you may have a right of redress against us as well 
as the supplier if, for example, the goods fail to arrive or are not of satisfactory quality 
or the supplier made a representation which you relied on about the goods which 
was not accurate. 
I think HSBCs terms and conditions sets out the financial limits Ive summarised. I also think the terms and conditions go on to cover the types of claims which could be considered, if the 
cost of the goods fall between the financial limits. 
Having thought carefully about Mr Rs arguments, I dont think his agreement with HSBC 
says that a section 75 claim can proceed on other grounds, as an alternative to the cash 
price condition. 
Ive also considered whether section 75A of the CCA might apply, because that covers 
certain agreements where the cash price of the goods is more than £30,000, but less that 
£60,260. Section 75A, part 5(b) of the CCA explains more about the types of agreements it 
covers. It says section 75A applies to a linked credit agreement and defines that as: 
(b) the specific goods or provision of a specific service are explicitly specified in the 
credit agreement. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think section 75A applies to Mr Rs 
circumstances, because the credit he used was his HSBC credit card account. And the 
lodge he paid towards, wasnt explicitly specified within the agreement he had with HSBC. 
So, I dont think the type of credit Mr R used is covered by section 75A of the CCA. 
Section 56 of the CCA 
Section 56 doesnt have the same financial limits as section 75 of the CCA. Section 56 can 
have the effect of making HSBC responsible for things which were said by a supplier during 
the sales process. 
Throughout his complaint to HSBC, Mr R says he was told hed receive an annual return on 
the lodge he had paid towards. He says A didnt tell him the truth, as they didnt actually 
build the lodge. So, Ive considered if HSBC treated Mr R fairly, by looking at what he was 
told by A, before he paid the deposit for the lodge. 
Mr R paid the deposit to A on 6 January 2017. Before this date I can see A sent Mr R a 
personalised letter which said: 
So great are the returns from UK lodge lettings, that many of our customers invest in 
a lodge purely for the tax free* income, earning a minimum 8% for each of the first 
three years alone. 
Mr R also says he received a sales brochure, before he paid the deposit. Ive looked at the 
brochure and on page 15, I can see it contains a grid. The grid summarises what a customer 
will benefit from, if they invest £55,000. The brochure says: 
A Guaranteed rate of 8% a year£4,400 per annumThe rate remains 
unchanged over the three year term. Payments are made monthly into your 
designated account. 
Within the documents sent to us by Mr R, theres also a letter and a copy of the purchase 
agreement he signed with A. The information contained within the letter and purchase 
agreement was given to Mr R, after he paid the deposit. But, both of these documents also 
set out the same return expectations as the information he was given, before he used his 
HSBC credit card to pay the deposit to A. 
Having considered everything, I think A gave Mr R key information about what he could 
expect as a return on his investment, before the deposit was paid. I can see from the way 
the lodge was advertised and from what Mr R tells us, that it was the return, rather than use of a holiday home, which was key in his decision to enter the agreement with A. So, on 
balance, Im persuaded Mr R chose to pay the deposit to A, based on the investment returns 
information. 
With that in mind, Ive considered if A made a false statement of fact, when they told Mr R 
about the returns he could expect. 
I acknowledge all that Mr R has told us about what happened when he discovered that A 
had gone into administration. Im also aware of the coverage in the media about the effect 
the administration had on many people who had entered into similar agreements with A. But, 
for me to find that A had misrepresented the investment returns information, Id need to be 
persuaded that A deliberately gave Mr R false information about the expected returns. 
Throughout our investigation, weve spoken to the administrator and a third party involved 
with many of As former customers. Ive thought very carefully about what the administrator 
and the third party have told us. In particular, Ive considered if A knew they were in 
administration, in January 2017. Having done so, Im not persuaded the evidence shows that 
A were aware they couldnt offer the returns they had advertised. 
While I sympathise with the circumstances experienced by Mr R, on balance Im not 
persuaded a false statement of fact was made by A, before he paid the deposit to them. So, 
I dont think HSBC treated Mr R unfairly, when they looked at section 56 of the CCA and the 
deposit Mr R paid to A. Although Ive taken everything into consideration, Id like to make it 
clear, that my findings are about Mr Rs own circumstances and his individual complaint 
against HSBC. 
The timescales for a chargeback claim 
Where there are specific conditions, consumers can ask their card issuer to reverse 
payments made on their card, by raising a chargeback. Individual card schemes have their 
own rules that the card issuer, in this case HSBC, have to apply. The chargeback process 
doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. It depends 
on what the merchant, in this complaint A, says in response to the request the card issuer 
submits and what the rules of the card scheme say. 
The card scheme has limited circumstances where a chargeback can be raised, including 
the type of dispute (sometimes referred to as the reason or dispute code) and the length of 
time a customer has to make one. The relevant chargeback reasons that would have applied 
in this case were Goods or services Were Either Not as Described or Defective, or Goods 
or Services Not Provided. 
The card scheme rules for the reasons Ive outlined say that a chargeback should be 
attempted within 120 days of the transaction processing date. Or from the anticipated date 
the goods or services should have been delivered. The rules also say that a chargeback 
shouldnt be attempted after 540 days from the date where a supplier receives the funds 
from a transaction. 
The administrators sent Mr R a letter on 14 January 2019, to tell him that A had gone into 
administration. So, I think it was at this point when Mr R became aware he may not continue 
to receive the returns outlined on his purchase agreement. And I can see that Mr R raised 
his concerns with HSBC towards the end of 2019. But, the £5,000 payment was made to A 
in January 2017. 
In all the circumstances, I think Mr R made HSBC aware that he wanted to claim a refund of 
his deposit more than two years after it was received by A. From what I can see, HSBC didnt pursue a chargeback enquiry, when Mr R contacted them. Having considered 
everything, I think Mr Rs contact with HSBC happened after the 540 days outlined in the 
rules of the card scheme that Mr Rs credit card falls under. So, I think HSBC treated Mr R 
fairly, when they chose not to start a chargeback enquiry. 
Overall, I acknowledge and sympathise with what Mr R says about the financial burden he 
says he experienced from his dealings with A. But, I think HSBC have treated him fairly 
when they looked at the deposit he paid using his credit card in January 2017.
Mr R responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- A had fabricated the updates he was given when he was told there was a delay to 
the building of the lodge and about the interest he was promised would be paid.
- HSBCs wording in the terms and conditions of his account says that the financial 
limit shouldnt prevent him from making a claim.
- The lodge was not delivered as planned and the director of A had intentions to place 
the company into administration when he took control of it.
- He lost much more than others when A was deliberately placed into administration.
HSBC responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within Mr Rs response to the provisional decision, he explained the impact of the loss he 
incurred from his payments to A. Id like to reiterate that I empathise with all Mr R has told us 
about and I agree that it must still be very difficult for him.
However, this complaint is against HSBC, rather than any separate action Mr R may be 
taking against A or its directors. So, my findings need to focus on whether or not HSBC 
should have taken Mr Rs section 75 claim forward.
For section 75 to apply, the CCA says the cash price of the goods must be more than £100, 
but no more than £30,000. Mr R says the terms and conditions for his credit card with HSBC, 
suggest that this is one of three conditions, each not depending on the other, for a claim to 
be considered. 
Ive checked the terms and conditions for Mr Rs credit card with HSBC and I dont agree 
with his interpretation here. Ive also looked at section 75 of the CCA and Im satisfied that 
HSBC treated Mr R fairly when they found his claim couldnt go ahead because of the 
financial limits it talks about.
Additionally, I still think the total cash price of the goods Mr R paid the deposit towards, 
exceeded £30,000. While I acknowledge the house purchase comparison Mr R has put to 
us, I think it remains that the total cash price of goods purchased by Mr R, exceeded the 
financial limit set out in section 75 of the CCA.
Mr R has also told us A gave him false information when he called to talk about interest 
payments, and when they sent him update letters about the building of the lodge. I accept 
that things started to go wrong with A, around a year to eighteen months after Mr R had paid the deposit. 
But, I have to consider what Mr R was told before he paid the deposit and if this induced him 
into entering the agreement. Ive found that the investment information was a key feature for 
Mr R. But, Ive also found that on balance, I dont think A knew they were insolvent at the 
time they set out the investment returns information. So, I still dont think A gave Mr R a false 
statement of fact, which would mean a claim under section 56 of the CCA could have been 
considered by HSBC.
Ive also considered Mr Rs argument about the motives of the director of A. As Ive said, I 
have looked at all the information available and I agree that Mr Rs loss may be greater than 
others, in their dealings with A. However, when considering HSBCs responsibility to Mr R, I 
dont think they treated him unfairly, when they told him they couldnt proceed with his 
section 75 claim. Also, I think HSBC treated Mr R fairly having looked at their responsibility 
under section 56 of the CCA and a chargeback under the relevant scheme for Mr Rs credit 
card.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman