DRN-2975860
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd
(SKA) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In June 2017, Mr H contacted SKA for advice on his pension. SKA explained they did not 
have the necessary permissions to advise Mr H on DB pension transfers as this was a 
specialist area. However, they said they could refer his case to a financial adviser who had 
the necessary permissions to undertake this type of work. Mr H agreed and SKA referred 
him to another firm, Retirement & Pension Planning Service Limited (RAPPS). 
SKA completed a fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire with Mr H which was passed on 
to RAPPS. Mr H was subsequently advised by RAPPS to transfer his DB benefits to a 
personal pension. After the transfer, SKA became the ongoing adviser on Mr Hs personal 
pension plan.
Mr H complained both to SKA and RAPPS in 2020 about the advice he received. He said 
both firms are responsible for his DB transfer and any potential losses suffered. He said they 
jointly advised him to transfer. SKA rejected his complaint and said they didnt provide Mr H 
with any advice about transferring his DB pension.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint 
but didnt uphold it. He didnt think SKA were responsible for any losses Mr H might have 
suffered by transferring his DB pension, but that the losses were attributable to RAPPS 
actions and omissions.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs representatives say SKA and RAPPS should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say SKA failed to act in Mr Hs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
RAPPS is in liquidation, so I cant consider the complaint against them. I carefully 
considered whether SKA should reasonably be held responsible for Mr Hs losses here in 
some form, however I dont think they should. Our investigator addressed Mr Hs arguments 
in detail and I do agree with him.
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is RAPPS. They were the firm who had the 
relevant permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr H could not have transferred his DB pension without 
RAPPSs advice.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between SKA and Mr H and testimonies differ. Mr 
H says SKA also encouraged him to transfer and advertised the benefits of flexibility, control 
and lump sum death benefits. He says SKA told him going to the PPF would mean hed see 
a substantial reduction of his benefits. SKA denies giving him advice on the pension transfer. 
I havent seen concrete evidence that SKA actually recommended Mr H to transfer. 
However, its clear SKA completed the fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire and so they 
would have had discussions with Mr H about his retirement and a possible transfer. They 
also became the ongoing advisers on Mr Hs new pension and were charging ongoing 
advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr H would transfer. Ive considered the
possibility that SKA strayed into giving Mr H advice. However, even if they did, in my view 
none of their interactions with Mr H and possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the 
potential losses he suffered.
SKA did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr H not to transfer. Mr H said he was worried 
about the PPF and rumours at work all suggested this was very negative. So I think he 
would have wanted advice in any event. I think there was nothing generally wrong with 
referring Mr H on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension.
Mr Hs representatives say SKA referred a number of clients to RAPPS and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to RAPPS on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that RAPPS would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not. RAPPS was free to advise Mr H not to transfer and shouldnt have given this 
recommendation if a transfer wasnt suitable for him.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on RAPPS,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
Ive considered the fact that Mr H says he has only ever spoken with SKA and never had any 
direct contact with RAPPS. He also doesnt recall the suitability report. However, it was 
RAPPS who needed to ensure Mr H understood their advice. It was ultimately RAPPSs 
obligation to provide Mr H with independent and suitable advice. And if it wasnt suitable for 
Mr H to transfer, RAPPS should, as the experts in this field, have clearly told him so and 
provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any discussions with SKA would 
have likely made Mr H go against this advice. 
In summary, Im satisfied it was RAPPSs actions and failings that ultimately caused Mr H to 
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer. I dont think Mr Hs potential losses here are caused by SKAs actions and so I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman