DRN-3331334
The complaint
Mrs W complains Nationwide Building Society agreed to lend her money via an overdraft on 
her current account when this was irresponsible and unaffordable. 
What happened
In July 2015, Mrs W visited a Nationwide branch to open a second current account. She 
wanted to do this to help her manage her finances. During the meeting, Mrs W was offered 
an overdraft facility of £2,250 and a credit card with a limit of £7,000. 
Later the same day Mrs W was granted a £500 overdraft on her other current account with 
Nationwide. This application was made online.
 
This complaint concerns only Nationwides decision to give Mrs W the overdrafts.
Mrs W suffers from a number of mental health conditions.
  
In December 2019, Mrs W complained to Nationwide that they had been irresponsible by 
offering her the overdraft because she was vulnerable and couldnt afford to repay the debt. 
Nationwide responded to Mrs Ws complaint. They said, at the time, their checks showed 
Mrs W was eligible for the overdraft, but it was her decision whether to accept it. As Mrs W 
had accepted the overdraft and its terms and conditions, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ws concerns. He said, in summary, he didnt think 
Nationwide had carried out sufficient checks during Mrs Ws application for the £2,250 
overdraft, but having considered Mrs Ws financial circumstances at the time  he concluded 
it was likely Mrs W could afford to sustainably repay this overdraft. 
But he didnt think Nationwide shouldve agreed to provide Mrs W with the £500 overdraft on 
her other account. To put things right, he recommended Nationwide:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mrs Ws account with the £500 overdraft. 
If this resulted in an outstanding balance, Nationwide should arrange a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs W. 
If the refund of interest and charges resulted in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, the additional funds should be paid to Mrs W and Nationwide should pay 
interest on this amount from the point Mrs W wouldve been in credit on her account 
at a rate of 8%. 
Remove any adverse information about the £500 overdraft on this account from Mrs 
Ws credit file.
Nationwide didnt agree with the Investigators view. They said they had based their decision 
to lend on what Mrs W had told them in her application and the credit check they did at the 
time. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the Investigators view. She wanted the outstanding balance on both 
overdrafts be written off. Our Investigator asked Nationwide if theyd be willing to do this as a 
gesture of goodwill. They said they could consider a write off if Mrs W provided up to date 
income and expenditure details. Mrs W said she didnt want to do that. 
As both parties didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision setting out what I thought. Ive set out those findings again below and they form part 
of this decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide had an obligation, when considering whether to offer Mrs W the overdrafts, to 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure she could afford to repay the 
borrowing sustainably.
Proportionate checks can vary  but generally wed expect a business to satisfy themselves 
that the customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way.  So first I need to 
consider if Nationwide completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mrs W would be able to repay what she borrowed on the overdrafts in a sustainable 
way. 
The £2,250 Overdraft
The application form completed at the time shows Mrs W was noted as being employed, with 
a yearly salary of about £35,000. But the application also notes Mrs Ws occupation as 
Home Maker. I find this a clear contradiction in the application data and one Nationwide 
should have noted at the time. 
Mrs Ws actual circumstances at the time of the application were; she was not working, was 
in receipt of benefits and taking care of her two children. Mrs W had been discharged from 
Bankruptcy in 2011 and has told us, because of that, she was very reluctant to take out 
further credit and that wasnt purpose of her visit to Nationwide in July 2015. 
Mrs W already banked with Nationwide  so they wouldve been able to see, with relative 
ease, that Mrs W wasnt receiving a salary at all. And if they had, I think this wouldve 
prompted them to ask further questions about this since the application indicated she was. 
Nationwide said they based their decision on the information in the application and a credit 
check. As Ive just explained, the information on the application itself was contradictory and 
Mrs W already banked with Nationwide, so they could and should have taken steps to verify 
the income stated on the application. But they didnt. So, I find Nationwide failed to conduct 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Nationwide says the employment information was provided by Mrs W. And that, its unlikely 
to have been entered in error by their employee. Mrs W says she told Nationwide at the time 
her income was made up of mainly health related benefits for her children and about her 
bankruptcy. While its not clear how the wrong information ended up on the application, I 
dont think this matters because Ive found Nationwide shouldve carried out further checks 
and if they had, they wouldve discovered the information was incorrect. 
So now I must consider, if Nationwide had done proportionate checks, would that have 
shown Mrs W couldnt afford the £2,250 overdraft.  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws credit file. This shows she had one other small loan which had 
been taken in April 2015, about three months prior to her visit to Nationwide. And although 
the information about Mrs Ws bankruptcy has dropped off her credit file now, in 2015 it 
wouldve been there for Nationwide to see. Mrs W is particularly concerned that Nationwide 
agreed to lend to her despite her having been discharged from her bankruptcy. But as our 
Investigator explained, although wed expect a lender to take this into account  it wouldnt 
necessarily mean Nationwide shouldnt have lent to her. 
Ive got statements for Mrs Ws current account with Nationwide for the three months prior to 
the application for the credit card. These show, while always in credit, Mrs Ws balance 
drops as low as £154.67 in May 2015 and £197.25 in June 2015. 
Having considered Mrs Ws statements and income and expenditure information, it seems 
she had some disposable income and so I think its likely she couldve afforded to repay the 
overdraft in a sustainable way. 
Mrs W also says Nationwide shouldnt have agreed this overdraft facility (or any of the 
lending they gave her) because she was vulnerable. Based on what Mrs W has told us, I 
agree that she was. I say this because, at the time, a close relative (who was often a source 
of financial support to Mrs W) was receiving palliative care for a terminal illness and because 
of what Mrs W has told us about her own health. 
Its clear from what Mrs W has told us she told Nationwide she didnt want an overdraft 
initially, but later agreed to accept it as safety net. And although Mrs W has told us about 
her own health issues  its not clear how much of this was disclosed to Nationwide at the 
time of the application. And, even if it was, on its own I dont think this is a reason 
Nationwide shouldnt have agreed to lend to her.
Although Nationwide didnt conduct proportionate checks, if they had, I dont think this 
wouldve shown that the £2,250 overdraft was unaffordable. So I dont intend to uphold this 
part of Mrs Ws complaint. 
The £500 Overdraft
This application was made by Mrs W later the same day but online, after shed left her 
meeting at the branch. So after Nationwide had already agreed to lend Mrs W £2,250 via an 
overdraft and £7,000 on a credit card. 
Mrs W has said, based on what Nationwide had told her about the other credit offered that 
day, her mindset had changed and she now felt it would be a good idea to have an overdraft 
on her other account. 
Ive already explained why I dont think Nationwide conducted proportionate checks in 
relation to the first overdraft. And having reviewed the information related to checks they did 
for the £500 overdraft, Ive reached the same conclusion for the same reasons. 
Ive also already explained what Mrs Ws financial circumstances were at the time of the 
application. 
On this day Nationwide granted Mrs W three different pieces of credit. The first was the initial 
overdraft of £2,250 which as I've explained above, I think was fair. Following this, they then 
granted a credit card with a limit of £7,000 - I've addressed that in a separate decision, but 
found it wasn't lent fairly. Then a second overdraft for £500 was granted. At this time, Nationwide had already advanced £9,250 worth of credit - of which I don't think 
£7,000 was fair, so it follows I don't think the further borrowing, after this, of £500 was fair 
either. This is because Mrs W wouldnt have been able to repay it in a sustainable way  
taking into account the borrowing she already had at the point this lending was granted. So I 
intend to uphold this part of Mrs Ws complaint. 
As Mrs W knows, our Investigator asked Nationwide if theyd be willing to write her off debt 
(even though we werent recommending they did so). They said theyd be willing to consider 
a potential write off if Mrs W provided updated details of her current financial circumstances 
but Mrs W didnt want to do that. Thats her choice, but I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Nationwide to ask her for this information in order to assess whether they now want to write 
off the debt. 
Our investigator recommended any adverse information about Mrs Ws £500 overdraft 
should be removed from her credit file. And that is what wed normally expect a lender to do 
when were upholding a case on the basis of irresponsible or unaffordable lending. However, 
I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable thing to do here given the basis 
of Mrs Ws complaint is that she is vulnerable and struggles with managing her finances. 
This is, in part, a measure to protect Mrs W and potential future lenders - who will be able 
to see how shes managed the debts shes taken on. So I think its fair that Nationwide 
update Mrs Ws credit file if, having completed the steps below, it results in times when 
adverse information wouldnt have been recorded  but I dont plan to require them to 
remove all adverse information about the account.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W says she doesnt think my recommendations about what Nationwide should do in this 
case go far enough to put things right. In summary, she said this was because:
As I have found Nationwide did not conduct proportionate checks in relation to the 
£2,250 overdraft, this means Mrs Ws complaint about this lending should be upheld. 
She feels Ive acknowledged that they did something wrong but have not instructed 
them to do anything to put things right. 
Mrs W felt I had not considered what shed told us about her vulnerabilities and 
bankruptcy in conjunction with Nationwides failure to conduct proportionate checks. 
Mrs W considers all the lending offered to her on this occasion, the two overdraft 
facilities and the credit card  as one single offer of credit. 
Mrs W maintains that her vulnerability means both overdrafts shouldnt have been 
agreed and because of that, the debt should now be written off. 
Mrs W felt that we should tell Nationwide to write off the debt because we had 
ordered another financial business in another case to do so, in circumstances which 
Mrs W felt were similar to hers. 
Nationwide responded to say they had received the provisional decision but didnt add any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, as I had found Nationwide did not conduct 
proportionate checks  I then had to consider whether if they had done the appropriate checks this wouldve shown that Mrs W couldnt afford the £2,250 overdraft and therefore 
whether this would have made a difference to Mrs Ws overall position. And having 
considered this, I concluded that, in respect of the £2,250 overdraft, this was likely affordable 
for Mrs W and I didnt consider it was irresponsible to have agreed this because of her 
vulnerabilities and earlier bankruptcy for the reasons I explained. But I didnt think the £500 
overdraft shouldve been agreed. 
 
I understand why Mrs W feels this was a single offer of credit to her from Nationwide. But, in 
fact there were three separate credit applications (and three lending decisions) across three 
different accounts which is why weve considered each application in turn. Again, I explained 
in my provisional decision that these lending decisions were all made on the same day and 
that I had taken this into account in reaching my decision. 
Having re-considered everything in light of Mrs Ws comments, I still think the £2,250 
overdraft was not unaffordable or irresponsible for the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. Because of this, Im not requiring Nationwide to take any steps in 
respect of this overdraft. 
I also still find that the £500 overdraft shouldnt have been agreed by Nationwide. I 
understand why Mrs W might not feel that she benefitted from the money borrowed on this 
overdraft. But I still feel she did. By this I mean Mrs W used the overdraft to spend on goods 
and services. And its this shes had the benefit of  rather than lending itself being a direct 
benefit to her. I agree that the lending decision itself has caused her detriment and that she 
was vulnerable and this is reflected in my decision to require Nationwide to refund all interest 
and charges on this overdraft. But I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to require Nationwide to write off the money Mrs W spent on the £500 
overdraft.
 
Mrs W also felt that, based on another Ombudsmans decision in another case, her debt 
should be written off as we had directed the financial business to do so there. We deal with 
individual cases on their own merits so while Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments Im 
satisfied for the reasons Ive already explained what Im requiring Nationwide to do is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case. 
Finally, Mrs W made the point that she didnt intend to take out credit. I accept that wasnt 
the purpose of Mrs Ws visit to the branch on the day these overdrafts were taken. But, 
ultimately she did agree to take the overdrafts and so I dont think this makes a difference to 
the outcome of her complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mrs Ws account with the £500 overdraft. 
If this results in an outstanding balance, Nationwide should arrange a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs W. 
If the refund of interest and charges resulted in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, any additional funds should be paid to Mrs W and Nationwide should pay 
interest on this amount from the point Mrs W wouldve been in credit on her account 
at a rate of 8%. Any interest should be paid to Mrs W. 
Having completed this calculation, if there are times Nationwide wouldnt have 
recorded adverse information on Mrs Ws credit file, then they should make 
arrangements to update this with the credit reference agencies to remove the adverse data.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require 
Nationwide Building Society to take the steps set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman