DRN-4225249
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has refused to refund the 
money she has lost falling victim to a scam.
Mrs P is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mrs P 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, around July 2022 Mrs P was sent a link to a business (X) by an ex-colleague 
offering cryptocurrency investments and had a call with it. X explained an investment 
opportunity to Mrs P that she became interested in.
X helped Mrs P with the process of investing using the screen sharing application AnyDesk. 
Mrs P initially started by investing small amounts with X before moving on to invest larger 
amounts. The investments appeared to be doing well until September 2022 when X 
explained Mrs P had lost all her money due to a merger.
Mrs P was later contacted again by a someone posing as a legitimate business explaining 
that Mrs P would need to make further payments to release the balance of her account. Mrs 
P made the payments requested but her money was not released to her.
Mrs P then received a further email requesting even further payments. Mrs P spoke to a 
friend about what was happening and realised she had fallen victim to a scam. 
Mrs P made the following payments into the scam via her RBS account:
Date Payee Amount Payment Type 
3 August 2022 Bitnomics £1,000 Debit Card
4 August 2022 Bitnomics £1,500 Debit Card
4 August 2022 Bitnomics £3,499 Debit Card
8 November 2022 Bitnomics £2,699 Debit Card
8 November 2022 Bitnomics £4,000 Debit Card
10 November 2022 Bitnomics £3,900 Debit Card
10 November 2022 Bitnomics £3,100 Debit Card
14 November 2022 Bitnomics £4,873 Debit Card
14 November 2022 Bitnomics £3,499 Debit Card
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mrs P 
didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mrs P has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mrs P and RBS sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether RBS
should refund the money Mrs P lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mrs P made
Mrs P made the payments into the scam by debit card. When a payment is made by card the 
only option RBS has to recover the payment is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs P was dealing with the scammer, which was the business that instigated the scam. But 
Mrs P didnt make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, she paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange. This is important because RBS was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant she paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchange would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mrs Ps payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, it provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mrs P paid. Any chargeback 
attempt would likely fail.
Should RBS have prevented the payments Mrs P made? 
Mrs P has accepted she authorised the payments she made from her RBS account, so the 
starting point here is that Mrs P is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether RBS should have stepped in when Mrs P was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The first three payments Mrs P made into the scam, although made to a business that Mrs P 
hadnt previously paid, were for relatively low amounts. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
say RBS should stop payments every time one of its customers tries to pay a new business, 
especially when that business appeared to be genuine. 
Mrs P then tried to make a further payment on 10 August 2022 as directed by X to a different 
cryptocurrency exchange. This payment was blocked, and Mrs P spoke to RBS several 
times on 10 and 11 August 2022.
RBS explained that the payments Mrs P was making were likely related to a scam. RBS 
checked the FCA register and explained neither her broker nor X itself was registered with 
the FCA to give investment advice. It also explained that Mrs Ps description of what was 
happening matched that of a common scam.RBS went on to explain that Mrs P may even receive follow up communication from a further 
scam claiming to be able to recover her money, but this would usually require further 
payments first.
Mrs P seemed to accept the likelihood of the investment being a scam. She opened a scam 
case and agreed to have her debit card cancelled. Yet when Mrs P was contacted again in 
November 2022, she made further payments again using AnyDesk and the same 
cryptocurrency exchange previously used.
Considering the above I think RBS stepped in at a time I would have expected to prevent the 
payments Mrs P was making and gave a very clear scam warning, to the point Mrs P agreed 
to stop her card and have the scam investigated. Mrs P confirmed she would not be sending 
any more funds. 
I think RBS gave an adequate scam warning, so it was not responsible when Mrs P decided 
to make further payments in relation to the scam, and does not need to refund any payments 
to Mrs P.
RBS has paid Mrs P £75 compensation for customer service issues which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P has further said she was vulnerable at the time she made the payments, but I havent 
seen enough to show RBS should have been aware of any vulnerabilities, or that Mrs P was 
unable make daily decisions. So, this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman