DRN-3946443
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr S was looking to invest in cryptocurrency. Hes told us he had friends who had made 
good profits and traded as full-time jobs. Mr S has said hed previously invested a small 
amount, but due to his lack of knowledge and as he believed it was a risk, he didnt take 
things further.
In or around June 2021, Mr S saw an advert for investments on a well-known social media 
platform. Mr S has said he was particularly interested in the advert as it was offering a 
service that provided an adviser who would assist with trades. Hes told us that he followed 
the link on the advert and within a few minutes he received a call from somebody claiming to 
be from the Investment company.
The caller spoke to Mr S about the investments and signed him up to have a trading 
account, providing him with a username and password. Mr S has said he was able to log into 
his account and he reviewed the companys website  and this reassured him that things 
were genuine. Mr S was asked to make an initial payment of £250 to start trading, which he 
paid from an account he held with another provider. He was told that an account manager 
would be in contact to discuss future trades and plans. But unknown to Mr S at the time he 
was dealing with fraudsters.
Mr S has said he could see his initial deposit in his trading account and within a few days the 
£250 had increased to £600, which hes said provided him with confidence. Mr S was then 
contacted by a fraudster, posing as an account manager. Mr S told the fraudster he was 
saving for a house and had £20,000 put aside for this. The fraudster told Mr S that if he were 
to invest this money he would make profits of between £250,000 - £300,000 within a year. 
Mr S said this excited him, as he thought it would mean he could afford to buy a home.
The fraudster told Mr S he would need to invest a higher amount, so that he could achieve 
silver level, which would mean hed be able to make higher trades. He was told that if he 
invested on that day, he would be given a bonus of 45% on the amount he invested and be 
able to keep 100% of the profit he made on this bonus. Believing everything to be genuine, 
on 3 June 2021, Mr S went ahead and made a payment for £5,600 from his Revolut account.
Mr S made the payment to a cryptocurrency wallet that was in his name. But the fraudsters 
had asked Mr S to provide them with access to this account, through a remote desktop 
application, so that they could move the money and trade on his behalf. From Mr S 
cryptocurrency wallet the fraudsters were able to move the funds into accounts they 
controlled. 
Following this payment, Mr S was able to see his investment grow and was encouraged to 
invest more and went on to make two further payments to the fraudsters; for £4,300 on      
10 June 2021 and for £9,520 on 25 June 2021. Mr S made payments totalling £19,420 from 
his Revolut account.
Mr S has said hed asked to withdraw some money from his account previously, but was 
always persuaded to keep it in the investment. But he began to realise things werent right 
when he asked to withdraw some money, but was told hed need to make another payment 
in order to do so. Mr S didnt have any more money that he could pay, and on telling the 
fraudsters this, Mr S has said they became aggressive and cut any further contact with him. 
Mr S raised the matter with Revolut through its in-app chat. Revolut looked into Mr Ss 
complaint and issued its final response on 22 July 2022 not upholding his complaint. In 
summary, it said it was sorry to hear of the events that had happened to Mr S. But that the 
fraudulent operations happened outside of its systems, so it didnt believe it should be held 
liable. It added that, before hed made his first transaction, it had declined the payment and 
warned him about scams. It said Mr S hadnt performed any due diligence and it doesnt 
believe it missed a chance to prevent the money being lost. Revolut said it had tried to 
recover the money Mr S had lost from the beneficiary account, but had been unable to 
recover any money.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, through his representatives, Mr S then brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, she thought the first payment Mr S made to 
the fraudsters ought to have flagged as out of character and that Revolut should have 
intervened further than it did. She thought that further intervention would have made a 
difference. So our investigator thought Revolut was, at least partially, liable for the loss.
But our investigator also thought Mr S should hold some responsibility for his loss. This was 
because she thought there was enough going on for him to have had concerns about what 
he was being told. She didnt think the returns he was being told he would achieve were 
plausible and that also being told he would get a 45% bonus, commission free, all sounded 
too good to be true. Our Investigator said this should have caused Mr S to pause and further 
question what he was being told, but she couldnt see he had taken any steps to confirm 
things.
Overall, it was our Investigators view that Revolut should refund Mr S with 50% of the 
money he lost, along with interest from the dates the payments were made.
Revolut responded to our Investigators view. In summary, it said it didnt believe any further 
intervention from it would have made a difference and that it did try and stop the first 
transfer, by declining it. But it did propose that liability could be shared for the transfers 
where there was no intervention on its part. In view of this it made an offer to refund Mr S 
50% of the second and third transfers hed made.
Our Investigator put this offer to Mr S but, through his representative, he rejected the offer 
and also didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary he said that English is not his 
first language and he is not native to the UK. As such, he thought it unreasonable to suggest 
he should have known what a reasonable rate of return was, especially considering he had 
never invested previously.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
From looking at Mr S account statements in the months leading up to the scam, Im 
persuaded the payments Mr S made to the fraudsters werent typical of his usual account 
activity. There isnt really any disagreement about this point, as Revolut has confirmed the 
first transfer for £5,600 was flagged and declined by its systems. With this in mind, I have to 
consider whether Revolut did enough once it suspected there was a high risk of fraud. 
Revolut has said the following warning was displayed when it declined the first payment     
Mr S attempted: 
Review transfer
 
Our systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to protect 
you. If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. As 
we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the payment, if the 
person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all you your money and never get it 
back. You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
I acknowledge Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to 
detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of 
fraud and for when it ought to intervene. And I accept that a bank does have a duty under 
the Payment Service Regulations not to delay payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an 
unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable checks are also required as part of the broad 
regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or 
financial harm.Im mindful there is a limit as to what a Firm can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers 
to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly even bear a reduction in 
compensation if there is clear evidence of blame on their own part (see below). But when 
plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account activity exist, its not unreasonable to 
expect a Firms fraud alerts to respond proportionately  and that might simply include, for 
example, a phone call, in app chat or discreet conversation for transactions in branch to 
check that things are okay.
In the individual circumstances of this case, I dont think the warning Revolut presented went 
far enough and Im persuaded it ought, fairly and reasonably, to have done more here. 
Banks are expected to carry out the payment instructions it receives from its customers. But, 
as Ive mentioned, that isnt without exception and the broad regulatory landscape obliges 
banks to protect its customers from fraud and financial harm.
The warning Mr S was given was very generic and didnt highlight what the risks of making 
the payment might be. Mr S was given no context as to what Revolut thought might be 
wrong or how he might protect himself (aside from simply not proceeding). Without proactive 
steps to break the spell of fraudsters, customers will often proceed with the payment they 
are making. They are unaware that they are caught up in the scam. And when sophisticated 
elements such as fake trading accounts and professional looking websites are involved, then 
the scam becomes significantly more persuasive. A generic and unspecific warning is 
unlikely to have the required impact on a customer that has been manipulated into action 
through a combination of sophisticated means.
Had Revolut intervened further, as I think it ought to have done, Im persuaded, on balance, 
it more likely than not it would have made the difference and I dont think Mr S would have 
gone ahead with the payments. I say that as Mr S wasnt given a cover story by the 
fraudsters, so I think he would have answered any questions Revolut put to him freely. I 
think Mr S would have told Revolut he was intending to invest and what returns he could 
achieve. With this, I think the level of returns would have seemed so implausible to Revolut, 
that, as the professional in these matters, Im persuaded it would have sounded very much 
like a scam to it. So much so, that I think it would have persuaded Mr S not to continue with 
the payments and therefore preventing his losses from this point. Mr S has said he 
recognised that investing was risky, so I dont think he would have wanted to jeopardise 
losing such a considerable amount of money, if his Bank had clearly warned him about the 
common features of investment scams and how they related to the payment he was 
intending to make.
For this reason I think Revolut is, at least in part, liable for the money Mr S has lost from the 
first payment he made.
 
Should Mr S bear some responsibility for his losses?
I also need to consider whether Mr S ought to bear some responsibility for the losses he 
incurred.
Having thought about this carefully, Im persuaded that the evidence suggests that when    
Mr S made these payments there was enough going on that he ought fairly and reasonably 
to have proceeded with more caution than he did.
I say that because I think the suggested profit of in excess of 1000%, within such a short 
period of time, seemed so outlandish and implausible that it ought to have concerned Mr S   
and led him to take more steps to ensure he was making a genuine investment. I cant see 
that Mr S was provided with, or asked for, a persuasive answer as to how these level of returns could be possible, rather he seems to have accepted what he was being told at face 
value.
I dont doubt the offer of such returns would have appeared enticing, but considering how 
high these returns were, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr S to have looked into 
things further before proceeding. Especially considering that hes said he had specifically put 
this money aside to buy a home and no doubt the amounts he went on to pay represented 
significant sums to him. And with his lack of investment experience, I think its fair and 
reasonable to have expected Mr S to be more prudent in establishing the risks of the 
investment he was about to make.
Coupled with this, Im not persuaded a legitimate Investment company would offer a bonus 
that matched almost 50% of an investment, seemingly without there being any gain in it for 
the Investment company. Im persuaded that what was being offered was simply too good to 
be true.
My reasoning above relates mainly to the first payment Mr S has made, but it also follows for 
the further payments he went on to make. And alongside this, when Mr S went on to make 
his further payments, he had, by this time, also been persuaded by the fraudsters to not 
withdraw funds, when hed asked to. But I cant see that he questioned this, when I think he 
reasonably ought to have done.
Given the rate of returns that were being offered and that Mr S was being asked, through a 
remote desktop application, to hand over full control of the cryptocurrency wallet to the 
fraudster. I think Mr S should have had some concerns about the legitimacy of the 
investment and who he was dealing with and he should have made further checks before 
proceeding. But it appears Mr S didnt do any checks outside of looking at what he was 
presented with by the fraudsters.
Ive considered that Mr Ss representatives have argued that he was vulnerable. Its said due 
to his lack of English skills and not being native to the UK it would be unreasonable and 
unfair to suggest he should have known what a reasonable rate of return was, especially as 
he had never invested previously. But I dont agree that the submissions Mr S has presented 
to us supports this argument.
I say that because, by his own admission, Mr S has told us he had invested previously, albeit 
a much smaller amount, and that he was aware of what the risks were. So I think its more 
likely than not Mr S would also have been aware of what a reasonable return could be. 
Alongside this, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr S not being a native to the UK 
has been a barrier to him. Hes been able to identify an investment that interested him, 
complete an online enquiry form and has told us he built a good relationship with the 
fraudsters, sharing photos of his family and talking to them about his plans. Alongside this, 
the evidence Ive seen of his interactions with Revolut, dont indicate, in my mind, that Mr Ss 
circumstances are in anyway hindering his interactions with it.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to share the 
responsibility with Revolut and to reduce the refund on the payments Ive pinpointed above 
by 50%.
Finally, Im satisfied that there would have been no prospect of recovering Mr Ss funds in 
these circumstances  given that they were moved on from a cryptocurrency platform, in 
cryptocurrency, to the fraudsters.Putting things right
For the reasons explained, Revolut should now;
- refund 50% of the money he lost (being 50% of £19,420)
- pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date of transactions to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman