DRN-4340195
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect her from losing 
money to scammers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mrs C has said that through April to June 2022 she made numerous 
payments from her Nationwide account that were ultimately lost to scammers. 
Nationwide ultimately didnt reimburse Mrs Cs lost funds, and Mrs C referred her complaint 
about Nationwide to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mrs C and Nationwide my provisional decision on 4 August 2023. Now that both 
parties have had an opportunity to reply, Im ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. Ive explained the reasons for my decision again below, with 
some further comment where I have deemed it appropriate to address Mrs Cs response to 
my provisional decision. 
First, let me clarify the alleged scams this decision is about. Mrs C has referred to two sets 
of payments: one going to an alleged investment scam orchestrated by who Ill call F; and 
another set being lost to a romance/recovery scam (which Ill call the recovery scam). The 
parties will be aware that previously our Investigator, in this case, considered and shared 
their view on the investment scam only. This was because, at that time, Mrs Cs complaint 
about Nationwide concerning the recovery scam was with us as a separate case. However, 
since both scams are inherently linked, its appropriate for them to be considered together. 
So thats what Ive done in this decision. I understand the parties will have been previously 
advised this would happen.
Mrs Cs submissions are that: (1) she lost payments from her Nationwide account totalling 
£167,050 from 8 April 2022 to 17 June 2022 to the investment scam; and (2) she lost 
payments from her Nationwide account totalling £102,100 from 9 May 2022 to 9 June 2022 
to the recovery scam. 
I understand all payments were made to CB Payments to fund Mrs Cs Coinbase account, 
from where Mrs C then sent them onto the scammers. In the case of the investment scam, 
the payments were sent on from Mrs Cs Coinbase account to F to fund her trading account 
with F. In the case of the recovery scam, the payments were sent on from Mrs Cs Coinbase 
account to the recovery scammers for various parts of the recovery process.
Im really sorry Mrs C lost this money. This was an incredibly large amount of money to lose 
to scams. Fraud of this type can be deeply upsetting, and she has my heartfelt sympathy. 
However, this doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from Nationwide. It would only be 
fair for me to tell Nationwide to reimburse Mrs C some or all of her funds if I thought it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments in the first place, or it unreasonably 
hindered recovery of the funds after the payments had been made; and if I was satisfied, 
overall, that this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Im sorry as I know Mrs C will be extremely disappointed. Ive thought about this case really 
carefully. Unfortunately for Mrs C, I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to reimburse 
her. Ill explain why.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mrs C authorised the relevant payments. Nationwide would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs C is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That 
said, as a matter of good industry practice Nationwide should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there 
are many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to 
expect Nationwide to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case, it wasnt unusual for large payments to be made from Mrs Cs account and 
sometimes quite regularly. For example: 
two payments totalling £13,750 on 28 March 2022;
two payments totalling £8,500 on 25 February 2022;
three payments totalling £30,000 on 3 February 2022;
one payment of £4,502.80 on 14 January 2022;
a transfer for £32,500 on 12 January 2022;
four payments totalling £46,000 on 23 and 24 December 2021;
a payment of £8,000 to CB Payments on 12 February 2021;
a payment of £1,000 to CB Payments on 8 February 2021;
a payment of £1,000 to CB Payments on 3 February 2021.
The payments Mrs C made as a result of the scams between April 2022 and June 2022 
were generally for large amounts too (of the 34 payments to the scams, 20 were for 
£10,000). And they were often very closely spaced in time. So I dont think the prior 
payments Ive listed above absolved Nationwide from its obligations to appropriately 
intervene in the scam payments. Ultimately, however, Nationwide did intervene. 
Unfortunately, as the parties are aware, this didnt lead to the prevention of Mrs Cs 
payments to the scams. Of course this doesnt automatically mean Mrs Cs complaint should 
fail. Particularly, Ive thought very carefully about whether Nationwide intervened 
appropriately when it did do so, whether Nationwide reasonably ought to have intervened 
further or at a different stage (earlier for example)  and whether any of this is likely to have 
made a difference. 
In my view, the key issue in this case is whether Mrs C was open with Nationwide when it 
did intervene; and if she wasnt open with Nationwide then, whether this would most likely have been different if Nationwide had intervened more than it did or at a different stage. I say 
this because, given what Mrs C has now said and submitted about F and the recovery scam, 
Im satisfied that if Nationwide had been able to obtain the real context behind Mrs Cs 
payments at the time, it most likely would have been able to prevent Mrs Cs further 
payments, or at the very least give Mrs C the sternest warning possible that she was being 
scammed and should stop making the payments. This is because Nationwide would, or 
ought to, have been well aware of scams like this where the customer is asked by the 
scammers to first transfer money to crypto accounts in the customers own name before, 
only then, transferring the cryptocurrency onto the scammers from there. F and the recovery 
scam had clear signs of being scams that I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to miss. 
However, if Mrs C wasnt upfront with Nationwide about the real reason for her payments, 
Nationwides ability to warn Mrs C, and make a difference, would have been limited.  
With all of this in mind, Ive listened very carefully to the recordings of calls Nationwide had 
with Mrs C on 3 May 2022, (I understand Mrs Cs representative has been provided with a 
copy of these also). The salient call is the one that lasted approximately seven minutes. In 
this call:
Nationwide said it was calling to talk about recent account activity. It explained there 
had been a lot of crypto-related payments on her account. It asked her about loans 
(from other lenders) that had just hit her account, and she said these were for home 
improvements. Mrs C said she did have crypto with Coinbase and she put money in 
there every now and again to have a dabble. 
Nationwide said it sees so many different types of crypto scams and the market is 
very volatile even when things are genuine, so it wanted to make sure she wasnt 
taking out loans to put into crypto. Mrs C answered very clearly no, thats not what 
she was doing (taking out loans to invest in crypto); and that she only transferred into 
Coinbase, which was her own account, with which she did her own thing. Nationwide 
then asked Mrs C if it was her own wallet that no one else has control of (which 
Mrs C said it was), since, it told Mrs C, it sees a lot of customers who find or see 
things online, or theyre contacted, and essentially they dont have control of the 
wallet, or when they try and take money out they have difficulty doing so. 
Nationwide then said, so about these payments today, theres one going to Revolut, 
and theres another one going to Nexo; are these payments for an investment with 
crypto? Mrs C said, no, not yet, but she does have separate accounts now because 
its easier for her, now shes getting more used to it. She said one of the accounts 
was going to have money put into it for savings really, because she finds with her 
Nationwide account money, she can too easily spend it. 
Nationwide then wanted to check with Mrs C, with regards to the crypto, that she 
understood the liability and risks and everything involved. Mrs C said, yes, definitely, 
100%, yes, thats why I only do it with Coinbase and I only do it myself.  Nobody 
influences me or helps me, or anything. Its my own doing. 
Nationwide asked Mrs C whether she was happy she can afford the loans (to which 
Mrs C said yes) and that shes not reliant on crypto to pay them back, to which Mrs C 
replied No, no, definitely not.
Bearing in mind the answers Mrs C gave on this call, previous large payments out of her 
account that werent scam related, and the fact Mrs C had previously, over a year before, 
paid money to her Coinbase account, I dont think Nationwides intervention was 
unreasonable. Mrs Cs representative has said Nationwide, during the call, focussed a lot on Mrs C having 
control of and access to the wallet (which she did), and that had it given more relevant 
warnings, this would have made a difference. However, Im satisfied Mrs C was intent on the 
call not to be upfront with Nationwide, and she did so in a way that was convincing. She 
didnt reveal what we now know she asserts about the loans. She misled Nationwide by 
stating that she was investing in crypto on her own accord, without help or influence from 
anyone else. And Im not persuaded there is anything Nationwide could have said that is 
likely to have changed Mrs Cs intention to not be open with Nationwide and to ensure the 
payments were made.
Neither have I seen anything that persuades me Mrs C is likely to have reacted materially 
differently if Nationwide had intervened at an earlier or later stage. I can see from the 
evidence submitted that Mrs C appears to have been contacted by the recovery scammers 
on 4 May 2022 (just one day after the above call with Nationwide). But I am mindful that the 
evidence Ive seen around the recovery scam indicates it had a certain undercover flavour to 
it (for example, that a judge would be paid). I also note that even after Mrs C ceased 
payments to the recovery scam, she continued the payments to F, not only from her 
Nationwide account, but also from her Revolut account. 
Ive thought very carefully about the points Mrs Cs representative has made in response to 
my provisional decision. In summary, its said Nationwide ought to have seen Mrs C had 
sent over a quarter of a million pounds to crypto which is inherently high risk and would carry 
an elevated likelihood of being related to a fraud or scam, and that this was at odds with 
Mrs Cs claim she didnt have much investment experience and only dabbled; and 
Nationwide also ought to have seen she had used debt to fund some of the transactions. 
Mrs Cs representative has also said that Nationwide ought to have been well aware Mrs C 
might not be upfront during any intervention calls if she was being scammed (given how, 
Nationwide would understand, scams like this often play out); that its possible to hear on the 
intervention call (referred to above) that Nationwide had doubts about Mrs Cs situation; that 
the short intervention call wasnt sufficient in the circumstances; and that Nationwide should 
consequently have triggered Banking Protocol, which, it says, most likely would have 
prevented the payments.
I have taken these points on board, but payments to crypto arent always made as a result of 
a scam of course. And Mrs C had over a year previously (in February 2021) made payments 
to her Coinbase account already. Also, as already stated, prior to the scam payments it 
wasnt unusual for large payments to be made from Mrs Cs account and sometimes quite 
regularly. Also, whilst I would expect Nationwide to understand that its not uncommon for 
victims of scams like this to not be upfront with their banks about the real reasons for their 
payments, I think Mrs C was persuasive during the call. And whilst Im satisfied it was 
appropriate for Nationwide to intervene as it did, Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold it responsible for not doing more.
I have to be fair. And on the evidence before me, Im not persuaded a reasonable level of 
intervention from Nationwide at any stage is likely to have made a difference here. The 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs C was intent on making the payments 
and not being open with Nationwide, and that she likely would have done so anyway. 
However, for the sake of completeness, even if I thought Nationwide had unreasonably 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payments (which I dont), I think Mrs C acted with such 
lack of care in not being open with Nationwide and continuing to make the payments as Ive 
described above, that, even then, it would not have been fair, in this case, to ask Nationwide 
to reimburse her. Recovery
The scam payments were sent from Nationwide to a Coinbase account in Mrs Cs name, 
from where she then moved the funds onto the scammers. I dont think its surprising 
Nationwide was unable to recover the funds in these circumstances. And Im satisfied I cant 
say Nationwide unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds, nor therefore that it can be 
held responsible for Mrs C not being able to recover the funds.
I realise this means Mrs C is substantially out of pocket, and Im really very sorry shes lost 
money. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can reasonably tell 
Nationwide to reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman