DRN-3603973
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Oodle Financial Services Limited (which Ill refer to as Oodle) 
handled his concerns about the quality of a car he took on finance from it and about his 
handling of the finance for a replacement vehicle.  
What happened
In September 2021 Mr W entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a 
used car. The agreement recorded that the car was six years old and had covered 81,730 
miles. The monthly payments would be £390. 
At the end of November 2021 Mr W reported concerns with the car. Specifically, he said that 
the steering was stiff and that the car had not been serviced, even though the dealership 
which supplied it said that it had been. 
Oodle said that, in order to consider Mr Ws complaint properly, it would require a diagnosis 
of the problems he had reported. Mr W said however that he was not willing to pay for that to 
happen. The dealership agreed to meet the costs of a one-hour diagnosis. Mr W wanted that 
to take place at a main agent, and it appears that this caused some delays. And, when the 
diagnosis was scheduled, it was not completed. 
The dealership did however agree shortly after the incomplete inspection that it would accept 
the return of the car and pay Oodle the outstanding finance. The car was collected from Mr 
W on 19 January 2022.
In the meantime, Mr W found a suitable replacement, which Oodle again agreed to finance. 
It was however several hours from his home. He says that Oodle delayed releasing funds to 
the new dealership. The result was that he was kept waiting for many hours and had to drive 
the car home late at night, having been awake since the early hours of the morning. 
Oodle considered Mr Ws complaints about both issues  the quality of the first car; and the 
delay in releasing funds for the second car. 
In respect of the first issue, it said that it had agreed to rejection of the car as a gesture of 
goodwill. It had refunded a total of £787, covering fuel in the car on its return, car hire costs, 
a refund of hire payments and compensation for the inconvenience Mr W had suffered. It 
said that its usual practice in such cases was to charge the customer 25p per mile; the car 
had travelled a little over 2,500 miles in the time Mr W had it, so that amounted to £625, 
which had been taken into account. 
In respect of the delays in collecting the replacement car, Oodle paid Mr W £350. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened but thought that Oodle had done enough to resolve things. 
Mr W did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. If goods are not of satisfactory quality, a consumer generally has a choice of 
remedies, including rejection or repair. 
Mr Ws first complaint was that the car was not of satisfactory quality. Because the 
inspection report was not completed, the evidence about its quality is, in my view, 
inconclusive. I do not believe, however, that I need to make any findings on that issue in 
order to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Thats because the dealership and Oodle agreed to 
accept the return of the car and, in effect, to unwind the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr W is unhappy that Oodle described the decision to take the car back as a gesture of 
goodwill. All it means however is that Oodle chose to take the steps it did without admitting 
that it did anything wrong. That is a very common way of resolving disputes and was not 
unreasonable in this case. 
I should however consider whether the steps that Oodle took to unwind the agreement were 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
As well as arranging for the car to be collected, it reimbursed Mr W for the cost of a hire car, 
paid for the fuel which was in the car when it was returned, and paid him compensation for 
the inconvenience to which he was put. 
Oodle also agreed to refund the monthly hire payments Mr W had paid. It said however that 
Mr W should pay something for the use of the car, calculated at 25p a mile. I calculate the 
difference between the hire payments and the payment based on mileage to be £545 in 
favour of Mr W. That was included in the payment of £787. 
Mr W says that the payment based on mileage was unfair. I believe however that he should 
pay something for the use of the car, and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 expressly allows 
for that. I dont believe that the mileage rate Oodle used was unreasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this case. And the mileage itself was based on the stated mileage in the 
hire purchase agreement and an odometer reading which Mr W provided shortly before the 
car was collected. I am satisfied it was correctly calculated. 
The car was collected ten days after Oodle and the dealership agreed that it could be 
returned. In that time, they had to agree the payment due from the dealership and make 
practical arrangements for collection. I dont believe the time taken was unreasonable. 
As far as the delay in collecting the replacement car is concerned, Oodle has accepted that 
the payment was delayed and that this in turn meant that Mr W had to wait for several hours 
for the car to be released by the dealership. It acknowledged that this caused Mr W distress 
and inconvenience and paid Mr W £350. In the circumstances, I believe that was fair 
compensation.             My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Oodle Financial Services Limited  
to do anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman