DRN-2732001
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his Loyalty Saver account.
Mr D is assisted in this matter by Mrs R.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr D complained to Nationwide about several issues, including the interest 
rates offered on its savings accounts and the customer service hed received from its 
advisers. Some of these issues form the subject of a separate complaint with this service. 
Upon receipt of these complaints, Nationwide contacted Mr D acknowledging that he 
seemed unhappy with the service it was providing, given that hed raised a number of 
complaints within a short period of time. It suggested that he may wish to make alternative 
arrangements for his banking with another financial provider. 
Mr D was unhappy about this and raised further complaints with Nationwide. Following this, 
Nationwide gave Mr D two months notice that it would be closing his Loyalty Saver account. 
Ultimately, in January 2021, it closed the account and made arrangements to transfer the 
existing funds in the account elsewhere for Mr D.
Mr D was unhappy with this and complained to Nationwide. He said he wasnt given any 
indication that raising complaints would result in his account being closed. Nationwide didnt 
think it had treated Mr D unfairly. It said that the relationship had broken down between 
them, evidenced by the volume of complaints Mr D had made. Unhappy with its response, 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Whilst the complaint was with this service, Mr D 
wrote a letter about what had happened to Nationwides directors, but was unhappy that they 
didnt reply to him.
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr D 
unfairly. She thought that it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude the relationship 
had broken down, given it was clear that it was no longer meeting Mr Ds customer service 
needs. She acknowledged that Mr D wanted a response to his complaint letter from 
Nationwides directors, but this wasnt in line with Nationwides processes. And, Mr D had 
received a response in writing to all his concerns from the complaints team, which she 
thought was reasonable.
Nationwide didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr D did. Mrs R wrote to us on 
his behalf and, amongst other points, explained that Mr D had viewed the complaints hed 
raised as feedback, which Nationwide supposedly welcomed. Mrs R also explained that 
Mr D was a long-standing customer of Nationwide, so its decision to close his account had a 
considerable impact on his life.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has referenced a number of issues in his correspondence with this service, including 
several of the individual complaint points that hes raised with Nationwide. Whilst Ive read all 
of these, this decision focuses on the closure of Mr Ds Loyalty Saver account, and those 
issues that are materially relevant to that. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account say that Nationwide can close a customers 
account by giving at least two months notice. Nationwide wrote to Mr D on 24 November 
2020 to provide notice that it was going to close his account on 25 January 2021. So, Im 
satisfied Nationwide gave Mr D the correct notice in line with its terms.
Nationwide isnt obliged to give a reason why it wants to stop providing an account to a 
customer but, in this instance, it has been clear with Mr D about its reasons. Nationwide has 
explained that Mr D raised several complaints within a short period of time. In September 
and October 2020, it noted that Mr D raised five separate complaints. It has also pointed out 
that within these complaints were several smaller complaints, some of which were repeated 
despite having had a response on the matter. As a result, Nationwide concluded that the 
relationship between itself and Mr D had broken down. Given the circumstances and the 
number of complaints raised, I dont consider this an unreasonable conclusion to draw. 
Mr D says he wasnt aware that making complaints could result in an account being closed. 
He also says he wasnt given fair warning about what might happen if he continued making 
complaints. In a response to some of Mr Ds complaints, Nationwide wrote him a letter dated 
2 October 2020. In this letter, Nationwide said:
Its clear from our records that youve been unhappy with several elements of the 
service weve providedwhilst we fully acknowledge your right to complain, we 
would also ask that a reasonable expectation and tolerance is keptat this point, it 
does appear that we are unable to meet your expectations and therefore you may 
wish to make alternative arrangements for your banking with another financial 
provider
Then, following further complaints from Mr D and responses to these, Nationwide wrote 
another letter on 24 November 2020 which said:
As we feel our relationship with you has broken down, irretrievably, weve taken the 
difficult decision to close your accountHowever, if you feel we can continue our 
relationship in a more positive way, contact me on the above number and Id be 
happy to discuss this with you
I think Nationwide went some way to let Mr D know that the relationship between them was 
breaking down. Despite this, Nationwide appeared to be open to repairing the relationship 
and moving forward in a more positive way. But following this letter, Mr D made more 
complaints.
I want to be clear that Im not saying Mr D cant make complaints, and this is something 
Nationwide has also outlined. And Im aware that Mr D says the complaints he raised were a 
form of feedback to help Nationwide improve its service. But I also have to consider both the 
frequency and the nature of the complaints Mr D was making  some of which Nationwide 
had already responded to multiple times.
Nationwide addressed Mr Ds complaints in line with its processes. But it also became 
concerned it wasnt providing a service that Mr D was happy with, so it took the decision to 
close his account. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision, or one that it took lightly. I also think it was clear with Mr D that this might happen if it couldnt meet his service 
expectations. As I understand it, Mr D is also unhappy that Nationwide has denied him the 
possibility of opening another account. But given that Nationwide had considered the 
relationship between them had broken down, I dont think this is unreasonable either.
Mr D says that he is a long-standing customer of Nationwide, and the closure of his account 
has had a considerable impact on his life and his health in particular. I was sorry to hear of 
the effect the circumstances had on Mr D, and I do acknowledge that the closure of his 
account must have very been upsetting for him. As I understand it, Mr D would like this 
service to make Nationwide reinstate his account, not least because hes concerned that he 
may no longer be able to attend Nationwides public meetings with directors if his account 
has been closed. I understand that being a member of the Society is important to Mr D. 
However, for the reasons set out above, I wont be asking Nationwide to reopen his account, 
or ask it to open a new account for him.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman