DRN-1768678
The complaint
Miss T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NW) lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says at the time of her loan application she was suffering from depression and was reliant on 
benefits. Shes also unhappy that a payment offer she made was declined.
What happened
In early 2018 Miss T applied online for a loan of £7000. On her application, Miss T stated 
that she was a homemaker with a monthly income of £1092 and living in rented 
accommodation.
NW asked Miss T to provide further information about her rental agreement and her income. 
It also carried out a credit check. Following this, NW approved the loan.
Miss T subsequently experienced financial difficulties and approached a debt charity with 
whose help she approached NW to agree a payment plan.
Miss T later complained to NW. She feels that it shouldnt have lent to her because she was 
suffering from depression at the time she applied for the loan and her income was solely 
derived from benefits. She asked for the loan to be written off.
In response, NW said Miss T hadnt made it aware that she was suffering from depression 
and that it accepted benefits as income for borrowing purposes.
Miss T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Shes unhappy that 
NW didnt accept her payment offer and feels that the lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator explained that this service couldnt look at the part of Miss Ts complaint 
which related to the payment offer because shed brought her complaint more than 6 months 
after NW had issued its final response to this. In relation to the complaint about irresponsible 
lending, the investigator said there was nothing to suggest that Miss T had made NW aware 
of her depression prior to or at the time of applying for the loan. She also said that the 
checks NW had carried out at the time of the loan application didnt show anything that 
wouldve stopped it lending to Miss T. 
Miss T didnt agree. She said she wasnt under an obligation to tell NW about her depression 
and that she was overdrawn at the time she applied for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss T feels strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But taking 
everything both she and NW have said into account, I dont think NW has done anything 
wrong. I recognise that Miss T will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why I 
dont uphold the complaint.
The crux of Miss Ts complaint is that she feels that NW shouldnt have lent to her because 
she was solely dependent on benefits and overdrawn on her current account. Shes also 
explained that she was suffering from depression at the time she applied for the loan.
NW has said that Miss T didnt tell them she was suffering from depression. Miss T has said 
that she wasnt obliged to provided NW with this information. I agree that Miss T is entitled to 
keep this information confidential and, in this case,, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
she told NW about it. However, I dont think NW needed to consider whether Miss T was 
suffering from depression because she hadnt told them about it. Even if Miss T had made 
NW aware of her illness, I dont think this would be stopped NW lending to her. This is 
because theres an obligation on a lender to treat all customers fairly and to consider 
affordability and credit history as well as personal circumstances.
In relation to Miss Ts financial circumstances, NW has said that benefits are taken into 
account for income purposes, so it wouldnt decline a loan application for this reason. Id 
expect NW to consider a request for borrowing from someone whose income was derived 
from benefits in the same way as it would any other customer. That is, it should take account 
of the relevant information provided by the customer and carry out appropriate affordability 
checks.
Having reviewed Miss Ts  statements, I can see she was receiving regular income from 
benefits. NW was entitled to take this into consideration as a legitimate form of income. So I 
dont think NW shouldve declined Miss Ts application for the reason that she was solely 
dependent on benefits.
Before approving Miss Ts loan application, Id expect NW to assess Miss Ts ability to repay 
the loan. Based on the information provided by NW, Im satisfied that it carried out 
appropriate affordability checks which Miss T passed. So, Im of the view that NW assessed 
Miss Ts application as Id expect it to.
When Miss T applied for the loan, theres no evidence that she had adverse credit recorded. 
I appreciate she had a current account with NW which was overdrawn at the time she 
applied for the loan. However, the current account was within its lending limits and on the 
occasions when the overdraft had been exceeded it had been brought back within limits 
within a reasonable time. So overall and taking into account all of the financial information 
NW looked at, I dont think theres anything which should have caused the bank concern.
I can see that some defaults appeared on Miss Ts credit file the month after the loan was 
approved. Theres nothing to suggest that NW couldve known about these at the time of the 
loan and I cant see that Miss T told NW (at the time of the application) that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think theres any evidence to suggest that NW lent to 
Miss T irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman