DRN-2223824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society (trading as Cheshire Building Society) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy in 1992. They recall the sale took place in one of
the societys branches when they applied for a mortgage. The policy was in Mr Gs sole 
name. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount 
for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where there is limited information and where some of the evidence is
incomplete or contradictory, I have to reach my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they were told their mortgage application was more likely to be accepted if 
they took out PPI. Nationwide disagrees and says it would have provided enough 
information to allow Mr and Mrs G to decide whether to take the cover or not. I cant know 
what was said in the meeting and Nationwide no longer has their paperwork from the sale. 
But thats not unreasonable or surprising given how long ago the sale was. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr and Mrs G recall, but I also have to take into account how long ago 
the sale was and how that might affect what they remember. Overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly conclude Nationwide failed to make it clear the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree to take it out for Mr G.
Mr and Mrs G say they were given advice to have the PPI, but I havent seen any evidence 
that Nationwide looked at their individual circumstances and then recommended the cover to 
them. So, on balance, I dont think Nationwide recommended the policy. This means it didnt 
have to check the policy was right for Mr G. It did however have to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so they could make a properly informed choice. And 
its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs G as much information as it shouldve done. 
But I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this 
because:
Mr G was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main
things not covered by the policy.
Mr G was self-employed and so had no sick pay entitlement. The PPI wouldve paid 
out for all sickness and accident claims for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 
months redundancy cover, and it was no harder for him to make an unemployment 
claim than an employed policyholder. Mr G said they had savings worth between 
three and six months salary. But the PPI would have allowed them to use these for 
other living expenses whilst Mr G wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their 
future needs. Mr and Mrs G were borrowing a large amount over a long period, 
secured on their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think PPI couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs G if Mr G was sick or lost 
his job. And they were paying for it monthly, so if they no longer wanted it or their 
circumstances changed, they could cancel without incurring any further cost.
It seems the PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered and Ive seen no 
evidence it was unaffordable, so I dont think better cost information wouldve 
changed their decision.
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs G any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should 
also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this 
it need take no further action, if it has not yet made this payment it should do so now.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman