DRN-2352770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision 
to decline a claim for storm damage. Mr W made a claim under a joint home insurance policy 
with Mrs W.
What happened
Mr W reported damage to his home to RSA in July 2019. He said following a heavy storm, 
water had come through the roof. RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect Mr Ws home. The 
surveyor reported that the roof was damaged due to the roofs build being of poor 
workmanship and that storm conditions wasnt the main cause. RSA settled Mr Ws claim for 
internal damage under the contents section of his policy. But it said the damage to the roof 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr W made arrangements for the roof to be repaired. But he thought RSAs decision was 
unfair and so he asked us to look at his complaint. He wants RSA to reimburse him for the 
roof repairs.
Our investigator asked the three questions we ask when dealing with complaints about storm 
damage claims. After considering these questions and all of the information available, he 
thought RSA had acted reasonably. However, he thought that in this case, the correct 
exclusion was for defective design due to poor workmanship.
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he says he couldnt have known about workmanship issue 
when the roof was built thirty years before. He believes his claim is valid as caused by storm 
conditions. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy with RSA says it will cover insured perils such as storm. It isnt 
enough to say that because storm conditions occurred around the time of the damage, a 
claim is valid. Sometimes a storm can highlight a pre-existing issue. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. So its not unusual for insurers 
to have limitations and exclusions to the cover they provide. RSA has applied the following 
general exclusion when it rejected Mr Ws claim.
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly 
by or resulting from wear and tear, viruses, disease, depreciation, repairs necessary 
in the normal course of maintenance, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin 
(except for cover 4 under the Home Emergency Option), fungus, condensation, 
fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, 
repair, alteration, renovation or restoration.
RSA concluded that Mr Ws claim wasnt covered as it said the damage hadnt been caused 
by a single bad weather event. i.e. a storm.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy doesnt provide a definition of storm conditions. So applying our 
approach, we think a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow.
As the investigator explained, we ask three questions when considering storm damage 
claims to help decide whether an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. RSA 
applied the same approach in this case. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
On checking local weather reports in the week leading up to the date of the event, wind 
gusts peaked at 35 mph. There had been heavy rainfall during the same period. But while 
there was some bad weather, I dont think it was so extreme as to meet storm conditions. 
The surveyor instructed by RSA to inspect Mr and Mrs Ws property said;
the lead valley has been applied in one continuous strip (2.5m) which is too long, it 
should be around 1.5m overlapping strips. There is a visible fatigue crack along the 
valley due to thermal expansion.
He told Mr W this was due to poor workmanship when the roof was built approximately thirty 
years before. So RSA said it couldnt conclude that the damage was caused by a one off 
event such as a storm. Photos provided dont reveal the lead valley had lifted or ripped 
away, which might be typical of storm related damage. 
Mr W said the contractor who repaired the roof told him that the lead roof valley had been 
incorrectly fitted in one length instead of two overlapping lengths by the original builder 
approximately thirty years before. Over time the roof joists may have moved a fraction, 
enough for the lead to fracture under the stressful conditions of a severe storm or torrential 
rain.
Under the section Policy Exclusions RSA lists the wear and tear exclusion it quoted in its 
reply to Mr Ws complaint. However, it also lists an exclusion for Defective construction or 
design. This excludes Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or 
resulting from poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs W moved into the home approximately three years before 
the event. And so Mr W says they couldnt have known about the workmanship issue. But 
that doesnt mean that RSA should meet the claim. So I think the relevant exclusion that 
applies in this case is the exclusion for poor workmanship and defective design, based on 
everything Ive seen. However this doesnt change the outcome for Mr and Mrs W. And so I think RSAs decision 
to decline their claim for the roof damage was reasonable and in line with the policy. I 
understand how strongly Mr W feels about RSAs decision. But I think RSA treated Mr and 
Mrs W fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman