DRN-3818028
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limiteds lack of advice in 
relation to a whole of life policy held in trust.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the reasons 
Ive set out below. I appreciate Mrs S will be very disappointed with the outcome and while 
Ive summarised what I consider to be the key points of this complaint, Ive considered all of 
her explanations and arguments when reaching my decision:
Mrs S was advised to take out this policy by a predecessor firm of Quilter in 2005. 
The DISP rules which govern which complaints we can look into specify certain 
time limits. We cant consider a complaint about the sale of this policy because it was 
more than six years ago  and Mrs S ought to have known there was reason to 
complain in 2015 when the policy failed a review and the sum assured reduced 
significantly. 
Mrs S believes Quilter and their predecessor had a duty to her to keep her policy 
under review and to ensure it was invested in well-performing funds. Ive seen no 
evidence that this was the case. The policy documentation shows that Quilters 
predecessor was paid a lump sum of commission for setting up the policy, and that 
they were due to receive ongoing commission payments of £4.54 each month once 
the policy had been in place for three years. But this sort of payment structure is 
most likely to be trail commission  an arrangement that was common practice at the 
time and was simply an arrangement between a policy provider and a financial 
provider with no associated requirement to provide any services to the consumer. I 
think its highly unlikely Quilter had any ongoing duty to advise Mrs S.
I can see Quilters predecessor sent Mrs S a letter in July 2019 which was 
misleading. It said that Mrs Ss financial advisor had left in 2017 so her policy had not 
been reviewed since then. So, it said, ongoing advisor charges should not have been 
received in relation to the policy. This letter offered Mrs S a payment of £185.47 and 
a complimentary review of her investments. Mrs S accepted both offers but never 
received the complimentary review. 
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Quilter didnt have an ongoing obligation to 
review Mrs Ss policy. So I think the letter was incorrect and Quilter didnt need to pay 
Mrs S anything. But, having sent the letter, Quilter should have followed through with 
the complimentary review, or at least communicated that it wouldnt happen. Quilter 
have offered Mrs S £300 to compensate her for the misleading information in the 
letter and for not arranging a review. Im satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable  
its a recognition of the upset and inconvenience they caused rather than any attempt 
to compensate Mrs S for financial losses.
I appreciate Mrs S says her policy is now worthless  but as Ive explained above I 
cant say this is because Quilter should have provided advice. 
Quilter havent yet paid Mrs S the £300 theyve offered so Im now directing them to 
do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited need to pay £300 to Mrs S.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and others 
as the trustees of the SCS Settlement Trust to accept or reject my decision before 28 
December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman