DRN-1716441
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the level of bonuses Phoenix Life Limited applied to her pension 
fund.
What happened
Mrs S started a Section 226 with-profits Retirement Annuity Contract with Phoenix Life in 
1987 and paid into the pension scheme until 1995.
As the fund was invested within the with-profits fund, yearly bonuses were applied to it and 
added to the basic pension to increase the value of the fund.
In 2019 Mrs S complained to Phoenix Life that shed been unhappy with the level of bonuses 
applied to her pension fund in recent years. She said shed received much higher bonuses 
when she first took out the policy. However, the bonuses had dropped significantly in value 
from 1998 onwards. Mrs S said she would have had higher returns if shed invested the 
money through a building society.
In its response Phoenix Life said the policy performance and bonuses werent guaranteed. 
It said the fund performed well in the 1980s but didnt show as consistently high returns in 
the 1990s and 2000s. So, as a result, the bonuses added in later years were lower in value. 
Phoenix Life also said Mrs S took out the policy in response to an advert and so it had not 
provided any advice on whether the policy was suitable. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with Phoenix Lifes response and so brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt Mrs S wasnt advised by Phoenix Life whether the policy was suitable 
and so it wasnt mis-sold by them. He also felt the returns on the investment werent 
guaranteed and agreed that returns on investments werent consistently as high in the 
1990s and 2000s as they had been in the 1980s. But our investigator said this was the 
case across the whole of the financial industry and not just Phoenix Life. So, it shouldnt be 
held responsible for poor returns and lower bonuses in recent years.    
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view and so the case has been passed onto me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered if this was something our service could help with, as the issues Mrs S has 
raised started more than six years ago. But Phoenix Life have given us consent to look into 
this complaint. So, Ive then considered the merits of Mrs Ss complaint.
 
Im sorry to hear Mrs S hasnt received the returns on her pension fund shed hoped for. 
I appreciate that it must have had an impact on her retirement plans. 
The issue for me to determine here is if Phoenix Life acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
applying bonuses to Mrs Ss pension fund. Ive also considered if Phoenix Life should have 
advised Mrs S to invest her money in a different way.
Phoenix Life have provided us with Mrs Ss original application for her pension policy. 
This shows Mrs S took out the policy in response to a marketing advert for the pension fund 
by filling in an application form and sending it to Phoenix Life. Therefore, I think this was a 
non-advised sale, as I havent seen any evidence Mrs S was advised by anyone at 
Phoenix Life that the policy was suitable for her needs. 
I understand Mrs S feels she would be better off if shed invested with a building society. 
But I dont think it would be fair for me to say Phoenix Life should have advised Mrs S about 
other ways in which she could invest her money. I say this because I dont think it was 
Phoenix Lifes role to give Mrs S financial advice when she decided to invest in the pension 
fund. 
Mrs Ss policy was a with-profits policy, so the plan shared in any profits arising from 
Phoenix Lifes with-profits fund. Each year bonuses were applied to Mrs Ss basic pension 
fund increasing its value. I can appreciate why Mrs S is concerned that there had been such 
a large decrease in the value of bonuses she received. Mrs Ss bonuses in the late 1980s 
and early 1990s were in the hundreds of pounds, whereas the bonuses she received in the 
2000s were considerably lower  the majority of which were under £5.
With-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of transparency. I understand Mrs Ss 
suspicions about the level of bonuses applied and I accept it is very difficult for policyholders 
to satisfy themselves that they are receiving what they are entitled to under the terms of their 
plan. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the business has got something wrong. 
Phoenix Life is accountable to the industry regulator (now the Financial Conduct Authority  
FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund (in accordance with its 
Principles and Practices of Financial Management document). And the regulator monitors 
the management of it. Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits actuary and the FCA 
provides rules and guidance on their duties. Phoenix life also has an independent With-
Profits Committee whose remit is to protect the interests of the with-profits policyholders and 
ensure that they are treated fairly. 
I think the bonus figures provided by Mrs S can be explained through the workings of the 
policy and fund, rather than being a clear indication that something is wrong. Ultimately, its 
the FCA that monitors its management and I am not aware that it has any concerns about it. 
Where a commercial decision has been made by a business, relating to all eligible 
policyholders, this goes much wider than the individual complaint and concerns the way the 
business operates. Matters of this nature may be reported to the FCA.
In summary, I dont think Phoenix Life were responsible for advising Mrs S to take out this 
product, so I cant say that Mrs S was mis sold the pension. I also think that Phoenix Life 
were entitled to decide the level of bonus applied to Mrs Ss pension fund each year. 
I appreciated this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but for the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman