DRN-3337848
The complaint
Company A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its business bank 
account.
What happened
At the beginning of April 2019 HSBC wrote to Company A and asked it to complete an online 
customer information review. HSBC explained that as part of its commitment to fight fraud 
and crime, and to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, it needed to have accurate 
information about its customers. It advised that without the completed review, it may be 
unable to continue its banking relationship with Company A.
Company As account was eventually closed on 2 March 2020 and it was sent a cheque for
the account balance. The following events occurred in the meantime:
In May and June 2019 HSBC sent a further three chase letters to Company A. 
These explained it needed the review to be completed by 26 July 2019.
In early July 2019, Company As secretary visited a HSBC branch. They spent time 
with an advisor completing the form which was submitted on Company As behalf. 
Company A told us that in advance of this branch visit it had tried unsuccessfully to 
access the HSBC website to complete the form, but it couldnt do so.
On 26 July 2019, HSBC wrote to Company A advising it was going to close the 
account on 4 October 2019 as it hadnt received the information it needed  the 
submitted review form contained some inaccuracies.
In September 2019, Company A then called HSBC to try and resolve things. 
HSBC left a note with its branch team identifying the problems and asking the branch 
to assist Company A in amending the review.
In September 2019 Company A says it attended the branch but was told more 
information was required which it didnt have available at that time. Company A noted 
it hadnt been warned by HSBC this information would be needed. Company A said it 
was later told HSBC branch staff are not trained to deal with the online customer 
reviews.
Company A then raised a complaint with HSBC about the process. It said that it had 
since tried to complete the review online itself but had difficulties doing so because 
the one-time password wasnt arriving quickly enough. Company A asked for a 30-
day extension to allow it time to gather the information it needed and attend branch to 
resolve things.
On 2 October 2019 HSBC wrote to Company A and identified the inaccuracies in the 
online review as well as what further information was required.
On 11 October 2019 Company A provided further information directly to the relevant 
HSBC team via email.
On 22 October 2019 HSBC granted Company A an extension, saying it needed to 
provide the additional information by 14 November 2019 to avoid an account closure 
on 21 November 2019.
On 25 October 2019 Company A chased for a response to its email of 11 October 
2019 and got a response on 28 October 2019 asking for more information by 
1 November 2019. Company A requested more time and provided the review 
information on 20 November 2019. This was resent to HSBC on 27 November 2019. 
Company A says neither email was acknowledged.
On 29 November 2019 HSBC restarted the account closure process as it hadnt 
received the information it needed. HSBC also restricted the account.
Company A then raised a further complaint. Company A told us that by 27 November 
2019 it understood it had sent all the information, but it was later told that one of the 
attachments it had sent wouldnt open.
On 11 December 2019 HSBC responded to the complaint and agreed to an 
extension as it believed Company A was willing to provide the information it needed. 
It gave Company A until 17 January 2020 to fully complete the review.
On 8 January 2020 Company A resent the attachment that wouldnt open.
On 17 January 2020 HSBC recommenced closure action.
In late January Company A complained about this as it said it had sent HSBC the 
information it needed on 8 January 2020. A final response letter was sent on 
24 January 2020 in which HSBC stood by its decision to close the account saying 
that Company A hadnt provided the information until 17 January 2020 which hadnt 
given it sufficient time to process this. It confirmed to Company A that it could open a 
new account with HSBC if it wanted to.
Company A remained unhappy so in July 2020 it brought its concerns to our Service. 
It requested HSBC reopen the account. It confirmed it had not opened a new business bank 
account in the meantime and this had been inconvenient as the secretary had to deal with 
matters through their personal account.
Our Investigator sent HSBC evidence that Company A had provided the requested 
information before the 17 January 2020 deadline  on 8 January 2020. In response, HSBC 
said it would be willing to offer company A £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
but HSBC stressed this information was still received well into the second extension and it 
doesnt normally allow customers two extensions.
Our Investigator put this offer to Company A, but it didnt think this was enough. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued provisional findings so that both parties had the opportunity to comment before a 
final decision was issued. In brief I said that there had been an error because Company A 
had provided the information before the last deadline given. And I felt that the £100 
settlement offer put forward by HSBC was fair compensation for the inconvenience caused. Company A said it wanted the account re-opened. In particular it said:
It has been unable to meet its obligations since March 2020 due to the lack of 
account. This has included a loss of funding due to:
oBeing unable to assess and collect charges for two years which could 
complicate the businesses operations as the balances are not up to date. 
oThe company secretary having to privately contribute to avoid breach of the 
companys obligations. The company secretary told us they now have a 
significant credit balance, and these were funds they could have used 
elsewhere. The secretary told us there was no alternative to the above 
arrangement.
It should not be forced to go through the process of opening a new account under 
any circumstances given the account was closed in error. In particular it said:
oIn 2018, before this complaint arose, it had previously had difficulties with 
completing forms HSBC required and it felt further mistakes were made then. 
It had then spent 30+ hours with them trying to deal with the issue at the heart 
of this complaint. So, it had no reason to believe opening an account would 
be straightforward.
oFour of its directors are frequently abroad and often offline, which makes 
opening an account problematic.
oThe account was closed at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic which 
means branches were not open for several months and it was not possible to 
call banks without experiencing lengthy delays. 
It felt the two years that had elapsed since the account was closed were due to 
Covid-19. It said there were four months of trying to resolve the issue with the bank; 
and the rest was awaiting a decision from our Service.
It said another bank had advised it would take four to six weeks to set up a new 
account following an initial 45 minute call. 
HSBC said it would be willing to offer £200 compensation to account for the inconvenience 
caused.
Im now in a position to make a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC closed Company As account. The evidence indicates that Company A provided the 
information HSBC had requested by the last deadline of 17 January 2020. But this email 
wasnt processed correctly by HSBC, and so the account was still closed.
I think there was an error here. I appreciate HSBC has highlighted that there was a delay in 
the provision of this information by Company A. But Company A has also made several 
points about why it doesnt feel it is responsible for these delays. I dont think I need to reach 
a finding on who was responsible for the delays. Ultimately, HSBC chose to grant 
Company A an extension until 17 January 2020 and Company A then met the deadline 
given. So, I dont think the account should then have been closed.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this error.
Our Services role is to impartially review complaints against businesses. If we think errors 
have been made, in so far as is practical, we try to put the consumer back into the position 
they would have been in had a mistake not been made. But in assessing a fair outcome, wed also consider the broader circumstances of the complaint. It is not our role to punish 
businesses for mistakes. 
Im not persuaded Company A has experienced any loss as a result of this closure. I say this 
noting Company A has told us that it was able to continue managing its finances via the 
secretarys personal bank account. I note Company As comments about the fact the finance 
arrangements could impact operations. But Ive seen no evidence it has impacted 
operations. And I cannot award for any potential loss that Company A may experience in the 
future.
I also appreciate the secretary has said they have lost out on the use of their money, as well 
as finding the entire process incredibly frustrating. But it is Company A that is the eligible 
complainant here, not the secretary. So, whilst I dont doubt this has been difficult for them, I 
cannot make an award for the loss, distress or upset they personally experienced. 
Company A has also told us that managing its accounts in this way was more complicated 
and took longer  and this inconvenience is something I can consider awarding for. 
However, when assessing the extent of this impact, I think its of relevance that Company A 
could have tried to set up a new business bank account with either HSBC or another bank at 
any point following the closure; and Company A chose not to do this. 
Had it done so, the inconvenience caused here would have been minimised, as these 
arrangements would only have lasted until the new account was set up.
Even if Company A had lost faith in HSBC as its suggested might have been the case, there 
are other banks available. Whilst I appreciate Company As comments about unforeseen 
delays to the resolution of their complaint, I would note it was warned of the delays to the 
allocation of complaints when it first approached our service and was updated about the 
delays whilst awaiting an investigator to be allocated. I do also think the difficulties 
Company A had obtaining the documentation our service required contributed to these 
delays  something it would also have been aware of. This means I think Company A had 
sufficient information to recognise there would be delays and I think its fair to say it could 
have taken action to mitigate the extent of inconvenience it experienced by opening a new 
account much sooner than it did. Ultimately it was offered a solution to the lack of account by 
HSBC at the beginning of 2020 when it was told it could apply for a new account.  
That being said, I appreciate Company A may not have been in a position to easily open a 
new account until June 2020 when lockdown restrictions eased  phone lines were busy and 
some branches limited contact. So, I do think HSBC can be held responsible for the fact 
there were around four months (accounting for the time taken to open a new account) when 
Company A was without an account due to HSBCs error.
I cannot comment on the issues Company A says it had with HSBC in 2018 as these are not 
part of this complaint. I also wouldnt award for the time Company A spent trying to provide 
HSBC with the information it needed in 2019/2020, as HSBC was reasonably able to request 
this.
Im aware Company A also wants its business account with HSBC reopened. But this 
account has now been closed for nearly two years, which makes the practicalities of 
reopening this more difficult. Im satisfied HSBC has offered a solution to Company As lack 
of account when it explained it could reapply back in 2020. And I also note that this remains 
an option available to Company A. Given this, I dont think it would be proportionate in these 
circumstances to direct HSBC to reopen an account that has been closed for this long. 
Ultimately it has offered a solution that would resolve Company As difficulties, and whilst I 
appreciate it isnt the solution Company A would ideally like, I dont think its unfair. I do take on board Company As comments about how its particular circumstances (the fact 
its directors frequently go abroad) make the process of opening a new account more difficult 
logistically. Whilst I dont think HSBC can be held responsible for the difficulties Company A 
faced in setting up a new account, I do recognise this would make the process of having to 
apply for a new account, which is the consequence of HSBCs error, a greater 
inconvenience to it.
And so, taking into account everything both parties have told us, I think HSBC should pay a 
total of £200 compensation to fully account for the particular inconvenience caused to 
Company A. 
I think its also fair to say that there has been a breakdown in the relationship between 
Company A and HSBC during this process. Such that Company A may wish to consider 
whether it would be better serviced by utilising another bank to provide its account services 
in the future.
For all of these reasons, I think the £200 HSBC has now offered in resolution to this 
complaint is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Company A £200 for the inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman