DRN-3098650
The complaint
Mr G complains that the motorhome he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
PCF Bank Limited (PCF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of the repairs he 
had carried out to be refunded.
What happened
Mr G entered a conditional sale agreement in October 2019 to acquire a used motorhome. 
At the time of the acquisition, the motorhome was around five years old and had been driven 
just over 50,000 miles. The motorhome had a cash price of £32,000; Mr G paid a deposit of 
£2,000 and financed the remaining £30,000 on a conditional sale agreement with PCF. Mr G 
told us:
hes had a number of issues and faults with the motorhome, the principal one being 
water ingress in the vehicles garage resulting in mould and damp, but hes notified 
PCF of a further 41 faults and issues;
PCF arranged for an independent inspection, and it was confirmed that the issues 
with the vehicle had been present when Mr G acquired it;
PCF initially tried to have the vehicle returned to the dealership to be repaired, but 
even taking into account the pandemic, the timescales have been lengthy, and the 
overall process has been very drawn out;
despite the problems hes experienced getting the matter resolved, hes continued to 
pay his monthly repayments even though the vehicle isnt fit for purpose and hes had 
very limited use of it;
hes had to spend some of his own money rectifying other problems with the vehicle 
and he shouldnt have had to do this;
the Motorhome was finally collected by PCF in May 2021 so that the dealership could  
assess it, but he wont be taking the vehicle back  its condition has deteriorated 
significantly in the 18 months since he acquired it because the water ingress issues 
werent dealt with when he first raised them;
PCF acknowledged that there were ongoing issues with the motorhome, and it accepted that 
some work hadnt been undertaken competently with the result that damp and rot had set in. 
It said it was in the process of acquiring additional evidence from an independent inspection, 
and it confirmed that if the dealership was unwilling to assist, PCF would cover the cost of 
repairs. It went on to confirm that it would be open to engaging a third party to complete the 
repairs and it would then expect a financial contribution from the dealership towards the cost 
of these repairs. And it asked Mr G to obtain three quotes, one of which it would agree to, 
covering the cost of the repairs.
Mr G told PCF that the dealership hadnt made him aware of his right to reject the 
motorhome even though hed made it aware of the numerous faults  some of them on the 
day of purchase, and others within the first 30 days.
He explained how hed come to discover the serious damp and mould problem when hed 
had to remove the boot liner, and the response hed been given by the dealership which, he 
says, suggests that the spray job was a cover-up  an attempt to hide the mould and damp 
as confirmed in the findings of the independent inspection report. Mr G highlighted other 
examples of shoddy work hed uncovered, for example, plastic cable ties used as a fix to 
attach hoses to the sink taps; the installation of an inappropriate transformer that resulted in 
the new battery Mr G had installed being rendered useless through overcharging.
Mr G said that PCFs offer to cover the cost of repairs was made before the independent 
report highlighted the significant extent of the damp and the fact that the living area was 
further contaminated with damp and mould. And he said hes spent a not inconsiderable sum 
of money resolving other issues without reimbursement.
Mr G said that as the repairs hadnt been undertaken within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to him, he should be permitted to reject the motorhome. It was 18 
months since he acquired the vehicle and none of the repairs had been undertaken.
PCF said it planned to have the motorhome uplifted to a third party so that it can be 
assessed. It confirmed that in the event it was able to secure an acceptable offer to settle the 
agreement, it would be willing to end the agreement and refund Mr G. Alternatively, the 
motorhome could be repaired and other settlement routes could be explored.
PCF told us that it had always accepted responsibility for the fact that the motorhome 
supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality, but it thought the appropriate remedy was repair and 
not rejection. It acknowledged that Mr G no longer wanted the motorhome. It said hed paid 
£9,496.79 so far and it would be willing to release him from the financial agreement and offer 
him a refund of £5,213.98. It confirmed that it would update Mr Gs credit file to show the 
agreement as complete with no adverse markings.
Mr G didnt accept PCFs offer and he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think PCF had acted fairly and 
she thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said that based on the evidence shed 
seen, the motorhome was faulty at the point of supply and wasnt of satisfactory quality. And 
because she considered that both parties accepted this to be the case, she didnt need to 
reach a finding on the other faults that Mr G had identified.
The investigator explained that because the dealership had already had the opportunity to 
repair some of the minor faults that were first identified, she felt that in view of the time that 
had now elapsed, any further attempts to repair the faults would simply add to the significant 
delays and inconvenience Mr G had already experienced. Because of this, she said the 
appropriate remedy in this case was to allow Mr G to reject the motorhome.
She said in addition to being allowed to reject the motorhome, Mr G should be refunded 
some of the payments hed made. This was because although the motorhome wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, Mr G had enjoyed some use of it. And she asked PCF to pay Mr G £100 
compensation in recognition of the worry and anxiety it had caused when it sent him arrears 
and default notices when it shouldnt have done so.
Finally, she also considered the other costs Mr G had incurred in carrying out repairs and 
maintenance on the motorhome; more than 50 things at a cost of £2,347.21. And she asked 
PCF to reimburse him these costs. This was because most of these repairs and installations 
were to improve the motorhome, something that he no longer had the benefit of. But she 
didnt think Mr G could claim for the labour costs associated with these repairs because 
shed seen no evidence that hed paid for this himself directly.
Although Mr G accepted our investigators opinion PCF did not, so the complaint comes to 
me to decide. PCF says Mr G was partially responsible for the time its taken to progress things. And it says it cant be held responsible for the repairs that Mr G undertook himself 
because it wasnt afforded the opportunity to verify those issues. In summary it accepted all 
aspects of our investigators recommended redress but not that it should pay Mr G 
£2,347.21 in respect of the repairs hed carried out himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr G is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PCF is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  PCF in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the 
motorhomes age, price, description and mileage.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the motorhome was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after 
the first six months, then its for Mr G to prove the fault was present when he first acquired it. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what shes 
already said, and I think shes set out the position very clearly in her view.
Although both parties accept that the motorhome wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied, Ive considered this for myself. And having considered this very carefully I dont 
think it was. I say this because the independent report is clear that the damp, mould and wet 
rot wouldve been present when the motorhome was first supplied to Mr G. The report states 
that the rear storage compartment is heavily contaminated with moisture / water ingress. 
Readings were taken and were in excess of 24%. The wood panels were all distorted and 
soft and seriously affected with water ingressthe water ingress issue would have been 
developing at the point of sale. The report also identified a catalogue of additional issues 
including, but not limited to, dining table legs; heater system failure, insecure roof trim; 
insecure taps; and unstable storage drawers.
So, theres no dispute that Mr G has experienced numerous problems with the motorhome; 
the first of which he says he reported on the very day he collected it from the dealership. And 
Ive seen notes; receipts and very detailed testimony from Mr G detailing the issues he 
experienced with the motorhome and the repairs and maintenance he had to arrange and 
the resultant costs of that work.
PCF says the repairs and modification made by Mr G arent costs that it should refund. It 
says these arent consequential losses, the modifications and repairs were carried out without its permission or notification, and it doesnt understand why Mr G would undertake 
this work if he knew the motorhome was of unsatisfactory quality. In short, he shouldve 
mitigated his losses and not undertaken the repairs and modifications knowing that the 
motorhome was of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive considered this point very carefully, but I have to tell PCF that I dont agree. In view of 
the faults and problems experienced with this motorhome from the outset and the fact that 
some of the initial repairs failed to remedy the issues, Mr G wouldve been within his rights to 
reject the motorhome. Had this happened at the outset, it would not have been appropriate 
for Mr G to spend any money on repairing or modifying the motorhome.
But the motorhome wasnt rejected. Mr G says he was unaware of his rights in this regard 
and, that because the satisfactory quality of the motorhome hadnt yet been confirmed  the 
independent inspection took place two months after supply  he spent just over £2,000 
repairing and improving the vehicle in the belief that hed benefit from these modifications 
and use the motorhome for a considerable period of time. I find his testimony plausible and 
persuasive and conclude that he shouldnt incur these additional costs as a result of being 
supplied a motorhome of unsatisfactory quality.
Im satisfied that the redress detailed by our investigator is both fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im going to direct PCF to compensate Mr G 
accordingly.
Putting things right
In addition to the redress agreed by PCF Bank Limited, Im directing it to compensate Mr G 
for the costs incurred by him in repairing and modifying the motorhome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it has not already done so, I direct 
PCF Bank Limited to:
End the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay and provide 
confirmation of this to Mr G.
Remove all adverse information from Mr Gs credit file in relation to the credit 
agreement.
Refund Mr G his deposit of £2,000.
Refund Mr G all payments made under the credit agreement from 20 May 2021 to 
the date the agreement is ended. This is when the motorhome was collected from 
him, so hes had no use of it from this date.
Refund Mr G 50% of the payments made under the credit agreement between 
October 2019 and May 2021. This reflects the loss of use and impaired use because 
of the motorhomes inherent quality issues.
pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
refund Mr G £2,347.21 in respect of his additional costs incurred in the repair and 
modification of the motorhome.
pay Mr G £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused as above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman