DRN-3486416
The complaint
W is a partnership, it complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to decline its 
application to sell part of a commercial property that Barclays held a security on. Mr K is 
representing the partnership.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In 2017, Barclays provided a commercial mortgage on a property W owns. 
In 2019, W applied for planning permission to extend the property at the rear. This 
work meant W would be creating a new unit that it intended to sell. 
W said it knew it needed Barclays permission to do this but didnt think it would be a 
problem as permission had been provided in the past. 
However, Barclays refused to give the permission and because of this W says it 
incurred a lot of unnecessary costs when completing the conversion and sale. W said 
it had no choice but to redeem the mortgage before going ahead with the sale of the 
newly completed unit.
Barclays acknowledged that there were delays and offered £200 compensation. But 
said due to the current climate the banks appetite for risk has changed and this 
influenced the decision. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. W didnt agree and so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that W feel Barclays were not honest about its process when it 
requested to sell part of the property that had a security on it. W says they were not informed 
that their affordability was being re-assessed or a new application would have to be 
submitted.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the 2017 mortgage offer. Mr K doesnt dispute that 
this wording means Barclays would need to give permission before the new unit could be 
sold especially as part of that unit was made up of the original unit. But Mr K presumed it 
wouldnt be an issue as they had done this previously. But Im satisfied that was an 
assumption and Barclays hadnt misled Mr K by doing this in the past, not providing a 
guarantee or setting a precedent that it would do so going forward. And so, I think Barclays 
actions were reasonable and in line with its mortgage terms and conditions. 
Furthermore, when the application was submitted, Barclays credit processing team said a 
valuation would be required at Ws expense  Im satisfied this is in the terms of the 
mortgage. So, I wont be asking Barclays to cover the cost of this.
I can see Barclays relationship manager (RM) also requested that W provide a copy of their 
accounts for the last two years. Mr K is unhappy that when he asked if these were required 
for the sale of the unit the RM responded that it was for compliance. Ive looked at the email 
sent and I agree it mentions compliance but she also said she is ready to go back to the 
underwriters as soon as she has the valuation but she says she needs to tick the box to say 
she has up to date accounts. So, although it mayve not been clearly stated by the RM why 
the accounts were required, I think it implies that this will be considered by the underwriters. 
Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt made an error here, although it couldve been clearer in its 
communication.  
I can see due to the RM trying to push the application through as quickly as possible for W, 
she asked the valuer what the new value would be. When she realised it would not be within 
the current loan to value (LTV) guidelines she informed W that it would need an undertaking 
from their solicitor that approx. £12,000 would on completion be repaid on the loan account. 
Im satisfied the RM was trying to prevent any hold up by letting W know of the situation as 
she saw it with the current LTV guidelines.
However, the following day the underwriters said the security would only be released once 
the loan is reduced by £197,500 based on affordability it had seen on the accounts as 
opposed to the £12,000 that the RM had indicated. The RM let W know immediately. W says 
it has incurred a cost of around £350 for the solicitor to arrange the undertaking. I dont think 
it was unreasonable for W to have acted on instructing their solicitor to draft the undertaking. 
But Ive also considered that they were informed the following day of the underwriting 
decision, so I think its reasonable that this undertaking couldve been cancelled before the 
£350 cost was incurred. 
I am not going to direct Barclays to pay the other losses W are claiming for either - legal 
fees, early repayment fee, and new title plans. I havent seen evidence that Barclays made 
an error and W were aware that theyd have to apply for permission to split the title and sell 
the property. There wouldve been legal fees required in getting this sorted but W chose to 
do this before seeking the permission and had already arranged a sale, I cant hold Barclays 
accountable for that and I havent seen anything to show that Barclays had indicated that 
permission would be granted prior to the application being submitted. Unfortunately, 
Barclays appetite to risk at the time was low due to the current climate. I see that W 
considered its options after the declination and chose to redeem the mortgage and continue 
with the sale of the unit, I think the likelihood is that these costs wouldve still been payable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman