DRN-3090232
The complaint
Mr G complains about errors made by Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) in 
connection with a number of insurance policies he holds. 
All references to D&G include the agents it has appointed to administer insurance policies on 
its behalf.   
What happened
Mr G held several insurance policies, provided by D&G and complained to it about repeated 
errors in his policy documentation. Mr G said these errors included:
incorrect policy numbers, initials and addresses;
inaccurate descriptions of the location of insured items;
being sent renewal letters which didnt relate to products owned by him.
D&G responded to Mr Gs complaint in a letter dated 18 September 2020. The letter referred 
to plan number F990076607 and said D&G wouldnt be upholding Mr Gs complaint as it had 
found that all the information on its systems was correct. 
As Mr G remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. He said 
D&G had referred to the wrong plan number in its letter to him and that his complaint related 
to policies including: 
CG60032207 (covering a washer dryer);
BNJ0070730 (covering a fridge freezer);
CC50012180 (covering a cooker);
CPK0000253 (covering a washing machine). 
D&G initially disputed our jurisdiction to consider Mr Gs complaint for a number of reasons. 
Our investigator ultimately concluded that Mr Gs complaint was one which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had the power to consider. He recommended that D&G should pay Mr 
G £250 compensation for the errors it had made. 
D&G responded to say it agreed that parts of Mr Gs complaint fell within our jurisdiction but 
said it had paid Mr G a total of £130 compensation in respect of certain aspects of his 
complaints already. D&G said Mr G was paid £30 in respect of policy number CG60032207, 
and that he was sent two payments of £50 each in relation to policy number F990076607. 
As our investigator couldnt reach a resolution that was satisfactory to both parties, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide as the final stage in our process. 
Ive been in correspondence with both Mr G and D&G about this complaint. 
D&G has confirmed it is prepared to pay Mr G an additional £120 compensation (a total of 
£250 less the payments of £130 which D&G said it had already made).  However, Mr G says 
he never cashed the cheque for £30 that was sent to him in relation to policy number 
CG60032207 and disputes that he was ever sent £100 for his complaint about plan number 
F990076607.
I asked D&G for evidence explaining what the £100 compensation was paid to Mr G for. 
D&G has since provided the following;
a note from a call dated 7/10/20 referring to a gesture of goodwill payment of £50 for 
a data breach;
a letter offering £50 compensation for a data breach in relation to plan number 
F990076607.
In order to bring matters to a conclusion, I think its now appropriate for me to make a final 
decision about Mr Gs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates (the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules) set out what complaints we can and cant 
consider. 
For us to be able to consider a complaint under our Compulsory Jurisdiction, the DISP rules 
say  amongst other things  that the complaint should relate to a regulated activity carried 
out by an authorised firm. 
For the avoidance of doubt, based on the evidence provided by Mr G, Im satisfied that the 
policies which he is complaining about (CG60032207, BNJ0070730, CC50012180 and 
CPK0000253) are contracts of insurance. This means Mr G is complaining about a regulated 
activity (D&Gs acts or omissions in effecting a contract of insurance) at a time when D&G 
was an authorised firm under our Compulsory Jurisdiction. 
Ive already explained to D&G that I think compensation totalling £250 is warranted for what I 
think are its failings in the relation to the administration of policies CG60032207, 
BNJ0070730 and CPK0000253. These failings are in respect of incorrect names set out on 
certain policies, incorrect product locations set out on certain policies and documentation 
being sent to Mr G for a product which he does not own. Mr G has told us these errors were 
made repeatedly. 
I have no power to make punitive awards of compensation, but Im satisfied, based on the 
evidence that Ive seen, that these errors caused Mr G a considerable amount of 
inconvenience and frustration. I think its clear Mr G spent quite some time and went to some 
lengths trying to ensure D&G had the details of each of his policies recorded correctly, but 
D&G went on to make the same mistakes on more than one occasion. Im satisfied that an 
award of compensation within the category that this service would consider moderate would 
be appropriate for the impact of D&Gs errors on Mr G. 
D&G now accepts that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay compensation to Mr G for these errors. The issue which remains in dispute is whether D&G should pay Mr G a total of 
£250 or whether it would be fair and reasonable for D&G to deduct the money it says it has 
already paid Mr G from the compensation award. 
If a consumer has already been paid some compensation for the issues being complained 
about then Id generally think it would be fair and reasonable for a business the deduct the 
previous sums paid when making an increased award of compensation. 
This is because the previous sums paid would form part of the overall circumstances of the 
complaint and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for a consumer to be compensated twice for 
the same issue. 
However, based on the individual circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable for D&G to deduct the £100 compensation which it says was paid to him 
for policy number F990076607 from the award of £250 which Im making in this case.   
This is because Im not satisfied, based on the evidence D&G has provided, what the two 
payments of £50 each were made in respect of. Mr G has  in my opinion, understandably - 
questioned why a letter would be sent to him in respect of a complaint on 18 September 
2020 in which said D&G it was not upholding his complaint, would then be followed up with 2 
payments of compensation on 21 September 2020 and 9 October 2020 without any further 
explanation to him. Ive considered the call note which D&G has provided as evidence in 
respect of one of these £50 payments, but this note contains no plan or policy reference 
number. Ive also considered the letter which D&G says was sent to Mr G about the previous 
compensation payment, but this again refers to only one payment of £50 and the letter isnt 
contemporaneously dated. 
Even if I were to accept that a previous payment of £100 compensation was made in respect 
of plan number F990076607, this plan isnt the subject of Mr Gs complaint to this service. 
Instead, Mr G complained to us about the insurance policy numbers which Ive already 
outlined above. 
So, for these reasons, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for D&G to deduct £100 
from the award of £250 compensation now being made to Mr G. 
Mr G says the £30 cheque which D&G sent to him in relation to policy number CG60032207 
was never cashed. I see no reason why D&G wouldnt be able to confirm this by checking its 
records. If the cheque for £30 hasnt been cashed, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for D&G 
to deduct this from the award of compensation now being made to Mr G either. 
I understand D&G didnt include referral rights to this service in the letter it sent to Mr G 
about plan number F990076607. I havent been provided with the documentation necessary 
for make a finding about whether a complaint about this plan falls within our powers to 
consider. However, I dont think this would make any difference to the outcome of Mr Gs 
complaint. This is because I have no power to punish a business for failing to comply with 
regulatory requirements, or to force a business to change its internal procedures. As Mr G is 
already aware, this would be a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Putting things right
Domestic & General Insurance Plc needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as 
a result of its errors when administering his insurance policies. Domestic & General Insurance Plc shouldnt make any deduction from the above award for 
the two £50 compensation payments which were previously made to Mr G; 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc should establish whether the cheque for £30 previously 
sent to Mr G has been cashed. If the cheque hasnt been cashed, then Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc shouldnt make any deduction for this from the above award. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay Mr G 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint against Domestic & General Insurance Plc and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman