DRN-3123525
The complaint
Mr G complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) asked 
him to pay their success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim he said he 
hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G said as he didnt want to miss out on a possible PPI claim hed 
completed an on-line enquiry with FTR for a free PPI check. He said he also went direct to 
his lenders. And from his direct contact with one of his lenders Ill call B, he said they told 
him his PPI claim was successful and offered compensation for the mis-sold policy. But FTR 
asked him to pay their fee for this successful claim. He complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in August 2019 and theyd acted in 
good faith in submitting this to Mr Gs lender and pursuing Mr Gs PPI claim based on the 
information provided to them in the initial application. FTR said theyd updated Mr G when 
PPI had been found, and theyd provided him with their claims service. FTR said Mr G had 
completed and returned the PPI questionnaire theyd asked him to complete to strengthen 
his claim that the PPI had been mis-sold. Hed also signed a further LoA in October 2019. 
FTR said B told them when Mr Gs claim was successful, and as he hadnt cancelled his 
agreement with them, they said their fee was justified.
Mr G wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complain to us.
Our investigator said Mr G had authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And as his claim was 
successful their fee was justified.
Mr G didnt agree, he said the signature on the LoA wasnt his, and hed used another claims 
management company (CMC) in 2018. He said hed also made his own claim through a free 
website, so didnt agree that his claim was successful because of FTR. He has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G doesnt dispute that he signed the LoA in August 2019 but doesnt agree that hed 
authorised FTR to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim on his behalf. FTR feel strongly that theyd 
been authorised as Mr G had agreed to their terms and conditions. And that it was their 
submission of the LoA that meant Mr Gs PPI claim was successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Mr G said the signature on FTRs LoA isnt his. But its not our role to validate a 
signature, we arent handwriting experts and in the case of forgery it would be for a criminal 
court to consider. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than not Mr G had 
or hadnt authorised FTR to act on his behalf. If I consider he has, whether FTR knew he no 
longer wanted them to work for him. And to see whether FTR has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many CMCs amended their terms 
and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders 
could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any further information such as that 
provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was 
mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI 
and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is 
generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. But for others they could ask for a wet 
signature and for the PPI questionnaire to be completed. Any claim received after the 29 August 
2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional 
circumstances for doing so.
So Ive looked at what has happened. FTR has shown an online application was made about 
mis-sold PPI for Mr G on 14 August 2019, shortly before the deadline for making such 
claims. Mr G doesnt dispute that he used FTRs online application website. So, Ive looked 
at FTRs web journey process for an online application. A screen shows a statement that 
says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement. And I think this 
shows the free PPI period ends and FTRs claims service would begin upon PPI being 
found, with a fee being payable on success of any claim for mis-sold PPI.
The next screens would have asked for information from the applicant about personal details 
and lenders. FTR has shown an audit trail with the information supplied. This shows the 
personal details included current and previous address, date of birth and contact details 
including mobile phone number that correlate with the personal details Mr G has given this 
service. And which lender, in this case B, who he wanted to check whether hed PPI with 
was also supplied.
On completing the application, FTR said Mr G would have needed to agree to their terms 
and conditions. And once he had a LoA populated with the supplied information would be 
generated. FTR has told us the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. 
And their audit data shows a signature was added at the time of the application. Mr G isnt 
disputing, he completed the online application and submitted it to FTR. I know Mr G has said 
the terms and conditions werent clear but in submitting his application he said hed agreed 
to them. FTRs terms and conditions explained, as they had on the website that: Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
FTRs records show that they sent in October 2019 several notifications to Mr G about his 
PPI claim. Mr G has said he no longer used the email address supplied in the online 
application, and I can see these are showing as delivered only. But there were also 
notifications sent to Mr Gs mobile phone number, the same one he has given to us that also 
told him that PPI had been found.
The notifications gave an FTR customer reference number and said You Have Paid PPI 
with a link to a PPI questionnaire. And as PPI had been found, from this point FTR would 
have been providing their claims service. 
PPI being found didnt automatically mean Mr Gs claim was successful as it needed to be 
considered by B whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. And B asked FTR for a LoA 
that had Mr Gs wet signature and further information to support his claim that the PPI had 
been mis-sold.. FTR has shown that in October 2019 they asked Mr G to complete these 
actions. The LoA was signed with a wet signature and dated 26 October 2019, and the PPI 
questionnaire was completed, with both returned to FTR. FTR submitted these with a formal 
letter of complaint to B.
In November 2019 another email was sent to the email FTR had on record for Mr G, this 
shows the email as having been opened. It explains that due to the high volumes of claims 
received as a deadline had been set, there was an expectation that lenders could take up to 
24 weeks to reach an outcome. So, Im satisfied Mr G authorised FTR to act on his behalf in 
making a claim for mis-sold PPI. And that FTR had told him when PPI was found and kept 
him updated about his PPI claim.
I will now look to see whether Mr G asked FTR to stop working for him.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled after the 14-day
cooling off period. And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done,
telephone, email or in writing.
I think until PPI is found Mr Gs  agreement would have only been for a free PPI check. So, I 
consider the 14-day cooling off period would have started from the date Mr G would have 
been notified that PPI had been found. Mr G has said he wasnt using the email address 
FTR had for him, but as I outlined above the information was also sent to his mobile phone. 
This was on 21 October 2019, so Mr G would have had up to 3 November 2019 to cancel 
the agreement without cost. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr G asked FTR to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. In June 2020, B told both Mr G and FTR that his 
mis-sold PPI claim was successful. The notification clearly shows an FTR customer reference. 
And B says in their letter to Mr G that they made their decision:
 after reviewing the information provided by you, the information provided by Fast Track 
Reclaim, and our internal system evidence.I think this shows B saw FTR as being Mr Gs only representative and that they werent dealing 
solely with Mr G. 
And I havent seen any evidence that Mr G asked FTR to stop or question them as to why 
they were contacting him or why B clearly referred to FTR in their final response. And by 
not telling FTR he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling 
off period, theyd continued to provide their claims service. 
The agreement Mr G would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRS fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr G claim was 
submitted by FTR just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was successful. I think 
FTR is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with my decision but taking all of the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman