DRN-3821047
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander Consumer (UK) plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out finance for a car.
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the car finance in 2008.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint. Mr H provided some comments on my provisional decision that I 
will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander havent engaged with the complaints process, which has been unhelpful. 
However, I have seen some documentary evidence from around the time of the sale. So Ive 
primarily relied on this, plus information provided by Mr H, to decide whether or not the PPI 
was mis-sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says he applied for the loan online which was followed up by a phone call in which he 
was told that the PPI was mandatory for the loan to be agreed. However, from the 
paperwork that Ive seen, I consider it more likely that the finance and PPI was arranged 
during a meeting.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H says he absolutely refutes that the PPI was 
arranged in a meeting. I accept its possible that the sale was completed by phone. Ive 
thought carefully about this but it hasnt changed my decision because the wording and 
layout of the available paperwork suggests the optional nature of the policy.
The Conditional Sale Agreement sets out the terms of the hire purchase but makes no 
mention of PPI. That indicates that the PPI was presented as a different product, separate 
from the finance itself.
There is a separate form for the PPI which sets out the different levels of cover and 
associated costs. There is a cross in the box next to cover for life, critical illness, 
unemployment, accident and sickness. This indicates that Mr H has chosen this level of 
cover. He could have left all of the boxes blank if he had wanted to.
Mr H has reiterated that he wouldnt have taken the policy had he been given the option to 
opt out. As I said in my provisional decision, I have no doubt that Mr H has provided his 
genuine recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if his memory of it has faded somewhat. Im not persuaded that I can rely on Mr 
Hs recollections alone and disregard the other available evidence.
From what we know of these types of sales, the PPI was usually presented as optional and I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that something different happened in this case. On 
balance, based on the available evidence, I think its most likely that Mr H was given a 
choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he probably decided to buy it, knowing that 
he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
This wasnt an advised sale, which means that Santander didnt need to ensure that the 
policy met Mr Hs needs. But it still needed to provide Mr H with sufficient information for him 
to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr H would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his loan 
repayments if he was unable to work  because I doubt hed have decided to buy it without 
knowing anything at all about it. And the PPI form set out the different monthly premium 
costs for each level of cover. So Mr H would have been aware of the cost when deciding to 
buy the PPI.
Mr H would only have received statutory sick pay from his employer. He says his wife could 
have helped. But having the policy would have avoided the need for his wife to pay his loan 
repayments. Mr H says he had some savings but having the policy would have allowed him 
to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings. So Mr H had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. So I dont think more information would have caused Mr H 
to change his mind about buying it. As he is no worse off as a result of anything Santander 
may have done wrong, theres nothing that Santander needs to do to put things right. It 
follows that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman