DRN-2065902
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here 
was a little over three years old and had completed about 29,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The problem with the timing belt rattle was identified in September 2019 and the relevant 
legislation suggests, as the car had been in Mr Ms possession for some time, the onus 
would be on him to demonstrate the fault was present or developing when BMWFS were 
responsible for the cars quality  the point of supply. 
Mr M says the technical bulletin demonstrates that was the case. That bulletin explains that:
Customers may complain that the engine oil level is reducing, which also can be
accompanied by a rattle or tapping noise form the engine.  Under a certain driving pattern, 
the oil consumption on the HRA2DDT engine may increase significantly causing the oil level 
in the engine to be reduced. The increased oil consumption is caused by wear of the Piston 
Rings, which allows oil to be drawn into the cylinder and burned. The resultant low oil level 
can cause the Chain Tensioner to be starved of oil, causing failure of the Chain Tensioner 
and an associate rattle noise from the Timing Chain."
But Im not persuaded Mr M has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that fault 
affected his car. 
This wasnt a recall, but a technical bulletin provided to garages to consider if it applied to 
cars being serviced by them. I dont think it follows that all cars with this type of engine will 
suffer from this issue.
Mr M contacted the manufacturer and they were prepared to pay 50% towards the part. But 
they stressed this was a goodwill gesture and I dont think they accepted that Mr Ms car 
suffered from the problem identified in the bulletin.
In those circumstances I dont think there has been sufficient information provided to suggest 
this car had a problem or that a problem was developing in it when supplied and I therefore 
dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman