DRN-4077906
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) 
provided when he attempted to make a transaction to a third party using his credit card.
What happened
On 8 January 2023 Mr L wished to purchase a flight online (via a travel agent) for £684.95. 
In order for Mr L to complete his transaction, AmEx needed to provide a Safe Key code for 
authentication. Mr L received his SafeKey code on the same day at 7.15am via email (and 
he used this code to try and complete his transaction). However, he also received a SafeKey 
code to his mobile phone (although the digits differed to the one, he received via email). 
Mr L was under the impression his transaction was successful. However, he says 10 
minutes later he received a call from the travel agent who advised that the transaction hadnt 
been successful and told Mr L to contact AmEx. Mr L only had 15 minutes to complete the 
transaction before the price increased by £150. Mr L was unhappy with what had happened, 
so he raised a complaint.
AmEx investigated Mr Ls complaint but it said if a transaction doesnt complete it isnt billed 
to an account, and the incomplete authorisation drops off the system as it is unclaimed. It 
went on to say that its authorisation team confirmed that if the transaction had failed due to it 
not authenticating the transaction via SafeKey, it would show on its systems as declined. 
AmEx said it went on to consider if any other issues had been reported for that month in 
relation to SafeKey authentication and it confirmed it hadnt recorded any other issues.
Mr L remined unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. So, Mr L asked for the complaint to be 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reason. I will 
explain why. 
The issue in dispute here is why was the transaction was unsuccessful, which resulted in the 
cost of the flight (Mr L was trying to purchase) increasing by £150.  
Mr L believes the reason the transaction was unsuccessful was due to a computer glitch 
resulting in AmEx sending two SafeKeys with different codes. 
AmEx hasnt been able provide a copy of the email (in which it sent the first SafeKey codet), 
because it no longer holds it on its systems. But AmEx hasnt disputed that an email was 
sent. However, AmEx has been able to evidence that it issued a SafeKey code to Mr Ls 
mobile phone. I can see this shows transaction attempt for the travel agent Mr L was using 
to purchase his flight and the correct amount listed on the SMS message.
Mr L has been able to provide the email he received from AmEx with the SafeKey passcode 
included. Having cross referenced both codes, I can see they were different. I appreciate 
some confusion has been caused here, but having checked AmExs processes, I am 
satisfied it does send SafeKey codes (which differ) to customers emails and mobile phones 
for the same transaction. It is then up to the customer which source they choose to obtain 
the SafeKey from. The reason for this is so that AmEx can distinguish which code/source the 
customer obtained the SafeKey code from.
So, I am satisfied that the transaction request reached AmEx and it issued two SafeKey 
codes (which digits differed) to Mr Ls email and mobile phone. However, at this point it is 
unclear what caused the transaction to be unsuccessful. I would like to point out that where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence 
that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
While I appreciate Mr L says this is due to AmEx issuing two SafeKey codes which differed 
due to a computer glitch, I am not persuaded thats the case. I say this because AmEx has 
confirmed this is in line with its process. However, Ive also considered further evidence Mr L 
submitted to support his argument. He has provided evidence of SafeKey codes being sent 
to his email and mobile phone for another flight he booked at a later date with another 
airline, again he feels this was done in error. In Mr Ls own words, the same event 
occurred. He received a SafeKey via SMS and email (where the codes differed). He chose 
to use the code issued to his email address (like the transaction in dispute in this case) and 
the transaction was successful. Therefore, if AmEx had made an error by sending two 
SafeKey codes with different digits, and this was the cause for the transaction on 
8 January 2023 to be unsuccessful, I think on balance, it is likely his second transaction (the 
further evidence he submitted) would have also been unsuccessful. Therefore, I am 
persuaded AmEx issuing two SafeKeys with different codes to Mr Ls mobile phone and 
email, is AmExs normal process and wasnt the reason the transaction failed.
I have also considered what is likely to have happened after Mr L had input the SafeKey 
code. At this stage, if AmEx was responsible for not authenticating the transaction, it is likely 
to have shown on its systems as declined. However, as explained above, this is not the 
case. And while I dont doubt Mr Ls recollection of events, I cant rule out other possibilities 
for the transaction being unsuccessful, such as Mr L not entering the SafeKey Code 
correctly in the timeframe provided (10 minutes); or the merchant not completing the 
transaction. Therefore, based on the evidence I have seen, including the further evidence 
submitted by Mr L, I cant fairly conclude that the transaction failed due to AmEx.
However, even if I could conclude AmEx was at fault and it had failed to authorise a 
transaction, I also have to bear in mind the terms and conditions of the account, which say:
When we can refuse to authorise a transaction
If we dont authorise a transaction or a retailer doesnt accept the card, were not responsible 
for any loss
So, as the terms say AmEx isnt responsible for any loss as a result of an unsuccessful 
transaction, I wouldnt ask it to do anything further. 
I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed, but for the reasons I have explained, I cant fairly 
conclude that AmEx have done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman