DRN-4215476
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) took 
back a promotional offer hed complied with and therefore removed the benefit of the offer.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr S saw a promotional offer on the American Express app. It said if he 
spent £2,648 by the 29 January 2023 he would receive 20,000 membership points. Mr S 
spent the required funds and received the 20,000 points. However, In March 2023 American 
Express explained it had made a mistake where some customers had received two welcome 
offers when only one applied.
To rectify the mistake, they added information to their website and app to alert those 
customers affected of the issue and that theyd be removing 20,000 points from their 
accounts, including Mr S.
As Mr S had already moved the points and spent them, this left him with a negative point 
balance on his account. He complained to American Express about this. They apologised 
and explained the issue with the additional 20,000 member points and they had notified 
customers via messages on the mobile app and on their website. By way of apology, they 
applied 10,000 membership points to his account. But since they had already taken back the 
20,000 points provided in error this only reduced the negative point balance.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He felt he should receive the full 20,000 points or 
be financially compensated. Our investigator didnt ask American Express to take any further 
action. He felt the 10,000 membership points applied was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
As Mr S remains unhappy its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S took out the card in October 2022 American Express provided a welcome offer 
which entitled him to 30,000 membership reward points if he spent the required amount 
which he claimed. At the beginning of January 2023 they then added a new offer which said 
if customers spent £2,648 by the 29 January they would receive 20,000 membership points. 
Mr S took advantage of the offer as he was entitled to do and spent the required amount 
within the timescale provided. 
Whilst I recognise American Express encountered an error which meant the 20,000 point 
offer should never have been provided. Mr S wasnt aware of this at the time of taking the 
offer up. He spent the required funds and rightfully received the 20,000 points. Had he not 
spent the required amount and received the 20,000 points due to the error I can understand 
American Express position here. However, he had spent the required funds.
Having looked at his spending since October and January I can see that generally he was 
using it for day to day things but on the day he became aware of the erroneous offer in 
January he spent a large sum on his card, more likely because the offer had been presented 
to him. This also supports what Mr S has said that if the offer wasnt provided, he likely 
wouldve used another card to earn rewards on his spend. 
I recognise that Mr S had already moved the points and utilised them and as a gesture of 
goodwill American Express awarded 10,000 points reducing the negative balance. However, 
Mr S is still left with a negative balance on his account so its understandable he may not 
have wanted to spend on the account as anything earned will be reducing the negative 
balance as opposed to building his points balance.
Ive reached out to American Express and Mr S outlining my initial thoughts which 
highlighted that I thought Mr S was entitled to the points as he had met the qualifying spend 
for both offers on different occasions. As a resolution, as Mr S had already claimed his 
points, I felt American Express should put Mr S back in the correct position by crediting an 
additional 10,000 points which would bring his account back in credit. 
American Express agreed to do this. But Mr S remained unhappy as he felt it didnt fully 
compensate him for American Express handling, his time or that he had avoided using the 
card as he didnt see the benefit given that he wouldnt be earning anything only reducing a 
negative balance. He was also unhappy that American Express hadnt contacted him directly 
to alert him to the issue.
Ive considered Mr S further comments and whilst I understand it had taken some of Mr S 
time to bring a complaint, there are always going to be some nuisances in making a 
complaint. Ive also considered that he had already had use of the points so wasnt restricted 
from the use of them. And whilst I take his point in relation to the further use of the card. If 
we found that American Express hadnt treated him fairly as I have in this case, we would 
look to put him back in the position he shouldve been in. It was Mr S choice not to use the 
card further and not something I think it is fair to hold American Express accountable for. 
American Express hadnt contacted customers directly but used their various platforms to 
alert customers to the issue. I understand why Mr S wouldve liked to have been contacted 
directly and I think this would have been good customer service. But I also understand that 
for a wider message to be shared it likely impacted a lot of customers. And more widespread 
information shared via the app and website is likely to reach more customers quickly. Mr S 
did have to contact American Express about this but given that he had already transferred 
his points I think the impact of this was minimal.
Overall, to put things right I think Mr S should be put back in the right position in terms of his 
points. As American Express have already credited 10,000 points as a gesture of goodwill, 
they now need to credit a further 10,000 to rectify the 20,000 point deduction.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Limited should credit Mr S account with 
10,000 points to put him back in the position he would have been in before the 20,000 point 
deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman