DRN-3855932
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N has complained about the way that Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited dealt with its business interruption insurance claim and the settlement it offered after 
Ns business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr L is a director of N and has brought the complaint on Ns behalf.
What happened
N is a photography business working from a studio. It was set up in January 2020. It carries 
out a variety of photographic work, including portraits for the general public, weddings and 
commercial shoots. 
Mr L said by the time N was ready to begin trading in early 2020, Covid-19 intervened. As N 
didnt have access to support grants or any other government help, Mr L took another job. 
Ns turnover in 2020 was zero. 
N held a commercial insurance policy with Hiscox. In September 2020 it claimed on the 
policy for its business interruption losses caused by Covid-19.
In November 2021 Hiscox declined the claim. In December 2021 it reconsidered after 
receiving further information from Mr L. It said it would cover loss of earnings from portrait 
work as customers couldnt visit Ns studio for that purpose during the lockdowns (being from 
24 March 2020 to 15 June 2020 and from 5 November 2020 to 2 December 2020). It said 
the policy didnt cover loss of income for wedding photography as the reduction in demand 
for that work was due to the wider restrictions on weddings as opposed to N being unable to 
use its studio for that type of work. It said N could have continued to use the studio for 
commercial photography such as product shoots as its commercial customers were allowed 
to visit the studio for work purposes.
In February 2022 Hiscox asked N for a copy of its 2020 business plan and details of what it 
had spent on advertising and promotions in 2020. After that information had been provided 
Hiscox paid N £2,500 to settle the claim in April 2022.
Mr L was unhappy with the proposed settlement. He said the sum of £2,500 was only 
acceptable as an interim offer. He also complained that due to the delay on the part of 
Hiscox in settling the claim, he had been unable to relaunch Ns business. 
In June 2022 Hiscox told N it wouldnt increase its settlement offer. It said N hadnt shown 
what income it had lost or demonstrated how its business would have taken off but for 
Covid-19. 
Hiscox explained that it had participated in an industry test case brought by the Financial 
Conduct Authority on the application of various policy wordings to issues arising from the 
Covid-19 pandemic (the test case). It accepted it had asked for information which N had 
already provided. It apologised for not dealing with the claim more quickly and paid N £500 
compensation for that.
N brought its complaint to our service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
The claim was met under the section of cover for business interruption caused by an 
inability to use the premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of a notifiable human disease. The issue I have to decide is whether the 
settlement made is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy.
In the test case the Supreme Court held that an inability to use the insured premises  due to 
restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable human 
disease would be satisfied if a policyholder was unable to use the premises for a discrete 
part of its  business activities. I think Hiscox treated N fairly in saying that it would only cover 
the loss of portrait photography business as only that part of the business was restricted on 
the premises. Although obviously the other types of Ns photography business were severely 
impacted by the lockdowns, the relevant regulations didnt stop N from using the premises 
for those purposes.
The next issue is how much Hiscox should pay. N was insured for Loss of Gross Profit up 
to £250,000. That term is defined in the policy as:
The sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to any reduction in income during 
the indemnity period plus increased costs of working and alternative hire costs less 
any expenses or charges which cease or are reduced.
Rate of gross profit is defined as:
the percentage produced by dividing the gross profit by your income during the financial 
year immediately before any insured damage, insured failure or restriction.
The circumstances of this claim are unusual as the restrictions were imposed before Ns 
business had got off the ground, so there was very little financial information. N had spent 
£473.11 on shoot proofs and website fees. It showed Hiscox a business plan which was a 
sales forecast but I havent seen any evidence to support its projected turnover of almost 
£160,000 in the first year of trading especially since N appears to have had no income at all 
when it was able to trade from the beginning of January to the start of the first lockdown 
towards the end of March 2020. Since for understandable reasons Mr L took other 
employment after the first lockdown, unfortunately there was no other income later for 
Hiscox to take into account either.
Hiscox needed to take a pragmatic approach to verifying the claim because of the limited 
evidence. It made a settlement offer it thought was fair. The onus is now on N to show why 
that isnt the case  essentially N needs to evidence its insured loss is greater than the offer 
made. I dont think a business plan which appears to have been produced after the claim 
had been brought provides sufficient financial evidence to persuade me that Hiscox has 
treated it unfairly.
Next, I have looked at how Hiscox dealt with the claim. I dont think it should have taken until 
the end of 2021 for Hiscox to make a decision on the claim. In addition, it caused 
unnecessary inconvenience to N by wrongly declining the claim initially. However, I think the 
delay in N relaunching its business is more likely due to general economic conditions rather 
than the delay in paying the claim. So, all in all, I think compensation of £500 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.Hiscox didnt respond to my provisional decision. In summary Mr L made the following 
points:
Hiscox didnt ask for information on Ns advance bookings worth over £18,000 which 
would have showed N was ready to trade by the end of February 2020.
He had resigned from his employment in late February 2020 in order to start the 
photography business. He deferred his resignation due to all his advance bookings 
quickly being cancelled due to Covid-19.
He has a proven strong history in marketing, networking and photography.
The business plan was originally produced in November 2019 rather than after the 
claim. It was altered after the claim had been brought to take out wedding income 
and that version had been saved, thereby accounting for the post-claim date.
He could have successfully restarted the business but for the delay in settling his 
claim fairly.
He valued the total claim at £25,786.50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although I have summarised the points 
made by Mr L above, I have read his full submission carefully. I accept Mr Ls explanation 
about the date of the business plan.
For the reason explained in my provisional decision I think Mr L is only entitled under the 
policy to claim for the loss of portrait photography work. The issue is how much of a 
settlement Hiscox should pay N in respect of that.
Ive seen correspondence between Mr L and Hiscoxs loss adjuster after Hiscox had 
accepted Ns claim for losses on the portrait photography side of Ns business. In that 
correspondence Mr L and the loss adjuster discussed the difficulty of not having any prior 
trading history for N. Mr L didnt produce any evidence to Hiscox of advance bookings which 
were cancelled due to Covid-19.
It is a well-known principle of insurance that it is for the policyholder to prove their claim with 
reasonable evidence. I dont doubt what Mr L has said about his experience and skills. But, 
as things currently stand, Im not satisfied there is enough evidence to substantiate Mr Ls 
claim that Ns portrait photography business would have made such a strong start were it not 
for the lockdown restrictions and that its business interruption loss for this sort of work 
exceeds the amount of £2,500 which Hiscox has already paid. So, I do not consider that 
Hiscox has acted unfairly by failing to increase the settlement based on the current weight of 
evidence presented. 
I appreciate that Mr L has suffered a great deal of stress during the course of the claim, in 
particular from it initially having been incorrectly declined. However, I can only award 
compensation to N as the policy holder. For the reason set out in my provisional decision I 
remain of the opinion that the compensation already paid in this respect by Hiscox was fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman