DRN-4101401
The complaint
Ms H complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) have repeatedly sent her notifications regarding 
her ex- husbands bank account causing her emotional stress.
What happened
Ms H says following a separation from her husband in December 2021, she opened a new 
bank account with Lloyds in her sole name and their existing joint account was converted 
back to her husbands sole name. Ms H says despite several branch visits and numerous 
lengthy telephone calls with Lloyds, it continued to send her notifications regarding her ex- 
husbands bank account which caused her severe stress and worry. Ms H says despite her 
carrying out the actions on her banking app as she was told to by Lloyds, she continued to 
receive notifications regarding her ex-husbands account activity. 
Ms H says her ex-husband complained to Lloyds about breach of data and was awarded 
£500 for this and she feels given the upset she has gone through, without the matter being 
dealt with by Lloyds, she deserves the same level of compensation, not the £100 it originally 
offered her. 
Lloyds says it upheld Ms Hs complaint and after checking with its technical department it 
suggested to her that she needed to delete and reinstall the app. Lloyds believed it was Ms 
Hs device malware issues that was causing the issues. Lloyds says it offered Ms H £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused. Ms H wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the 
matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and initially didnt uphold the 
complaint. However, following further information provided by Ms H which proved the 
problems were still occurring, the investigator felt Lloyds hadnt correctly identified the root 
cause of the problem and recommended it increase the compensation payment to £300, 
given the time that had passed. Lloyds agreed to pay the increased offer, but Ms H didnt 
agree with the amount of compensation offered and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of the personal issues Ms H is facing and this must be a difficult time for 
her. I understand that receiving unwelcome notifications regarding her ex-husbands account 
would have been upsetting for her, so when looking at this complaint I will consider if the 
amount of compensation the investigator has recommended is sufficient here. 
The first thing to say here is Lloyds have now accepted it hasnt resolved the matter of the 
notifications to Ms Hs mobile phone, in a timely manner. Its also worth saying, while Ms H 
may not agree, the delays and customer service issues she experienced wasnt a breach of 
her personal data, more of her ex-husbands who has been compensated for that.Thats not 
to say Ms H hasnt experienced poor service here she has, but I cant look at this in the 
same way as if her own personal data had been compromised in anyway, as theres no 
evidence to suggest it has.
Its fair to say Ms H has had to visit local Lloyds branches and make numerous telephone 
calls before Lloyds were able to identify the cause of the problem regarding the text 
notifications she had and is still receiving. So, without trying to minimise the frustration this 
would have undoubtedly caused Ms H here, Lloyds have tried to make attempts to resolve 
the problem, albeit it took longer than would be reasonable to expect. 
So, when looking at this complaint I am left to consider whether the offer of compensation 
Lloyds initially made to Ms H was sufficient, given the issues she faced, rather than this 
being a matter of breach of her data  as it wasnt. Its worth saying its not my role to 
penalise businesses when service issues arise but more that it works with its customers to 
put matters right, and also offer a proportionate level of compensation. While that wasnt 
forthcoming originally, I am satisfied the increased level of compensation by three-fold to 
£300, recommended by the investigator and subsequently accepted by Lloyds, is fair and 
reasonable. 
Its important Lloyds and Ms H now work together to ensure this issue doesnt reoccur going 
forward. While Ms H will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Ms H £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Ms H £300 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman