DRN-3883910
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited unfairly defaulted his 
account when he was furloughed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 December 2022. This is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. 
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply. Ill look at any 
more comments and evidence that I get by 1 January 2023. But unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited unfairly defaulted his 
account when he was furloughed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr A says he struggled to make payments on his two Amex credit cards in 2020. This was 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic which caused Mr A to be furloughed by his employer. Also, he 
says he caught Covid-19 and was unwell for several months. 
Mr A says he requested a payment break, but Amex would only offer a bereavement 
payment break and he wasnt prepared to make a false statement. 
As Mr A s two accounts went into arrears, Amex suspended and then defaulted his 
accounts toward the end of 2020. 
Mr A complained to Amex as he felt this was unfair. Also, he wanted the opportunity to repay 
the accounts in full to avoid being refused a mortgage. 
Amex didnt uphold his complaint as they believed they had acted fairly and correctly. They 
informed Mr A that they had sent him statements and he had failed to make payments within 
the stipulated timeframes. Also, they said they had made attempts to contact him and had a 
responsibility to report the defaults to the credit reference agencies.
Mr A complained to our service. Our investigator was satisfied that the defaults were 
correctly processed. However, as Amex couldnt evidence how they supported Mr A when 
they became aware of his financial difficulties, she said she couldnt be satisfied that this 
was reasonable. So, she recommended that Mr A be provided with £150 compensation.
As Mr A remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a 
different view to the investigator.
As Mr A was severely impacted by Covid-19, I first considered the support offered by Amex 
together with business guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The FCA said that customers could have payment holidays for a period of up to three 
months and the business could agree to this twice. In addition, a third set of guidance issued 
by the FCA explained that consumers who had had two lots of three month payment 
holidays but whom might still be experiencing financial difficulty because of the impact of 
Covid-19, should continue to be given ongoing financial assistance by credit providers, such 
as Amex, following the end of the second three month payment holiday. 
So, when analysing the limited information provided by Amex, I cant see any evidence that 
they provided this type of support. Also, although neither party can provide any call 
information, Im persuaded by Mr As testimony and submissions and think its more likely 
than not that he requested a payment holiday before the defaults occurred. 
I then considered Amexs default action. There is evidence on file that Mr A missed 
payments and Amex followed their processes and terms and conditions when applying the 
suspension and default. However, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Amex to apply 
the default at the end of October. This is because I cant see they applied the above-
mentioned FCA guidance and, had they done so, they wouldnt be considering a default at 
this time. Also, Mr A did make some payments when he shouldve been given a payment 
holiday.
So, based on the information provided, Im satisfied that Amex didnt follow FCA guidance 
and I dont think they treated Mr A fairly or reasonably at a time when he was vulnerable due 
to Covid-19.
However, although I think Amex shouldve offered the above-mentioned payment holidays, 
Im mindful that the guidance was about short-term support and Amex shouldnt be expected 
to hold an account open indefinitely without payment. So, whilst Im sympathetic to Mr As 
circumstances and dont think he has been treated fairly by Amex, as he hasnt been able to 
provide any additional information to assess when and how his financial situation changed, 
Im not satisfied that he wouldve been able to make the necessary payments to Amex even 
if he had received the payment breaks described by the FCA. And, if he wasnt able to meet 
the payment terms this wouldve resulted in another default with his credit record being in a 
negative position for a longer period.
So, having considered all the above Im partially upholding this complaint. Im not asking 
Amex to reverse the default. However, I do think Amex should compensate Mr A for not 
offering him payment holidays as this caused additional distress. So, I consider £250 to be a 
more suitable amount of compensation.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this 
complaint and I require American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr A £250 
compensation.   
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 1 January 2023. 
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 1 
January 2023 deadline. 
However, neither party submitted any further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again, Im satisfied that Amex didnt follow FCA guidance and I 
still dont think they treated Mr A fairly or reasonably at a time when he was vulnerable.
However, although I think Amex shouldve offered the above-mentioned payment holidays, 
Im mindful that the guidance was about short-term support and Amex shouldnt be expected 
to hold an account open indefinitely without payment. So, whilst Im sympathetic to Mr As 
circumstances and dont think he has been treated fairly by Amex, in the absence of any 
additional information to assess when and how his financial situation changed, Im not 
satisfied that he wouldve been able to make the necessary payments to Amex even if he 
had received the payment breaks described by the FCA. 
And, if he wasnt able to meet the payment terms this wouldve resulted in another default 
with his credit record being in a negative position for a longer period.
So, having considered all the above, Im partially upholding this complaint. I appreciate it will 
be disappointing for Mr A that Im not asking Amex to reverse the default here. 
However, I do think Amex should compensate Mr A for not offering him payment holidays as 
this caused Mr A additional distress. I consider £250 to be a suitable amount of 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and American Express Services 
Europe Limited should make a payment of £250 to Mr A for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman