DRN-3538809
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with esure and was involved in an accident with another
vehicle. esure accepted liability for the incident on Mr Ss behalf. It said the dashcam footage
he provided showed him undertaking the third-party vehicle while it waited to make a right
turn, and it didnt think there was any liability on the third-party driver.
Mr S says he was allowed to make the manoeuvre as he did and thinks the third-party driver
failed to check their mirrors before making their turn.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld and they thought esures
decision was reasonable. They said the footage showed Mr S attempting to overtake the
third-party vehicle and they thought he appeared to have entered the cycle lane and crossed
over the zig zag lines in doing so.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He
doesnt think esure and our investigator had it right when they said he entered the cycle
lane. He also says he was near the zigzag lines but not on them and had stopped in that
area to wait for the traffic ahead to move on. Our investigator didnt change their opinion and
said while the footage doesnt show Mr Ss wheels went on the zigzag lines, the lines
indicate overtaking was prohibited in that area.
I issued my provision decision on 27 May 2022 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr S that I have considered all the information he provided, but I have not
specifically addressed all the points he raised. Instead, I have focused on those which were
key in reaching my decision.
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in
question, thats something for the courts to decide. Nor is it for us to decide whether the road
rules have been breached. Rather, its to look at whether esures investigation was fair, and
if the outcome it reached was reasonable.
Mr Ss policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says esure has full
discretion in the settlement of your claim  and  may take over, defend or settle the claim
in your name for our benefit.
This means esure can handle a claim however it sees fit. Even though it might mean it
makes a decision Mr S doesnt agree with, it is still allowed to make such a decision. That
said, we would also expect it to settle a claim in a fair and reasonable way, taking into
account all the facts and evidence provided by both sides. I understand Mr S doesnt think
he is responsible for the accident. But I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to make the
decision it did in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr S doesnt think he entered the cycle lane, and he also doesnt think he did anything
wrong by temporarily stopping in the area marked with zig zag lines. Having reviewed the
dashcam footage, Im not persuaded Mr Ss car does enter the cycle lane. However, I dont
think it makes a difference to the outcome whether he has entered the cycle lane or stopped
on the zig zag lines, and Ill explain why.
Mr S doesnt think esure has taken the highway code into consideration in its findings. I can
see from its notes it explained to him during a phone call that even though the highway code
allows him to undertake the third-party vehicle, it doesnt mean he is not at fault for the
incident and I agree.
In the notes on the claim, esures claims handler said the third-party vehicle, a refuse truck,
is a larger vehicle and should be given space to allow it to turn and manoeuvre. It doesnt
think Mr S did. The dashcam footage shows the third-party driver indicating their intentions
to turn. It also shows the truck positioned in such a way as to complete a right turn, before
Mr S stopped alongside it. While the truck is positioned closer to the right-hand side of the
lane, its clear from the footage there is only one lane. Mr S has stopped beside the truck,
leaving little room between his car and the third-partys truck. So, I think esures conclusions
are fair here.
Mr S doesnt think the third-party looked before completing their turn, but theres no way to
be sure of this, and even if there was, I dont think it changes things. This is because, esure
says as Mr S was undertaking the refuse truck, and there wasnt a second lane for him to
pull into, he would be the one held liable for the accident. As our investigator said, esure will
have experience of how cases like this usually fair before a judge in court. And where it
thinks there is little chance of the case succeeding, its not unusual for the insurer to settle
the claim as court proceedings can be costly. In this case, esure didnt think the third party
could be held responsible for the accident, so I dont think its unreasonable it accepted
liability for what happened.
Mr S also isnt happy about delays in reviewing the footage and communicating with him
about its liability decision. Having reviewed its claim notes, Im satisfied esure reviewed the
dashcam footage and made its decision to accept liability in a reasonable amount of time. I
note Mr S raised his initial complaint around the same time as its decision was made. So, I
think its understandable it began its investigation into the complaint before contacting Mr S,
which will have therefore contributed to the delay. Nevertheless, I think it should have
communicated its decision to him sooner than it did. I can see its agent recognised this and
apologised for the delay during a telephone conversation with him and I think thats fair.
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible for the accident, its to
consider if esure acted fairly and reasonably by accepting liability for what happened. I know
this will be disappointing to Mr S, but ultimately, Im satisfied esure considered the evidence
it had available before it made its decision. And, I find its decision to settle the claim fair and
reasonable, so I dont intend to tell it to do anything differently.
Both Mr S and esure now have until the due date set out above to send in any further
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
Mr S didnt agree with my decision and raised the following points. He says: 
I made an assumption in my decision, as the video does not in any way show his vehicle being too close to the truck. 
The highway code says the driver must check his nearside mirror before making his 
right turn manoeuvre. If the third-party driver checked his mirrors, he could clearly 
see Mr S was stationary by his side. He would have paused briefly for him to first 
move on.
Can I be absolutely certain that had the third-party driver checked his nearside 
mirror- he would have hit his stationary vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr S made in response to my provisional decision. I dont think 
hes provided any new information thats material to the case and that I havent considered 
previously. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the decision I reached. However, for 
clarity Ill address some of Mr Ss points. 
Without being present at the scene of the incident, its difficult to know exactly what 
happened. As such, my decision is based on a balance of probabilities and what I think is 
most likely to have happened.
Its not disputed that there is only one lane and Mr S has stopped alongside the truck in the 
lane which it is already occupying. Had there been enough space between Mr Ss car and 
the truck, I think its likely the third-party driver would have been able to complete his turn 
without colliding with Mr Ss car. 
Even if the third-party driver failed to check his mirrors before completing his turn, I think Mr 
S would still have been held liable for the incident. I say this because, esure explained that 
Mr S would be liable because he was undertaking the truck, and there was no second lane 
for him to pull into when he stopped. Therefore, I dont think its decision to accept 
responsibility for the incident was unreasonable. As such, I wont tell it to do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman