DRN-2648954
The complaint
Mr W complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2020 whilst on a trip abroad Mr W was the victim of a robbery. Upon his return home 
Mr W contacted UKI to lodge a claim. 
After assessing the claim it was partially agreed. UKI agreed to pay for the cost of an 
emergency passport and necessary travel costs, however they declined to pay for personal 
belongings that had been stolen as Mr W hadnt provided proof of ownership. Mr W 
complained and UKI reassessed the claim. They then agreed to pay for stolen items which 
had been reported to the police at the time of the incident. But UKI didnt agree to pay for 
items which werent reported to the police at the time which Mr W had told UKI about when 
the claim was lodged.
UKI paid Mr W £75 by way of compensation as an apology for delays and the level of 
customer service during the claims process.
Mr W was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened. They thought UKI should pay the rest of the claim for the stolen 
items that werent on the police report as well as £50 to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
this matter caused. They thought it was reasonable due to the circumstances that Mr W 
hadnt reported all the items to the police at the time. They also noted the police report said 
misc items which they thought made clear there were other items to be reported. UKI 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have agreed to pay for the cost of an emergency passport and essential travel, as well 
as for items listed on the report Mr W gave to the police soon after he was robbed. UKI 
declined part of the claim for valuables and money which were stolen. I think this was right 
as they were left unattended which isnt covered under the policy. 
The outstanding part of the claim that hasnt been paid is for a list of personal belongings 
which werent on the police report. Mr W made UKI aware of these items when he returned 
home and made his claim. Its this list of items I will focus my decision on.
UKI say whilst the situation might have been distressing and confusing at the time of the 
robbery when the police report was given, they feel Mr W had enough time when abroad on 
the rest of his holiday to recognise other items he had lost and have the police report 
amended. UKI have also taken into consideration the number and value of items not on the 
police report when deciding not to pay this part of the claim.  
It's not in doubt that the extra items werent listed on the police report. What Ive thought 
about is if I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to decline this part of the claim because of 
that. And having looked at the circumstances I dont think it is fair or reasonable not to pay 
the claim.
The terms of the policy say the policy holder should report any loss or theft to the police 
within 24 hours. They also say the policy holder should get a police report within 24 hours or 
as soon as possible afterwards. Mr W did both of these things. So Im satisfied Mr W did 
what was expected under the policy.
The policy says to report any loss or theft to the police. It doesnt say that every item must be 
listed or they wont be paid. I think this is important because Mr W did report the theft to the 
police on the day that it happened. 
The list of items on the police report includes misc items. I think this shows that there were 
other items which had been stolen that werent listed. And considering a robbery is a 
stressful time I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr W to be able to list every item which had been 
stolen. And at the time I think its reasonable that he might not have been aware of 
everything which had been stolen. Mr W was travelling with a group of people who had also 
had items stolen in the same robbery which caused confusion at the scene. So I think its fair 
that Mr W didnt declare all of the items on the police report.
UKI say that Mr W had enough time on the rest of his holiday to realise which extra items 
were stolen and to have the police report amended. 
I agree with the first half of this reasoning and indeed Mr W did have time to realise the full 
extent of his loss. This is confirmed by the fact that as soon as he returned home and 
contacted UKI he gave a list of the items not on the report. However I dont think the second 
part of the reasoning is fair on Mr W.  
Mr W was travelling on holiday with a group of people and they were moving around only 
spending a few nights in each different city. At the time of the robbery the group had stopped 
on their way travelling from one city to another to do some sightseeing. They werent staying 
in the town where the robbery occurred. This meant that the police report was completed 
quickly, which I think contributed to why not all items were listed. This also meant that as 
Mr W was travelling around, with pre booked accommodation in cities not near to the town 
where the robbery happened, it wasnt reasonably possible for him to return and alter the 
police report. And since he had reported the theft to the police, as required by the policy, I 
dont think he wouldve reasonably realised that he needed to do anything else other than 
contact UKI when he returned home, which is what he did. 
Looking at everything that happened I dont think its fair or reasonable, in the circumstances 
of this complaint, for UKI for decline the part of the claim relating to items not on the police 
report.
When dealing with our service Mr W asked for a compensation payment of £250 rather than 
the £50 our investigator recommended. Mr W said that as well as time spent dealing with the 
claim itself and he had spent more time and money when bringing the complaint to us. Ive 
considered everything that happened, including that UKI have already made a payment of 
£75. Having done so Im satisfied that the extra £50 our investigator recommended is a fair 
and reasonable amount. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited should pay the claim for the personal belongings Mr W made them aware of in his initial claim call which werent listed on the police report. This is subject to the 
policy limits and terms and conditions in the same way the original list of items was settled. 
They should add 8% simple interest from the date the other part of the claim was paid until 
this part of the claim is paid. 
U K Insurance Limited should also pay Mr W £50 for the trouble and upset this matter 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right U K Insurance Limited should take the actions Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman