DRN-3404670
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to 
her. She says the payments were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss M and Avant Credit had told us. And he thought 
that Avant Credit hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. Miss M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint.
Avant Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit provided Miss M with a loan for £2,500.00 in March 2015. It had an APR of 
93.87% and was to due be repaid in 24 instalments of around £189, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £4,535.29. 
Avant Credit says it agreed to Miss Ms application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss M. Avant Credit maintains that the information it obtained about          
Miss Ms income and expenditure showed shed be able to make the repayments she was 
committing to and, in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. 
On the other hand, Miss M has said she was in financial difficulty and has provided us with 
her bank statements. Ive carefully thought about what Miss M and Avant Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Miss Ms first loan with Avant Credit. The 
information provided suggests Miss M was asked to provide details of her income and 
expenditure. Its also important to note that this loan was supposed to be used to clear the 
two existing credit accounts Miss M had. 
Furthermore, Avant Credit did carry out external checks and didnt simply rely on what it was 
told. It carried out a credit search which didnt show anything too alarming (there was a 
default and one other account). Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, Miss Ms 
lack of any previous lending with Avant Credit and debt consolidation on the face of things 
seeming plausible here, I dont think it was unreasonable for Avant Credit to proceed on the 
basis of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to be accurate. 
I accept Miss Ms actual circumstances at the time may have been more accurately reflected 
in her bank statements. And I know that her circumstances later took a turn for the worse. 
But Avant Credit could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship and bearing in mind everything else, I 
dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Avant Credit asking Miss M to 
provide her bank statements.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think Avant Credit did anything wrong 
when deciding to lend to Miss M. It reasonably relied on plausible information and given the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Avant Credit to provide this loan.
So overall, I dont think that Avant Credit treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably when 
lending to her. And Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Even though Im not upholding this complaint, Id nevertheless like to remind Avant Credit of 
its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it chooses to 
continue pursuing the outstanding balance from Miss M and its the case that she is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman