DRN-3826263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their home emergency insurance (Homecare) policy with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of any agents  such as engineers acting 
on their behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr and Mrs W and British Gas. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr and Mrs W had a Homecare insurance policy with British Gas for a heating system at 
their non-main residence. In January 2022 they notified British Gas of a leak at their property 
and later registered a claim. Various delays occurred after this and eventually the repair was 
completed in June 2022. 
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to British Gas about how the claim was handled and the 
service theyd received. British Gas accepted that things didnt happen as they should have 
and initially offered £50, before increasing this to £200. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W referred 
their complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator recommended that the award of £200, be increased to £300. British Gas 
accepted this, but Mr and Mrs W didnt and their complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
As British Gas have accepted that the service they provided fell below what would 
reasonably be expected, my decision will be limited to considering what British Gas needs to 
do to recognise this and put things right. 
The impact on Mr and Mrs W
Mr and Mrs W have provided a detailed explanation of the impact of their experience and the 
delays in this claim being settled and have asked for compensation of around £15,000. Ive 
considered all of the points made by Mr and Mrs W, but wont comment specifically on all of 
them. 
From what Ive seen, the address where the loss occurred was not their main residence. I 
accept that they stayed at the property from time to time and had previously rented the 
property to tenants, but many of their arguments around the impact of the delays on them 
arent persuasive. This isnt at all to detract from the annoyance, inconvenience, frustration, 
and uncertainty that British Gas have caused them. 
In response to our Investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs W responded by email on 15 
November 2022 saying:
if we did not have use of another property, our family would have been homeless 
and would have had to live in a hotel for four to six weeks 
And;
we may well have decided to rent out the property if it had been habitable and 
therefore the lost rental income is a financial loss that we have suffered.
But I can only consider the realised impact to Mr and Mrs W - not hypothetical scenarios. I 
agree with Mr and Mrs W that if this were a familys main residence, its likely the flat 
wouldnt have been habitable (because of the mains water being turned off) during the 
period that this claim was ongoing. 
In their complaint form, Mr and Mrs W stated that they had intended to use the flat regularly 
after they stopped renting it out, but Ive not seen persuasive supporting evidence to fairly 
conclude that it was critically important [email dated 15 November 2022] that Mr and Mrs W 
had continued access to the property. I also note that Mr and Mrs W have referred to the 
previous rental income theyd received as a potential loss. But again, this is hypothetical. 
Had the flat been rented out and theyd actually lost out on rent because of how British Gas 
handled things, Id have considered this. 
In summary, the material impact on Mr and Mrs W has not been as great, relative to:
if theyd had tenants in the property; or
if this was their main residence/family home. 
But I reiterate - its clear that British Gas repeatedly let Mr and Mrs W down and caused 
them avoidable trouble and upset. Although British Gas are mainly responsible for the delays 
in progressing this claim, right at the beginning of the claim, Mr and Mrs W had decided to 
take a few weeks to consider their options. This contributed to the overall time taken.
There were also other factors beyond British Gas control - such as supply chain delays 
which meant the necessary order took a long time to fulfil. This is in addition to the numerous 
avoidable delays caused by British Gas actions  such as the order not being placed when it 
shouldve been. 
There were other costs incurred by Mr and Mrs W  such as hotel stays. I understand their 
argument that but for the claim taking as long as it did, theyd have had use of the flat to 
stay in.
I havent seen evidence that the cost of these stays was pre-approved by British Gas prior to 
Mr and Mrs W booking them. I accept that the remedial works needed to be supervised and 
British Gas will have needed to gain access to the property. Having compared online the 
correspondence address we have on file for Mr and Mrs W with the address where the loss 
occurred, its suggested that driving would take around one hour and 30 minutes (subject to 
traffic) and public transport around one hour 30 minutes to two hours. If Mr and Mrs W have 
chosen to stay in a hotel for a conference or convenience reasons, I cant reasonably direct British Gas to reimburse those costs. I note on other occasions they chose to take taxis 
(which Ill address below).
I also wont be directing British Gas to reimburse Mr and Mrs W for utility costs or service 
charges that were payable regardless of the ongoing claim. 
Summary 
On balance, I find the figure of £300 recommended by our Investigator to be a fair, 
reasonable and proportionate resolution to this complaint  relative to the impact on Mr and 
Mrs W.
Its very disappointing to see how British Gas handled this claim and the service they 
provided Mr and Mrs W with. But, the awards our Service make are modest and are not 
designed to punish businesses for mistakes. Our Service is not the regulator of financial 
businesses. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA). 
I also find it reasonable that British Gas reimburse Mr and Mrs W their travel costs subject to 
reasonable proof for the dates of 26 February 2022 and 29 May 2022. This doesnt included 
hotel stays.
Putting things right
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £300 for the trouble and upset their actions have 
caused. I note from the complaint file that £200 may have already been paid. Any 
outstanding amount should now be paid. 
Subject to reasonable proof, reimburse Mr and Mrs W for their travel costs for the 
dates of 26 February 2022 and 29 May 2022.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to follow my direction as set 
out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman