DRN-2876025
The complaint
Mr P complains about loans provided to him by Commsave Credit Union Limited 
(Commsave) which he says was unaffordable.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In May 2017, Commsave provided Mr P a loan for £2,500 over a two-year repayment 
period. The weekly repayment was £31 deducted directly from Mr Ps wages.
In August 2017, Mr P applied for a top-up loan of £1,750 over a two-year period. The 
weekly payment increased to £49.
In September 2017, Mr P contacted Commsave to say he needed to reduce the 
weekly payment and he was considering entering a debt management plan. The term 
of the loan was extended, and the payment reduced to £42 per week. The savings 
built up in the account were used to do this.
In January 2018, Mr P cleared the outstanding loan balance. He then applied for a 
£14,000 loan. This was declined, but Commsave offered a loan of £4,000 instead. 
However, the following month, Mr P got back in touch to discuss a debt management 
plan. And in September 2018, he explained he was in financial difficulty and the 
weekly payments were reduced.
Mr P has since then asked Commsave if he can apply for further loans. He was told 
before further lending could be agreed, balances on all outstanding loans would need 
to be cleared.
Mr P complains that the lending by Commsave was unaffordable. He says he made it 
clear to Commsave on several occasions that he was in financial difficulty, yet it 
continued to lend. He says Commsave didnt carry out sufficient checks.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks for any of the loan applications. Commsave didnt agree 
and asked for the case to be considered again.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. And I 
need to consider this for every loan. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen copies of the loan applications Mr P made, and the household income and 
expenditure he declared each time. Commsave has said it considers household income and 
expenditure as part of affordability where both are included on the application. But Ive 
looked at the applications and loan agreements, and they are only in Mr Ps name  not his 
partners. So, I have to consider whether it was fair for Commsave to consider household 
income on a sole named loan.
In making his complaint to us, Mr P has admitted that he had a gambling addiction at the 
time and so on the applications he included his partners income in the hope it would mean 
the loans were approved. He said she had no knowledge of the loans he was taking out and 
wasnt making any payments towards them. From what Ive seen Commsave didnt ask for 
any information related to her income and she wasnt named on the application or making 
any contribution to the loan. So, in this case I dont think it was fair or reasonable for 
Commsave to take into account her income when assessing his affordability.
When Mr P applied for the May 2017 loan, he said it was for furnishings, but he has since 
admitted to us he used it for gambling. He declared his expenditure as £410. However, in 
assessing the application Commsave found there was an outstanding debt for another loan 
 company F, with a balance of £9,686 and monthly payments of £367. Mr P says he didnt 
declare this as he wanted his expenditure to appear as low as possible. 
Commsave updated the expenditure to reflect this but didnt question it or ask for any bank 
statements or wage slips to support the application. Commsave has shown us under it 
lending policies, it doesnt ask for bank statements if the application is below a certain 
amount. However, as it knew Mr Ps application wasnt accurate by at least £367 (which is 
substantial to his declared £410 outgoings). I think Commsave in this case shouldve 
requested more information such as bank statements to check whether there were other 
expenditures from his account that hadnt been declared in the loan application. So, Im not 
persuaded Commsave completed reasonable and proportionate checks in the 
circumstances of this application.
Also, just a few months later Mr P applied for a top-up loan and again his partners income is 
included and his £367 expenditure for the loan isnt declared. This time Mr P told Commsave 
the loan was for cars and motorcycles he has since told us it was used for gambling. Again, 
Commsave didnt request any further information to assess the loan application. And 
knowing Mr P hadnt included the debt again, its unclear to me why it didnt question this 
further especially when topping up the loan so soon from granting the previous loan.
Within a month of this loan being agreed Mr P told Commsave the weekly payments were 
unaffordable, and he was in discussion with a debt management charity about setting up a 
debt management plan. This does indicate to me that this loan was unaffordable. 
Commsave explained it would need to receive the proposal from the charity before taking 
any action. But it arranged to reduce the weekly payments. 
Moving onto the January 2018 application. I can see Mr P cleared the Commsave loan 
balance of £3,251.29  he has told us his parents lent him the money. Mr P made Commsave aware he did this as he wanted to apply for another loan. The next day he 
applied for a £14,000 loan. This time he told Commsave the loan was for credit cards and 
loan consolidation  Mr P said he was using the funds to clear the loan from company F and 
the remaining balance was going to be used for a new car.
Mr P was asked to provide bank statements and wage slips for this application which he did. 
Commsave declined the £14,000 application, but instead offered a £4,000 loan.
Again, Ive looked at what Mr P declared on his application and it shows his partners net pay 
and he also declared his monthly net pay as £1906.66 however looking at the wage slips for 
December 2017 and January 2018, they show weekly payments of approximately £300-
£400 each week, this is less than the amount declared. I cant see Commsave questioned 
this. 
Having looked at Mr Ps credit report for January 2018 it showed the following:
 Under indebtedness indicators: a balance of £18,555 
 A default within the previous 12 months 
 7 accounts opened in the last 6 months 
 31 searches on his credit report in the last 12 months
Our investigator asked Commsave why given this information, it didnt carry out further 
checks. It said it isnt unusual for its members to have some adverse information on their 
credit files. It also said the loan was issued on a condition that no further top up loans would 
be offered until the loan was repaid. 
The expenditure declared on the application for loans and credit cards was for £379 where in 
reality this was nearer to £800 per month. He was also in arrears on one of his loans. I can 
see Commsave did consider actual expenditure rather than declared but I think this 
shouldve raised concerns as to why Mr P wasnt telling the truth about his expenditure on 
his application forms. I also think Commsave shouldve questioned further why Mr P had 
applied for two loans within six months for the same purpose - purchasing a new car.
Ive also considered that Commsave were already aware in September 2017 that Mr P was 
in financial difficulty  although I appreciate it didnt receive a debt plan following that 
conversation. But just one month after taking this £4,000 loan Mr P contacted Commsave 
again to discuss a debt management plan as he said he had split from his partner. Im 
therefore persuaded that this loan was also unaffordable as this happened so soon after the 
loan was granted.
I understand Commsave are entitled to rely on the information Mr P supplied - and it wasnt 
aware of his gambling addiction. But common warning signs that someone may have a 
gambling problem include borrowing money on a regular basis, having several loans at one 
time and hiding what the money is being used for. Commsave were aware that Mr P was 
asking for loans in quick succession. I appreciate Commsaves underwriting criteria might be 
that it didnt have to ask for documents such as wage slips and bank statements. But given 
that it appears Mr P was trying to hide his debt, so the loan application was agreed, it 
wouldve been reasonable in this case for Commsave to ask for more information such as 
bank statements. If it had it wouldve highlighted his outgoings. I appreciate it wouldnt have 
highlighted the gambling, but it wouldve shown lots of transfers between Mr Ps different 
accounts and I wouldve expected Commsave to have questioned this further.
Overall, Im not persuaded Commsave carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for 
any of the loan applications. Mr P continually didnt declare his full expenditures about loans on his application forms and albeit Commsave may have taken into account correct 
expenditure and it was within the tolerances it expected it doesnt mean Commsave 
shouldnt have considered the applications fully, especially given that it knew Mr P was 
considering a debt management plan (and so was in financial difficulty). But despite this, it 
went on to offer a further loan (albeit for a smaller amount than he had applied for) just four 
months later. Mr Ps credit report showed larger credit balances than declared in the January 
2018 application, and his bank statement showed many transfers to other accounts. I think 
that if Commsave had questioned this, it wouldnt have thought Mr P could sustainably repay 
the loans. As a result of Commsave not doing this, I think Mr P found himself in a more 
difficult financial situation causing him stress and upset.  
Putting things right
To put things right I direct Commsave Credit Union Limited to;
Remove all interest and charges applied from the start of each loan This will mean a 
new starting balance of only the amount that is lent, and from that Commsave should 
deduct payments already made. If this results in Mr P having paid too much, those 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr P, with 8% simple interest1 from the date of 
calculation. 
If there is an outstanding balance, then this should be written off.
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for the stress and upset. Commsave must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
1HM Revenue & Customs requires Commsave Credit Union Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. If it deducts tax it must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax, its taken off if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman