DRN-3206984
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr A was an existing personal customer of Barclays and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan. As Mr A didnt hold any business accounts with the bank, an 
appointment was made for him to attend a branch on 1 July 2020 to open one before he 
could proceed with the loan application.
When Mr A attended the branch for his appointment, he found that it wasnt open. The 
appointment had been booked for 9.15, but the branch didnt open until 10. Mr A completed 
his account application with the banks business manager later that day. The business 
manager said that he would arrange 12 months free business banking as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr A says the business manager also said he would be in touch that day to advise whether 
the account application had been approved. But he didnt get a call back as promised  and 
despite a number of attempts to obtain an update from Barclays, he didnt hear anything 
further until 8 July  when the bank advised him of a delay in opening his account. 
Mr As account application was approved and the account was opened on 9 July. Mr A 
subsequently applied for a Bounce Back Loan, which was approved and drawn down on 
14 July.
When Mr A complained to Barclays about the service hed received, Barclays agreed that 
the branch appointment shouldnt have been arranged for 9.15. It apologised for the service 
Mr A had received, while highlighting that the coronavirus pandemic meant it was 
experiencing a higher volume of calls and running its operation with limited staff. It offered to 
pay Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience and to cover the cost of parking while 
attending his appointment. 
Mr A remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that hed spent over 17 hours 
on the phone to Barclays, much of which was spent on hold  and when he did speak to 
someone, he was lied to and misinformed as to what was happening. He also said that on 
one occasion, hed been kept on hold for so long hed been late for work  costing him 
wages.
While the complaint was with us, Barclays accepted that it shouldnt have required Mr A to 
open a business account in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. At the same time, the 
bank said that one ought to have been opened as Mr A shouldnt have been using a 
personal account for business purposes anyway, and that it would always have needed to 
set up a business relationship to proceed with the loan application. Mr A subsequently 
closed the business account. And in recognition of its error, Barclays offered to increase the 
compensation amount to £150. 
One of our investigators reviewed the matter and thought Barclays needed to do more. He 
thought that all of the problems Mr A had experienced couldve been avoided, as hed not 
needed to open the business account in the first place. For the stress and inconvenience 
that Mr A had been caused through the appointment and subsequent hours of phone calls, 
he recommended that Barclays pay Mr A £200. But he said there was no evidence that Mr A 
had lost out on work as a result of his time on hold, and in any event he thought it had been 
Mr As decision to stay on the call.
Barclays accepted our investigators assessment, but Mr A didnt. So with no resolution, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint last month, setting out why I thought 
Barclays should pay a higher compensation amount of £350. I said:
Under Barclays process, there was no requirement for Mr A to open a business 
account in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. There was, though, a need for him 
to enter into a business relationship  setting up a business customer profile with the 
bank. Thats something that the bank was allowed to require under the rules of the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme.  
This means that while Mr A wouldve had to go through a certain level of procedure 
with the bank and provide it with some information about his business, it would not 
have been nearly as involved as the account application was. 
Requiring Mr A to open an account meant he needed to visit a branch unnecessarily; 
an experience that was still more inconvenient and stressful than it shouldve been, 
as a result of a further mistake by the bank in scheduling it 45 minutes before the 
branch opened. And the branch itself wasnt local to Mr A, so he was required to 
undertake a three-hour round trip to attend.
Mr A says that during the appointment on 1 July, he was promised an update by the 
end of the day as to whether the account had been successfully set up  and that all 
being well, hed be able to submit an application for the Bounce Back Loan by the 
end of the week (3 July) and receive the funds by the following Wednesday (8 July). 
But the business manager he dealt with says that he did not specify a guarantee 
date, and the bank says its usual timescale for opening a business account was 
between five and seven working days. 
Its difficult for me to decide exactly what Mr A was told with any certainty. But either 
way, the consequence is much the same  in that I think it was quite reasonable for 
Mr A to chase things up given the urgency with which he needed the loan (in order to 
apply for the Bounce Back Loan). Ive not seen that he was given any meaningful 
updates during that time. And of course he wouldnt have needed to follow up at all, 
had the bank not wrongly required him to open an account in the first place. 
Mr A has explained, and evidenced, that he spent a significant amount of time on the 
phone to Barclays in the days after the appointment. This wouldve caused him some 
further inconvenience. But I dont think its fair to say that the calls caused him any 
financial loss  as its reasonable to suggest that it was a matter for him to decide 
whether to prioritise a call to chase up his account application over his work. 
I recognise the banks comments that the pandemic impacted the level of service it 
could provide Mr A, including the wait times that he experienced when calling. But I dont think thats particularly relevant here, as Mr A shouldnt have needed to call the 
bank in the first place  as he shouldnt have needed to apply for an account.
As touched on above, I also appreciate the urgency of the matter for Mr A given that 
the account was only being obtained in order to access the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme  a means of financial support during the pandemic. So all of the issues he 
experienced will have added to what was already a stressful time.
Taking all of the above into account, I intend to require Barclays to pay Mr A 
compensation of £350, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
errors and the costs of his unnecessary branch visit.
Mr A said he largely accepted my provisional findings, although highlighted a particular call 
where hed been waiting on hold for four hours  only to find out later that the department 
hed been put through to was closed. Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision 
but didnt reply with any further comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence from either party for me to take 
into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So this decision 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
I should reassure Mr A, though, that when reaching my provisional decision I did take into 
account the experience he described of being left on hold for a number of hours after the 
bank put him through to a department that turned out to be closed for the day. I appreciate 
this wouldve been extremely frustrating and of course time-consuming  and this was 
factored into the compensation award I proposed in my provisional decision.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A compensation of 
£350.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman