DRN-2802143
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance, dealt with his request to settle his finance agreement.
What happened
In January 2016, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Barclays. The agreement was for 48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £161.28 and 
a final payment of £360.28.
Mr h had fallen behind with his payments and, on 29 March 2019, Barclays called him to 
discuss the arrears on his account. Mr H was unhappy with this call because Barclays said 
they were calling from their collections department before verifying his identity. Mr H 
complained to Barclays as he considered this was a data breach. Barclays didnt agree 
theyd breached any data, but they said they shouldnt have said which department was 
calling. And they paid Mr H £300 compensation on 11 April 2019 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr H also called Barclays on 5 April 2019 to clear the outstanding balance on his account. 
He was unhappy because of the questions Barclays asked him on this call; because he 
wasnt allowed to use a credit card to clear the balance; and because he was given an 
incorrect settlement figure. He was also unhappy because, during the subsequent 
complaints process, Barclays wouldnt transfer him from their collections team to their 
customer services team.
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint about the 5 April 2019 call on 28 June 2019. They 
acknowledged theyd given him the incorrect settlement figure, and this left £161.28 owing 
on the account. And theyd chased Mr H for this while his complaint had been ongoing. 
Barclays confirmed theyd write-off the amount owing, because of their error, and that they 
would ensure the credit reference agencies didnt record this as arrears. They also offered 
Mr H a further £300 compensation for this.
Mr H was unhappy with Barclays response and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said she didnt think thered been any data breach in the call on 29 March 
2019. She thought it was reasonable that Barclays asked Mr H questions about settling his 
account, because he was in arrears  they had a duty to ensure that settling the account 
early didnt cause Mr H any financial difficulties. She also thought it was reasonable that 
Barclays wouldnt let Mr H settle the finance agreement using a credit card theyd provided, 
as this would only transfer the debt to a product with a higher interest rate.
The investigator appreciated Mr H was frustrated because Barclays were unable to transfer 
a call about an account in arrears from their collection department to their customer services 
team. But she thought Barclays had taken this into consideration when they made their offer.
Finally, the investigator said Barclays had removed the incorrectly recorded settlement 
arrears and confirmed that this hadnt adversely impacted Mr Hs credit file. Given all of this, 
she thought the £300 additional compensation Barclays had offered was reasonable, and 
she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, and this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H was supplied with a car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. But Im 
only able to consider regulated activities. Mr H isnt happy with how Barclays dealt with his 
complaints, or with how long it took them to issue him with a final response. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority, so its not 
something Ill be able to consider. Because of this, my decision will focus on the other 
aspects of Mr Hs complaints.
Ive listened to all of the calls and reviewed all of Barclays case notes and the other 
evidence. I can see its not disputed that, in the call of 29 March 2019, Mr H asked the agent 
what department they were calling from. And, in reply, the agent started to say collections. 
This took place before Mr H had been asked any security questions, and before Barclays 
had verified they were talking to the right person.
Mr H was rightfully upset about this call, as Barclays shouldve verified his identity first. But, 
crucially, I dont think that there was any breach in Mr Hs data  no personal or account 
specific information was provided. And, while Mr H is concerned that anyone answering the 
phone wouldve known he had an account in arrears, Barclays phoned Mr Hs personal 
mobile number and they spoke to Mr H. So the scenario that concerned Mr H didnt happen, 
and I can only consider what has happened, and not what mightve happened under different 
circumstances.
Barclays offered Mr H £300 for the upset this call had caused Mr H, and Ive seen that this 
amount was paid to him. Im satisfied that £300 was reasonable given all the circumstances, 
so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more about this.
Mr H had a call with Barclays on 5 April 2019, when he wanted to settle his account in full. 
Where a customer has arrears, financial businesses have a responsibility to ensure payment 
arrangements are affordable and dont add to the customers financial difficulties. And this 
responsibility extends to early repayment of an account in arrears, as was the case here.
Barclays asked Mr H questions to try and establish whether repaying their finance early 
would add to any financial difficulties - to make sure the finance wasnt being cleared from 
borrowing at a higher interest rate etc. And this is the reason why they wouldnt let Mr H use 
his credit card to clear the finance. I appreciate that Mr H considered these questions to be 
intrusive and irrelevant, and he didnt want to answer them. But I dont think that this means 
Barclays did anything wrong by asking them.Barclays provided Mr H with a settlement figure, and he paid this in good faith, assuming it 
would clear the outstanding balance. But the figure he was given was wrong  itd been 
calculated on the basis that the next payment would also be paid, which wasnt the case. So 
the settlement figure paid was one payment short of what it shouldve been. Because of this, 
Mr H was chased for the outstanding balance. And, from the calls Ive heard, Im satisfied 
this situation caused Mr H a lot of anxiety and distress.
If Barclays had provided Mr H with the correct settlement figure, then Mr H wouldve needed 
to pay an additional £161.28. So, while Barclays were within their rights to ask Mr H to pay 
this, Ive seen they wrote-off the outstanding balance as a result of their error. They also 
ensured that the credit reference agencies arent reporting any arrears after Mr H paid the 
settlement figure he was asked to pay, and that his finance is showing as being settled. This 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Barclays have also offered to pay Mr H an additional £300 for the trouble and upset caused 
by the wrong settlement figure being given, taking the total compensation to £761.28. Mr H 
doesnt think this is sufficient for all of the stress and anxiety hed been caused. But some of 
this resulted from how Barclays dealt with his complaints, and because of the issues hed 
had when trying to speak to Barclays about this. However, for the reasons stated above, Im 
not able to consider the complaint handling as its not a regulated activity. 
So Im only looking at the original error and that Barclays chased Mr H for the outstanding 
balance as a result. And I think the £300 Barclays have offered for this is reasonable in the 
circumstances. So I wont be asking them to increase this offer. Its now for Mr H to decide 
whether to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman