DRN-2635244
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) has not refunded him for 
a number of items that hes returned. Hes also unhappy that theyve decided to close his 
account because of the number of items that have been returned and refunded.  
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 26 January 2021, which said:
For many years Mr H has held a catalogue account with Very which he and his 
daughter uses regularly. The account had a limit of £10,000 which Mr H says they 
use exclusively on the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option. BNPL is an option offered 
by Very, which allows its consumers to benefit from interest free purchases, so long 
as the full balance of that item is paid off within 12 months. Mr Hs daughter, Miss H, 
is a representative on this complaint.
 
The main complaint points raised are:
Very has removed Mr Hs ability to buy any more items and Mr H can only 
use the account to repay his balance. At that point, the account will be closed. 
Mr H is concerned that his credit rating has been affected by the account 
limitations; hed temporarily gone beyond the credit limit after Very had 
restricted it to £3,150 from £10,000
Mr H ended up having to pay for a more expensive mattress after the one 
ordered was cancelled in transit because it was damaged and faulty
The purchase of a faulty Alienware monitor led him to having to pay more 
than the intended amount and not receiving the refund when returned
Several items that have been returned to Very havent been recredited to his 
account
A rose gold frying pan that wasnt received by Mr H hasnt been re-credited to 
his account
Two bedside cabinets that should have been collected in 2017 as returned 
items, still havent been collected or refunded by Very
Mr H has been in regular contact with Very over the past few years to express his 
concerns regarding the above which Very has addressed as three separate 
complaints. At the time of my considering of this complaint, Very has provided Mr H 
with two final response letters:
one sent on 31 May 2018 addressing the bedside cabinets and around 40 
returned items. This complaint wasnt upheld by Very; and 
one sent on 21 May 2019 addressing the return of Alienware monitors and 
the bedside cabinets again. This complaint had been upheld and Mr H was 
sent a cheque for £50 in recognition of the poor customer service he 
received.
Very has said that the concerns regarding the account closure and its impact on Mr 
Hs credit file are being investigated separately with a different complaint reference.
 
Unhappy with the ongoing problems and the responses received from Very, Mr H 
brought his complaint to us here. I acknowledge that a referral about Mr Hs 
complaint in 2018 was made to us that year however it hadnt been progressed 
pending further involvement from Very. 
One of our investigators looked into his more recent concerns and found that Very 
hadnt done anything significantly wrong and decided that what theyd offered was 
fair and reasonable. Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked 
for matters to be reviewed.
What Ive decided and why
When looking into this complaint Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The first complaint raised in 2018
Having reviewed Mr Hs concerns I can see that he remains unhappy following both 
response letters from Very. In June 2018 Mr H brought his complaint to us. This was 
after hed received the first final response letter from them dated 31 May 2018. This 
means wed received a referral and are able to review the concerns covered in the 31 
May 2018 final response letter. 
We hadnt provided a view on that complaint and its likely to be that we were 
awaiting further involvement from both parties. 
In this latest complaint Mr H has explained that he still believes the complaint raised 
in 2018 hasnt been resolved. This was made clear in the concerns raised about the 
bedside cabinets and the reference to the 40 items not refunded. 
Mr H still remains unhappy about this. However Ive decided not to address in this 
decision the concerns relating to the 40 items. I think itll be fairer for both parties for 
our service to deal with those concerns separately and allow Very and Mr H the 
opportunity to share their views. If necessary, a determination can then be made on 
whether Very acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Ive passed this element of Mr Hs complaint to one of our investigators wholl look 
into it further to provide their view. Theyll be in contact with both parties to progress 
things accordingly.
In this decision Ill be addressing the bedside cabinets because they were also raised 
in the final response letter from Very in May 2019 and they have taken further action 
on it more recently. 
Account limitations, closure and impact to credit ratingIve also decided not to include the concerns around the account limitations, closure 
and credit rating within this decision. My reason for doing so is because these 
concerns are being dealt with under a separate complaint reference and I think it 
makes sense to do so. Keeping these issue separate should provide additional clarity 
on the outcomes of various concerns. 
The mattress
On 30 November 2019, using Mr Hs account, Miss H ordered a Mia 1000 pocket 
ortho mattress double for her son at a discounted price of £199, reduced from £450. 
It was due to be delivered on 6 December 2019. On that day Miss H explained that 
she took an unpaid day off work for the delivery and decided to take her sons 
existing mattress to the skips before the delivery arrived. However, later that day she 
was notified by the courier that the order had to be cancelled because the mattress 
was damaged. Miss H called Very to sort out a replacement however she was told by 
Very that initially a new mattress would have to be purchased at full price and then 
theyd refund the difference of the discounted amount. 
The account statements Ive seen confirms that the delivery charge was refunded on 
6 December 2019 and the mattress refunded on 10 December 2019. A replacement 
order was made on 6 December 2019 and delivered ten days later. The correction for 
the price difference was made on the same day.
I acknowledge the disappointment and inconvenience that Miss H and her son would 
have experienced as a result of the mattress having to be re-ordered. While she 
waited for a replacement, Miss H explained that her son had to sleep on the floor 
because shed decided to dispose of the original mattress in advance of receiving the 
new one. I appreciate Miss H feels strongly about this issue. The situation she found 
herself in, particularly with her sons sleeping arrangements, was far from ideal. 
In the circumstances, and from the evidence Ive seen, I dont see Very as being 
responsible for this difficulty. I wouldnt expect it to deliver a damaged item, and it 
isnt responsible for Miss Hs decision to dispose of the mattress before the new one 
arrived. Miss H was notified on the scheduled day of delivery that the mattress was 
damaged. Soon after she was told that shed have to purchase another at full price 
before a correction of the difference was put through. And after another order had 
been placed the delivery was carried out ten days later. 
I do however acknowledge that Very could have gone about things slightly differently. 
For example Im not entirely certain why Mr H was expected to purchase another 
mattress at full price and then to be refunded the difference on that. Im also 
uncertain as to why Very hadnt simply arranged for a replacement item to be 
delivered at no further inconvenience to Mr H. However, Im not sure what they did 
do caused any further or unnecessary delay, and for this reason together with the 
evidence Ive seen I cant say that Very has acted unfairly. rose gold frying pan  
This complaint relates to a set of three items ordered by through Mr Hs Very account 
by his daughter. On delivery Miss H explained that a neighbour had witnessed the 
items being left on the doorstep by the courier. However, when Miss H returned from 
work the items were not there. When the issue was raised with Very and a refund 
requested, Miss H explained they refunded only two of the items in the package and 
not the third, a rose gold frying pan set.
From the statements provided I can see that on 24 September 2019 the following 
items had been ordered:
a linear rose gold 2 piece frying pan black (ref M4E6T1P) for £27.99 
a linear rose gold 28cm saut pan black (ref M4E6U15); and
a linear rose gold 3-piece saucepan black (ref M4E9H21). 
On 26 September 2019 I can see that the two items M4E6U15 and M4E9H21 had 
been refunded as not being received. The statements provided support what Miss H 
has said about receiving a refund for two of the items and not the third, and as Ive 
had no further explanation from Very about these items, I think its more likely than 
not that the third item, M4E6T1P, being part of the same delivery, was also not 
received but hasnt been refunded to the account. Unless I see any reasonable 
supporting evidence to the contrary, Ill be asking Very to credit Mr Hs account with 
the value of item M4E6T1P, £27.99 along with any interest incurred.
computer hardware 
On 15 December 2018, an order was placed for an Alienware monitor. However, as 
the incorrect item had been delivered the monitor was returned and £899.99 had 
been refunded to Mr Hs account. On 26 December 2018 a replacement monitor was 
ordered however, this too was returned as it was found to be faulty, and a refund was 
arranged on 11 April 2019. On the same day an Alienware monitor for £999.99 was 
ordered, this also was faulty and returned. A temporary credit was made by Very on 
15 April 2019 however this was later reversed and credited to the account on the 
BNPL terms. In May 2019 when Very were made aware that the refund hadnt been 
fully received and provided with a tracking number to confirm, they refunded the 
amount in full.  This took some time as the final refund was made some months later 
on 31 October 2019. 
Very has acknowledged their mistake explaining the item hadnt been logged 
correctly in their warehouse which had caused the misunderstanding. In total, Very 
has offered £100 compensation for this, which I find to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Besides the inconvenience of having to chase Very to correct the 
order, from the evidence Ive seen I cant see that Mr H materially lost out as a result 
of this mistake.
Several other items not refunded
Mr H and Miss H have explained that over the past year many other items have been 
returned and yet not refunded to them. As explained earlier the list of items that were 
raised in Mr Hs complaint from 2018 will be reviewed separately by one of our 
investigators, so I wont be dealing with those concerns in this decision.However, Miss H had also provided us with a list for the items that had been returned 
to Very in 2019 and where a refund hadnt been received. Having taken a fresh look 
at the 2019 list of items along with their reference numbers and the statements 
provided, Ive been able to see where adjustments have been made to Mr Hs 
account between June and December 2019 for all but two of the items listed by Miss 
H, both were purchased on 5 November 2019:
PH37T kings will dream miller jog pan light greymarl Xs £40; and 
P67QW eleven degrees text joggers black Xs £45 
There was another item, reference PCWEP, on the list provided by Miss H described 
by her as a RI coat. Ive not found this reference at all on the account statements. I 
was however able to find a similar reference PEWEP described on the statements as 
a RI quilted sleeve pad for £78 and purchased on 8 October 2019. This item was 
returned and refunded to the account on 11 December 2019. 
I acknowledge that Miss H explained during a phone call with our investigator that 
due to the numbers of returns she found it difficult to recall all the reference numbers. 
So I think its likely she could have been referring to item PEWEP.
Having considered all the information provided, and the frequency of returned items 
on Mr Hs account I think its entirely possible that Very could have missed those two 
items while processing the returns received. It seems to me that this is more likely 
than Mr H not having returned them. In the circumstances I will be asking Very to 
refund the two items PH37T (item £40) and P67QW (item £45) to Mr Hs account 
along with any interest that has been incurred.
Bedside cabinets
In October 2017 Mr H purchased two bedside cabinets. Mr H explained that the 
cabinets arrived in the wrong colour. Since then hes been trying to arrange for their 
collection and refund. Mr H advised that hes taken six days off work to try to arrange 
the collection, but each time something has gone wrong including the couriers 
arriving at his daughters house to collect the items or arriving at his address to 
collect other items for return but not the bedside cabinets. Mr H complained to Very 
about this issue, and I can see that they responded in their final response letter dated 
31 May 2018 advising that he should contact their track and trace team to resolve the 
issue.
A year later as the problem still hadnt been resolved Very addressed the complaint 
again in their final response letter dated 21 May 2019. In this letter they advised that 
the details of the items had been passed on to their customer excellence member to 
carry out an investigation and that theyd be in contact to resolve it. 
Following further contact from us in relation to this issue Very has recently confirmed 
that theyve arranged for Mr Hs account to be credited with £108, which is the 
amount for the two items.
I think its right that Very have addressed this and offered to credit the items, however 
I acknowledge that this whole situation has been ongoing for some time and would 
have caused some degree of unreasonable inconvenience to Mr H. Its likely that the 
use of his garage would have been compromised to some degree, and should he 
choose to remove or dispose of the items this too may cause some additional and 
unwanted inconvenience. I think it would be fair for Mr H to be compensated for this.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
To settle the complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) have already 
made an offer to pay an additional £50 compensation, in addition to the £50 already 
paid as compensation for the poor customer service Mr H received in relation to the 
orders for the Alienware monitors. 
Theyve also offered to refund Mr Hs account with £108 for the bedside cabinets that 
hadnt been collected. 
However, in addition to the above, I also intend to instruct Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr H £100 in recognition of the inconvenience he experienced as a result 
of the bedside cabinets not being collected when they should have been
Refund £27.99 as the value of the rose gold frying set and any incurred 
interest
Refund to Mr Hs account £85 which is the total value of the two items 
P67QW and PH37T along with any incurred interest
Refund any interest that has been incurred on the account for the bedside 
cabinets.
I invited further comments from both parties, before I would reconsider the complaint and 
issue my final decision. 
responses to my provisional findings
Mr H responded to the provisional decision. In his response he explained that had he known 
his account was to be closed hed have stopped his daughter using it. He also vouched for 
the validity of the returns made by his daughter.
Very also responded to the provisional decision. In their response they focused on the two 
items which they say hadnt been received by them. Very set out their returns process and 
explained that had any items not been matched to a consumer, they would be applied to a 
list. And Very have said that none of the items in relation to Mr Hs complaint had been 
present on that list.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I welcome the responses received by both parties to my provisional decision. 
The decision to close Mr Hs account is being considered under a separate complaint, so I 
wont be addressing that here.
In my provisional findings I considered the plausibility of the items Mr H says has been 
returned. Verys returns process doesnt persuade me that its likely the two items below 
werent returned to them:
PH37T kings will dream miller jog pan light greymarl Xs £40; and 
P67QW eleven degrees text joggers black Xs £45 The frequency of returned items on Mr Hs account, the consistency and specificity of what 
Mr H has explained and provided around the items he returned, persuades me that its more 
likely than not that the two items in question were returned to Very as explained by Mr H.  In 
the circumstances my decision remains unchanged in relation to these items and Ill be 
requiring Very to refund the two items PH37T (item £40) and P67QW (item £45) to Mr Hs 
account along with any interest that has been incurred. 
Considering the responses received by both parties I still consider the outcome I proposed in 
my provisional findings to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint, given the 
particular circumstances at play. Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to 
change these. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same, for the reasons as set out in the attached 
provisional decision.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
To settle the complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) have already made an 
offer to pay an additional £50 compensation, in addition to the £50 already paid as 
compensation for the poor customer service Mr H received in relation to the orders for the 
Alienware monitors. 
Theyve also offered to refund Mr Hs account £108 for the bedside cabinets that hadnt been 
collected. 
However, in addition to the above, I instruct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr H £100 in recognition of the inconvenience he experienced as a result of the 
bedside cabinets not being collected when they should have been
Refund £27.99 as the value of the rose gold frying set and any incurred interest
Refund to Mr Hs account £85 which is the total value of the two items P67QW and 
PH37T along with any incurred interest
Refund any interest that has been incurred on the account for the bedside cabinets.
Very should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
 
If Very considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman