DRN-4162852
The complaint
Miss A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have unfairly declined her travel 
insurance claim.
All reference to IPA also includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2021, Miss A took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. This policy 
was underwritten by IPA. 
While on a holiday abroad to a country Ill call S, a new variant of Covid-19 was found to be 
in existence there. As a result, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) changed its advice to say that all but essential travel to S should be avoided. It 
also placed restrictions on those who were returning to the UK from S, stating that they 
needed to go into mandatory quarantine for 10 days on arrival. 
Worried that she may not be able to leave S at the end of her trip, Miss A decided to look for 
flights to leave earlier than planned. She initially bought a flight to another country, but this 
was cancelled. Miss A then booked flights to Europe, where she stayed for 10 days before 
returning to the UK, so she could avoid the required quarantine. She made a claim to IPA for 
the costs of the flights and her unused accommodation in S.
IPA declined her claim. It said that the policy excluded claims for regional quarantine and 
that Miss A had travelled to another country to avoid that quarantine. Unhappy with that 
answer, Miss A complained to IPA and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that there 
wasnt any section under the policy that provided cover for her situation. She said that there 
wasnt a requirement for British citizens to return home from S and so she didnt think it 
would be fair to ask IPA to consider the claim. 
Miss A disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said that the policy does include 
changes to the FCDO advice as a valid reason to claim, so she didnt think IPA had fairly 
declined the claim. She also said that it would be expected for flight cancellations to be 
covered by a travel policy and so she didnt think the policy wording was clear. As no 
agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss A. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Miss As complaint to this service initially related to the rejection of her claim and also for 
delays she encountered when dealing with this matter. IPA offered to make a payment of 
£150 in recognition of the delays, which Miss A has accepted. As this part of the complaint is 
no longer under dispute, I wont be considering this within this decision.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss As complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Miss As claim relates to additional flights expenses she incurred and unused 
accommodation costs when she left S early, therefore curtailing her holiday, as a result of a 
change in the FCDO advice. IPA has said there is no cover for her claim.
The policy does provide cover for the curtailment of a trip, under Section A - Cancellation or 
curtailment charges.  Within this section it states the following:
Curtailment
We will pay you up to £1,500 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion 
only of any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed 
before completion as a result of any of the following events:

5. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO) or other regulatory authority in the country you are in recommending 
evacuation from the country or specific area you have travelled to providing the 
advice came into force after you left your home area to commence the trip.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
The policy does provide cover for the curtailment of a trip, however, it will only cover claims 
which have occurred as a result of one of five listed reasons. The only listed reason that is 
applicable to Miss As claim refers to the FCDO recommending evacuation from the country 
that the policyholder has travelled to. In Miss As particular circumstances, the FCDO didnt 
recommend evacuation from S and so Miss A was not required to curtail her trip on that 
basis.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there are any other sections 
which would consider Miss As claim, but the circumstances she found herself in dont 
appear to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Miss As claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor 
are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask IPA to accept this 
claim. Im therefore not persuaded that IPA needs to do anything more.
Miss A has said that it would be expected that the policy would provide cover for cancelled 
flights. And she doesnt think the policy is clear enough  and therefore she should have her 
claim met. Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the relevant premium). The events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
The policy does provide cover for cancellation, however, this only applies if you have to 
cancel before leaving the UK. Once a trip has started then it would only be the curtailment 
section that would apply. And Im satisfied that IPA has clearly set out the reasons it will 
accept cover for curtailment in the policy terms provided to Miss A. So, this point doesnt 
make a difference to my outcome.
Im aware that Miss A has referred to claims made by other people in the same situation 
which she says have been paid. She therefore thinks her claim should also be met. Whilst I 
appreciate her comments, complaints are considered on their own individual merits, based 
on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made to this service relates to 
rejection of her claim under the policy she held with IPA. Based on the information and 
evidence supplied in support of this complaint, I dont think IPA has unfairly declined the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman