DRN-2951672
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited are responsible for it Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim under her motor insurance after a storm damaged her car in February 
2020. Hiscox offered to recover the car to protect it from the elements and to start the repair 
of her car. But Mrs A wanted to use her own specialised repairer and arranged the repair 
herself. Her chosen repairer replaced the rear windscreen that had been cracked in her soft 
top convertible car and returned the car to her. 
In December 2020 Mrs A had a further problem with her rear windscreen which cracked 
again. Mrs A felt that the original repairer hadnt repaired her car properly as it should have 
repaired the roof as well as the cracked rear screen in February 2020.
Hiscox looked into this for Mrs A but concluded that there was insufficient evidence that the 
roof was damaged and needed repair originally. It had the car inspected but the conclusion 
was that the roof had lost some of its shape and elasticity due to its age as opposed to being 
caused by the original storm damage. But Mrs A remained unhappy, so she complained to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but eventually didnt uphold her complaint. She 
didnt think that Hiscox had done anything wrong. This was because Mrs As own chosen 
repairer had undertaken the original repairs, as opposed to Hiscox own repairer, and so was 
responsible for the repair. And there was insufficient evidence that the roof was damaged by 
the storm originally.
As Mrs A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment as she feels her car wasnt repaired properly in the first instance, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Mrs As frustration as she feels that her car wasnt repaired properly when 
she claimed originally. However, there isnt sufficient evidence to support her position. When 
she reported the damage to Hiscox in February 2020 there was mention of possible damage 
to the roof, but the main focus was the cracked rear windscreen. 
But her chosen specialist repairer didnt identify any damage to the roof at that point in time 
and repaired the glass. And Mrs A didnt report any further difficulties with the roof until 
December 2020. I know that she hadnt used her car much because of her personal 
circumstances. But I would have expected any problems with the car to be noticed around 
the time of the original repair, as opposed to over nine months later. 
Plus, Hiscox appointed an engineer to look at the roof and they concluded that any problems 
were down to general wear and tear and the age of the roof. Given the car was nearly 20 
years old at this point in time I dont think the engineers comments seem unreasonable. 
The engineer said that the roof lining on this vehicle has lost its tautness; its shape, it also 
sags in numerous areas due to its age. They also said that In our opinion the damage 
sustained to this roof lining is not due to poor workmanship. And that the rear screen being 
damaged is also not due to the repairs carried out by the repairer. This is due to there being 
an impact to the rear screen at some point and has caused the screen to crack. 
I know Mrs A also provided her own report in support of her position. But her report 
confirmed that the roof was in poor condition and it didnt confirm an exact cause so there 
wasnt really sufficient evidence to support that the first repair wasnt to a reasonable 
standard. And Mrs A said herself that the roof wasnt too healthy beforehand when she 
first reported the claim which suggests wear and tear was already starting to be a problem 
before the first claim.
Given all of this I dont think Hiscox has acted unreasonably. It allowed Mrs A to use her own 
specialised repairer at her request. And although it could have said again that her policy only 
guaranteed repairs that were undertaken by its own repairers I think the information was 
outlined clearly in the policy documentation. I cant expect Hiscox to guarantee work outside 
of its own repairing network. And having listened to the first notice of loss call it was clear 
that Mrs A wanted the car repaired by her chosen garage even though Hiscox had offered to 
collect it within a few hours of reporting the claim.
So, despite my natural sympathy for Mrs A I dont think Hiscox has done anything wrong and 
so Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman