DRN-3966755
The complaint
This complaints about a Halifax-branded interest-only mortgage that Mrs B holds with 
Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). Ms R believes the balance is too high.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs B and BOS. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The mortgage started in 2005, and was increased with various further advance up to 2008. 
The mortgage term expired in 2015, and in 2016 Mrs B complained that the balance was too 
high and this was holding up her attempts to sell the property and repay the debt. A fellow 
ombudsman dealt with that complaint in 2016, but didnt uphold it. He said that if Mrs B 
obtained an independent audit that revealed errors to her detriment, BOS should consider 
paying the cost of the audit if it agreed with the conclusions therein. 
Mrs R is again trying to sell her home, but complains that BOS failed to do what the 
ombudsman ordered in 2016. Our investigator wasnt persuaded BOS had treated Mrs B 
unfairly, so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs B has asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, Mrs B framed the current complaint as being that BOS had been presented with an 
independent audit, but had then ignored its findings. As our investigator delved deeper, it 
became apparent that no audit has actually been submitted. Rather, Mrs B thought BOS had 
failed to provide enough historical accounting information to enable the audit to proceed. 
Thats the essence of the complaint Im being asked to decide here.
The amount of information lenders are required to give their customers about their accounts 
is set by the FCA, and lenders meet the FCAs requirements by way of the annual 
statement. The statement provides details of every transaction recorded in the period it 
covers, along with details of the interest rate(s) charged during the period. Meanwhile the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage specify the methodology for charging interest; for 
example, whether it is calculated on daily intervals or longer.
It seems to me that this information should be everything a suitably-qualified auditor should 
have needed in order to carry out a reconciliation of the type Mrs B was seeking. Its also all 
information that BOS had already provided to Mrs B historically. So, in reality, what Mrs B 
was expecting BOS to do was provide the information again. Thats not as straightforward a 
task as it might appear to at first glance. 
Much of the information from the early years of the mortgage was held on an old computer 
platform that was de-commissioned around ten years ago, and the data has had to be 
retrieved from archive and re-formatted. Nonetheless, with the help of our investigator, Mrs B 
is now in possession of all of the information I consider the FCA would expect BOS to 
provide. Its now up to Mrs B whether she still wishes to use the information to obtain an 
audit. 
What I would do, however, is remind her that her mortgage term expired a long time ago, 
and BOS has been very patient in waiting for her to repay her debt. I appreciate Mrs B thinks 
the balance is too high, but she isnt prevented from repaying the mortgage before she gets 
a resolution to the dispute. She can pay the mortgage off whilst still reserving the right to 
pursue her audit and seek recovery of any overpayment it might reveal (if that were the 
outcome of an audit). Equally, Mrs B needs to understand that BOS doesnt need to wait for 
the outcome of an audit before seeking recovery of a substantially overdue debt.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Mrs B. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that BOS has treated Mrs B unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman