DRN-1728293
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly recorded several credit cards in his name. 
As a result, his application to re-mortgage his home was delayed and he lost out financially.
What happened
Mr P has explained that in August 2019 he and wife began the process of re-mortgaging 
their home  their then mortgage deal coming to an end. He expected the process to be 
straightforward.
In October 2019, however, his mortgage broker contacted him to say that the underwriter 
had identified four credit cards in Mr Ps name, with balances of nearly £11,000 in total. 
Mr Ps broker suggested that Mr P obtain a copy of his credit file from the credit reference 
agency which the underwriter had used and expressed the hope that nobody had taken out 
credit in his name. Once Mr P had the information from the credit reference agency, they 
could, she said  take it from there. In fact, Mr P had only two credit cards, one with HSBC 
and one with another bank, with a total debt at that time of less than £1,500. There were 
three HSBC cards recorded in error against his name; they had been closed some time 
previously.
Mr P contacted HSBC and it wrote to him, confirming that there was only one open credit 
card in his name and explaining that any other cards had been closed with zero balances. It 
said it had taken the necessary steps to correct the incorrect entries with the credit reference 
agencies.  
A few days later Mr P noticed that the necessary corrections hadnt been made and made a 
complaint. Around two weeks later, two entries had been corrected, but it was another two 
weeks  that is, around a month after the issue first came to light  that all the necessary 
corrections were made. The bank acknowledged that it had made an error and offered Mr P 
£500 by way of compensation.  
Mr P didnt consider that the banks offer was sufficient. He said that the banks error 
resulted in a delay of four months in completing the re-mortgage, which in turn meant his 
repayments were some £1,600 more than should have been the case. He also said that he 
was unable to work because of the stress; as hes self-employed, he thinks that HSBC 
should cover his lost earnings.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Overall, however, he thought that HSBCs offer of £500 was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has acknowledged that it made an error here, and that Mr Ps historic credit cards 
shouldnt have been recorded with the credit reference agency. The issue is what the bank 
should do to put things right, having arranged for the records to be corrected. 
I havent discussed in detail the correspondence and other exchanges which Mr P had in 
trying to resolve things with HSBC. I have however considered all hes said and accept that 
his account of telephone calls, for example, is broadly accurate.   
Mr P says that the mortgage underwriter, on finding out about the entries with the credit 
reference agency, suspected he had undeclared debt. In my view, however, the brokers 
email drawing Mr Ps attention to the potential problem was primarily an attempt to find out 
what had happened. HSBC explained promptly in writing that it had made an error and that 
all the credit cards bar one had been closed. Mr P says that was untrue, because the credit 
reference agencys report said something different. I dont agree with his interpretation, 
however: the letter set out the correct position and explained why the credit reference 
agencys information was wrong. It addressed the concerns which the broker had raised. 
That letter also said that HSBC had taken the necessary steps to correct the information. It 
couldnt however correct the information held by the credit reference agency. It could only 
contact the agency and explain the error; it was then for the agency to amend its records. 
Nor is it the case, as Mr P has suggested, that HSBC refused to remove information. On the 
contrary, it acknowledged from the outset that it had made an error and agreed to the 
removal of the incorrect information. That took longer for one account than the other two, but 
at no point did the bank refuse to deal with the problem. 
Mr P says that the re-mortgage application was delayed because of HSBCs actions. It did 
however explain very quickly that it had made an error. If the underwriter didnt accept that 
explanation or check the position, I dont believe I can fairly hold HSBC responsible. 
Mr P has also provided evidence that he stopped working for several weeks, having been 
diagnosed with stress and anxiety. The diagnosis doesnt however make a direct link with 
the events that gave rise to this complaint. Again, I dont believe I can fairly require HSBC to 
cover any loss of earnings. 
I accept of course that HSBC was at fault here, but Im not persuaded that its errors caused 
any direct financial loss to Mr P. He will no doubt have been put to significant inconvenience 
and suffered stress as a result, but I agree with the investigator that HSBCs offer of £500 is 
reasonable in the circumstances. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether, on reflection, he 
wishes to accept it.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr 
Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
P to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman