DRN-3373900
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her pet insurance policy with Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Mrs A made a claim in 2019 for the cost of special food which has been prescribed for her 
dog, as he has a renal condition. RSA agreed to make a one-off payment for some of the 
food (for £188.90) as a gesture of goodwill but refused to meet any further claims, as it says 
the policy terms clearly exclude cover for food.
 
Mrs A is very unhappy about this. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that RSA was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mrs A does not accept the Investigators assessment and has made a number of points, in 
her initial complaint and in response to the Investigator, which I have summarised below:
the policy is out-of-date and hasnt kept up with advances in medicine. 
The Investigator has incorrectly said her complaint is about a claim but this is not 
correct, it is about her statutory rights, which have not been considered. 
The food is essential, as her dog has renal failure and the food assists his renal 
function, it should therefore be treated as a medicine and not food.
RSA accepted the vets reports and claim for diagnostics but should also be meeting 
this need. But unqualified claims-handlers have determined it be refused. 
This has been extremely stressful and she has been caused financial hardship as a 
result.  
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pet policies such as the one Mrs A has are intended to cover illnesses and injuries and this 
cover will in turn be subject to various terms and conditions. Mrs As policy says:  
For all cover types we cant help you with the following: We dont pay for food (even
when prescribed by a vet).
Mrs A says it is out-of-date, given advances in medicine and treatments and her statutory 
rights havent been considered. Mrs A makes reference to various consumer legislation, in 
particular the requirement that services be fit for purpose. The implication being that this 
policy is not fit for purpose. I do not agree.
 
It is up to insurers to decide what cover they want to provide in exchange for the premium 
charged. The policy, like other pet insurance policies, is intended to cover various injuries 
and illnesses but RSA is entitled to decide that it does not want to cover the cost of special 
diets. I do not consider here is anything unusual or unfair about this exclusion. It is not an 
uncommon exclusion and is set out clearly and unambiguously. 
Mrs A thinks this is very unfair but Im afraid I see no reason why RSA should be required to 
disregard this policy term. 
Mrs A also says the claim is in effect for the cost of medicinal treatment, as the special food 
is essential for her dogs health. There is no dispute that the special diet is necessary to  
manage Mrs As dogs condition and it is prescribed by the vet. However, I am not 
persuaded that this means it should be deemed to be a medicine and not fall within the 
exclusion. The prescription is for special food and as such fall clearly within this exclusion. 
 
RSA agreed to meet some of the costs of the food, which was a reasonable gesture, but this 
does not mean it is obliged to continue to pay further claims. And meeting the cost of some 
diagnostic tests does not mean it is obliged to meet the cost of everything arising from the 
same illness. 
For the reasons given, I do not consider RSA has acted unreasonably in refusing this claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman