DRN-2772610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc applied an unfair early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R took out a fixed rate mortgage with Bank of Scotland. The mortgage 
product had an ERC that applied if the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2020.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs R sold their house and repaid their mortgage. They said they 
had no choice as they had a large and unexpected bill to pay  and the only way they could 
raise the amount they needed was by selling their house.
When they repaid their mortgage, Bank of Scotland applied an ERC of almost £12,000. Mr 
and Mrs R consider this was unfair. They said that they only had around three and a half 
months left on the fixed rate  and the total payments would be around £5,600. Mr and Mrs 
R say they dont believe Bank of Scotland has incurred any more costs than if the tie-in 
period had run its course.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R responded to make a number of points, including:
There were only a few payments left on the fixed rate, so Bank of Scotland would not 
have received more than £5,600 if they had not redeemed early.
It was nonsense to say that bank of Scotland incurred bigger costs because the 
mortgage was repaid a few months early. In fact, it would still have received interest on 
the money being repaid, which it could re-lend.
It was unfair that Bank of Scotland could hide behind the information it gave us by saying 
it was commercially sensitive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs R accepted 
when they took out the mortgage. For the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied that the ERC 
was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. And the ERC was applied in line 
with the terms that Mr and Mrs R agreed to. As the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 
2020, Bank of Scotland was entitled to apply an ERC.
But I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
MCOB says that lenders can impose an ERC as long as it can be expressed as a cash value 
and is a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the customer repaying the 
amount due under the regulated mortgage contract before the contract has terminated. It 
goes on to explain that lenders dont have to calculate the ERC for every mortgage 
individually. They can calculate the ERC across a range of mortgages of the same type.
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early.
Bank of Scotland has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of the 
mortgage being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in confidence 
if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Bank of Scotland has provided 
is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence. I understand 
Mr and Mrs Rs point that this is unfair  but I can assure them that I have considered 
carefully the information it has provided.
The information from Bank of Scotland shows that it takes into account a number of factors 
when estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. That includes the cost of 
unwinding financial instruments it uses to protect its position should interest rates change, 
the cost of funding the mortgage, unrecovered set up costs and the lost profit. For each of 
those elements it has provided a breakdown of the figures it used and an explanation for the 
calculations and estimates it has made. I am satisfied that it was a reasonable way for it to 
estimate what its costs might be if the mortgage was repaid early.
I know Mr and Mrs R consider that Bank of Scotlands loss is limited to the remaining 
payments on the mortgage. But Im satisfied its actual costs werent necessarily limited to 
that. In any case, that isnt relevant here  nor is the actual cost to Bank of Scotland of this 
individual mortgage being repaid. MCOB only requires Bank of Scotland to make a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage being repaid early would be across 
a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what Bank of Scotland has done. And based 
on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it to charge an ERC of 
2%.
I note what Mr and Mrs R have told us about their personal circumstances and the need to 
sell their home. But I dont consider that is a reason why it would be unfair for Bank of 
Scotland not to apply the ERC.
Overall, I consider it was fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland to apply the ERC in line 
with the agreement that Mr and Mrs R entered into.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman