DRN-3804620
The complaint
Mr O complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC during a phone 
call he had with one of their representatives. Hes unhappy with the behaviour of their 
representative and their refusal to escalate his call to a manager.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr O had an ongoing complaint with Barclays relating to the management of this 
investment portfolio.
He said he spoke to one of their representatives three times on 11 December 2019 
and during the calls he was verbally abused and told to take his business elsewhere.
He complained to Barclays about the service hed received but they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
He brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She acknowledged Mr Os frustration but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In her opinion the representative hadnt provided poor service or 
treated Mr O unfairly.
Mr O didnt accept her findings and as theres been no agreement the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld. From what Ive seen Mr O 
called Barclays on 11 December 2019 to discuss his ongoing complaint about his portfolio. 
He wanted to speak to a senior director as he wasnt happy with the final response letter 
(FRL) hed received from Barclays.
The representative attempted to put Mr O through to the complaints department but there 
wasnt anyone available at the time. The representative said that he wouldnt be able to 
discuss the merits of the complaint given that a FRL had been issued which set out Barclays 
position. He reminded Mr O that he had the option to refer the complaint to this service if he 
was unhappy with the outcome.
Its clear that Mr O wanted to discuss the merits of the complaint, but the representative 
maintained that he wasnt able to do this as a FRL had been issued. He reiterated that Mr O 
could escalate his concerns to this service and also clarified that if Mr O had any new 
complaint points, then they could be referred to the complaint handler hed been dealing 
with. Mr O said that he wouldnt hang up until hed spoken to a senior member of staff, the 
representative explained that wasnt possible and that hed have to terminate the call as he 
was unable to give Mr O what he wanted. Mr O then called back and spoke to the 
representative on another two occasions, both times the calls were terminated.
I can certainly understand Mr Os frustration, he was unhappy with the outcome of his 
complaint and wanted to discuss it further. But from what Ive seen, Barclays did what they 
were required to do - they investigated his concerns and issued their final response giving 
referral rights to this service if Mr O was unhappy with the outcome. So, there was no 
obligation for them to continue to discuss the matter with Mr O.
The representative made this clear to Mr O and explained why he wouldnt escalate the call 
to someone more senior. I also think that the representative remained polite and 
professional throughout the calls with Mr O. He warned Mr O repeatedly that he would 
terminate the call as he wouldnt discuss the merits of the previous complaint, but Mr O 
continued to push for a discussion. Having considered everything, I dont think that under the 
circumstances the representatives behaviour was unreasonable. It follows that I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Barclays to do anything else to resolve the 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman