DRN-1874186
The complaint
Miss M complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
FirstRand Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) wasnt fit for purpose. Also, that 
the agreement was mis sold to her as it wasnt affordable. She would like to reject the car, 
have a refund of all the payments she has made and compensation of £200 to cover her 
costs.
What happened
Miss M says she decided she wanted a new car and on 21 March 2019 tests drove one. She 
said Motonovo then put in a finance application without her knowledge. She says she was 
surprised as she didnt work  she was a full time carer for her son. She says she didnt 
realise she had taken out Hire Purchase Agreement. And when documents were later sent 
to her in an information pack the front page of the contract was missing.
She added that there were various issues with the car  a cracked windscreen, damaged 
types and the car needed cleaning, but these werent addressed despite the car being kept 
in the garage after she took out the agreement and later returned for the work to be done. 
She said this whole matter had considerably increased her anxiety. And she had also asked 
Motonovo to remove any data about herself from its systems, but it had refused to do so.
A third party summarized the key points of Miss Ms complaint as being that as a disabled 
person herself with no income other than benefits Miss M shouldnt have been given the 
loan. That the credit application was put through without Miss Ms knowledge and relevant 
credit checks were not carried out  had these checks been carried out MotoNovo would 
have realized that the amount of credit was unsuitable.
In addition, the third party said Miss M should be able to reject the car as she raised issues 
within 30 days and the business had failed to resolve the problems with the car by two 
attempts at repair.
MotoNovo said that Miss M confirmed she received a copy of the contract including its terms 
and conditions and that at no point did Miss M make the business aware she had  health 
problems  It acknowledged correspondence from a family member raising this but said 
without medical evidence it couldnt take this into account when dealing with Miss Ms 
complaint.
It said in terms of affordability Miss M stated she was self-employed, had been so over six 
months and paid National Insurance Contributions 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found no evidence that Miss M had raised 
any issues with her capacity to take out the agreement, so she didnt feel MotoNovo were 
responsible for issues that Miss M hadnt raised.
In terms of affordability our investigator found MotoNovo met its own internal requirements 
for lending to Miss M. She found Miss M had told MotoNovo that she was self-employed that 
she had been in permanent employment in the last six months and paid NI contributions. 
Also, that Miss M had a cancellation period that she could have taken advantage of if she 
didnt feel the loan was affordable but hadnt done so.
She said as she hadnt upheld Miss Ms complaint, she couldnt ask MotoNovo to remove 
any personal information on its systems.
MotoNovo accepted this view but Miss M didnt.  She made several points in response to our 
investigators. These included issues around being denied her right to return the car, the car 
being mis sold as newly new when it wasnt, signing and not being given appropriate 
documentation on the contract, the agreement was unaffordable, correct checks werent 
carried , being put under pressure to take out the agreement and finally that she was also 
mis sold Personal Payment Insurance (PPI)
Our investigator considered these points. She explained she hadnt investigated if the car 
was fit for purpose or the sale of PPI as she said she had previously advised Miss M to put 
in separate complaints about these issues.
In response to Miss M comments around the affordability of the contract and checks carried 
out. she highlighted information Miss M provided on taking out the contract which showed 
her occupation as Carer and that she had been in employment in this capacity for nearly 
three years at the point she took out the Hire Purchase Agreement. She added that in a 
phone call in April 2019 to the business Miss M confirmed she was self employed and 
paying National Insurance contributions. She felt based on this it was reasonable for 
MotoNovo to assume that Miss M was employed.
Miss M didnt accept this further view and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M feels strongly about her complaint and I do understand that. I appreciate she has told 
us she didnt agree to her investigation being separated out into different complaints when 
she supplied full information on all aspects of her complaint when she first came to us.
As Miss M has put in a service complaint, I dont think its appropriate for me to comment on 
that here. In this decision I can only consider Miss Ms complaint around the sale of the 
contract and affordability. It wouldnt be fair for me to consider issues with the car itself or the 
sale of PPI as these havent yet been fully investigated so MotoNovo hasnt had a chance to 
respond to these issues. 
I do appreciate this must be very frustrating for Miss M. I understand these are now being 
dealt with under separate complaints.
In terms of the contract Miss M took out she has given us part of a document w which she 
says shows that information what personal and financial information MotoNovo seeks and 
what it does with this information. I can appreciate looking at this Miss M feels that 
MotoNovo didnt do the searches she expected it to do. She has told us her employment 
details and income werent checked nor did it seek credit file information.
We have asked MotoNovo for the full document Miss M referred to. Reading that document, 
I think it comprehensively covers every piece of information that MotoNovo might receive. It 
says it will keep information a consumer gives it or information it receives from its brokers this can include for example information on employment such as salary, employer, and time 
employed. 
However, I am not persuaded from what I have seen that it commits MotoNovo to making 
exhaustive searches of all the information it lists. I dont think it would be practicable to do 
so.
The document refers to using automated decision-making systems to assess applications, 
the system generates a final score based on for example credit and internal demographic 
data to assess financial circumstances and ability to repay the finance. As I understand it 
Miss Ms application was considered and accepted on this basis.
We asked MotoNovo if it asked for any supporting information for Miss Ms application but 
from what it sent us, I dont believe it did. In Miss Ms case it seems that MotoNovo used it 
automated decision making system  based its decision on the credit application on 
information it received from Miss M via the salesman. 
I am surprised that MotoNovo didnt at least check Miss Ms income to support her 
application. However, its automated process does seem to involve some degree of credit 
check to assess financial circumstances. And there is of course an obligation on the 
consumer to give correct information. 
Miss M told us she offered bank statements to the salesman, but he declined to look at 
these, and she explained she didnt work and was a home carer for her son.
Its always hard to assess information when there is no evidence of a conversation. 
However, I have listened to a phone call between Miss M about insurance on the car. In this 
call Miss M confirms she is employed, has been for more than six months, is paying National 
Insurance contributions and has savings put aside.
As the information she gave about employment in this phone call accords with the data 
gathered for her finance application I think its likely that this is the information she gave the 
salesman. And if so, this has been correctly recorded on MotoNovos systems.
I am not persuaded that had she told the salesman she had no income and offered bank 
statements to confirm this that the finance agreement would have gone ahead. 
I also have no evidence to show that Miss M raised any disability issue with the salesman 
when she took out the agreement. I appreciate that Miss M might not have thought to raise 
this. But MotoNovo has confirmed that there didnt seem to be any issues with Miss Ms 
understanding when she took out the agreement.
I can see from MotoNovos notes that a relative did raise Miss Ms health situation later. 
MotoNovo asked for some medical evidence to support this. I appreciate that was perhaps a 
sensitive thing to do but I dont feel it was an unreasonable request. It didnt seem to me 
from the information I saw that this evidence was ever given.
I also appreciate Miss M might not have fully understood the information on the finance 
agreement. But as she took possession of the car, she must have realized she had taken out 
some sort of agreement to finance it. And if she wasnt sure what she had agreed to I am not 
sure why she didnt ask someone to check the paperwork for her. The finance agreement 
does have a cancellation clause that she could have used but didnt do so
In terms of affordability of the loan Miss M did give us a letter showing her benefits were 
being stopped. From that letter it seemed she hadnt provided some information that she 
needed to continue to receive the benefits. I dont know if that was resolved and if the benefits were reinstated. We do expect We do expect businesses to respond 
sympathetically when consumers are in financial difficulties. So, if Miss M can no longer 
afford the loan, she should discuss this with MotoNovo 
However, being in receipt of benefits doesnt automatically mean someone cant afford a 
loan when it is first taken out. So, we have asked Miss M for evidence of her financial 
situation at the time she took out the loan for example bank statements to confirm income 
and expenditure. 
Unfortunately, Miss M hasnt provided any financial information for me to consider. She has 
given us a copy of her original complaint which doesnt contain specific financial information. 
It relates more to her issues with the car itself which dont fall under this complaint.
I have no evidence to show that Miss M couldnt afford the car at the time she took out the 
agreement. She seems to have maintained payments although she has told us she has had 
family support to do so but again I have no evidence of this.
As I have no evidence to show that MotoNovo were at fault in allowing Miss M to take out a 
Hire Purchase Agreement I cant reasonably expect it to take back the car, refund payments 
made and pay compensation as Miss M would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman