DRN-1577654
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Swinton Group Limited gave her incorrect information when making an 
insurance claim. She says she has incurred costs as a result.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs T contacted Swinton when she discovered cracks in her property, along with an 
issue with her drains. She said Swinton told her to start preliminary investigations to find out 
what the cause of the problems could be and that the costs would be reimbursed.
Mrs T subsequently made a claim to her insurer and was told these costs wouldnt be 
covered. Mrs T therefore complained to Swinton.
Swinton said Mrs T had already started investigative work before her first contact and that 
whenever she did call, she was told to speak to her insurer. Swinton said it never advised 
Mrs T to instigate works.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said the call records and notes from the 
agents at the time show that Mrs T had already started the investigation into the problem 
before calling Swinton in August 2018. And that the next recorded contact was in October 
2018, where Swinton had noted she had incurred over £2000 worth of costs. So, our 
investigator didnt find that Swinton had done anything wrong.
Mrs T disagrees with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T says Swinton told her that her costs would be covered. As an insurance broker, 
Swinton does not have the authority to approve claim costs. What I need to decide is 
whether Swinton did give Mrs T incorrect advice or information which led to her incurring 
these expenses. Ive reviewed the calls notes of the conversations held between Swinton 
and Mrs T. And Ive also listened to the call recordings. 
The first contact Mrs T made with Swinton was in August 2018. In this call she says she has 
already had a structural survey carried out and wanted to know if this was something that 
her insurance would cover if she provided the report. The agent explained that as it related 
to a claim, Mrs T would need to refer this to the insurer. Mrs T takes down the phone number 
for the insurer and says she will call them. Im therefore satisfied Swinton didnt provide 
incorrect information in this call.
It wasnt until several months later that Mrs T called Swinton again  in October 2018  
asking if she was covered for the costs she had already incurred. A number of calls were 
made by Mrs T to Swinton and in each conversation, she was advised that she would need 
to check with the insurer. She was either given the telephone number for the insurance 
company or transferred through directly. There isnt any mention in these calls that the costs 
would be reimbursed. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that Swinton didnt inform Mrs T that it 
would pay for the investigations or that these costs would be reimbursed by the policy. On 
each occasion she was told that the insurer would need to decide. 
It does seem that there was some confusion over which insurer she should be making her 
claim against and Mrs T has said that it wasnt always clear who she was contacting or 
speaking to about the issue. I can appreciate that this must have been quite frustrating for 
Mrs T and so I can understand her strength of feeling on this matter. But this complaint is 
against Swinton and so I can only look at what it said to her about these costs. And after 
considering the evidence that has been provided, I cant agree that Swinton has acted 
inappropriately when speaking to Mrs T about her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman