DRN-4250127
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr P complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refuses to refund 
their losses after they fell victim to a scam.
The complaint involves payments from a joint account, but Mr P made the payments related 
to the scam, so Ill mainly refer to Mr P throughout this decision. Mrs G and Mr P also have a 
representative helping them with the complaint. 
What happened
Mr P says he was recommended the scam investment company (which Ill call S) by a friend 
hed known for over 10 years. He told Mr P hed personally invested with S and received a 
good return on his investment. A manager (who Mr P believed to be working for S) got in 
touch with Mr P and told him she could invest for him. 
Mr P made payments from his Nationwide account into an account in his own name with a 
crypto exchange. The money then went on from there to S to trade on his behalf. 
Mr P says he initially sent a payment to S of £303.53 on 16 February 2021. But on reviewing 
his statements, it seems this was the only payment not made to the crypto exchange. This 
appears to have been a debit card payment to Digital Marketing . He did then make 
several payments after this to the crypto exchange ranging from £10 to £1,500. On 30 June 
2021 Mr P was able to withdraw £500, which he immediately reinvested. But this further 
convinced Mr P that he was dealing with a legitimate company. The final payment Mr P 
made was for £2,500 on 20 August 2021  this was the largest payment Mr P made. 
In October 2021, Mr P requested to withdraw his entire account balance of around £9,000 
from S. After being given some excuses by the scammers, Mr P then found that the website 
no longer existed and contact from the manager had stopped. 
Nationwide says Mr P reported the matter to Nationwide in March 2022. Nationwide tried to 
retrieve any money still held with the crypto exchange, but nothing remained. Nationwide 
explained that it was not liable for the losses Mr P had suffered. Mr P subsequently raised a 
complaint. Nationwide issued its final response explaining that while it was very sorry for 
what had happened to Mr P, it had done nothing wrong and it would not be refunding the 
money to him. 
Unhappy with its response, he referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt think Nationwide should have to return the money to 
Mrs G and Mr P. She felt that the transaction amounts were not significant enough to have 
caused Nationwide to have contacted him. And even if Nationwide had contacted him before 
the final (and largest) payment of £2,500 was sent, given his prior dealings with S, its likely 
Mr P would have sent the payment anyway. 
Mrs G and Mr P (through their representative) asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
matter explaining that the transactions were unusual and Nationwide ought to have 
contacted them about the payments before they were allowed through. Had they done so, 
Nationwide would have been able to identify that this was a scam and prevented them for 
losing this money. 
Nationwide agreed with our investigators view of the complaint and also submitted Mrs G 
and Mr Ps bank statements. It made no further comments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 3 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mrs G and Mr P replied accepting the findings in the 
provisional decision while Nationwide did not reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Firstly, I think it may be helpful to set out that financial businesses (like banks and building 
societies) have an obligation to process the payments its customer authorises it to make 
both under the regulations applicable and the terms and conditions of accounts. However, 
businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling victim to a scam. 
Businesses need to strike a balance between intervening in payments to prevent scams or 
financial harm, and the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate 
transactions. 
What this means is that Nationwide is generally expected to process any payments Mrs G 
and Mr P authorise, but it also has to monitor transactions. If any transactions are flagged as 
suspicious, or sufficiently unusual  Nationwide should take measures to prevent its 
customers, such as Mrs G and Mr P, falling victim to a scam. 
It may also be helpful to explain, that Nationwide didnt scam Mrs G and Mr P and was not 
the perpetrator of their losses. And, as explained above, businesses usually are under an 
obligation to process payments authorised by consumers. The starting point is that, if 
consumers authorised the payments, then theyre responsible. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Nationwide liable for the losses 
instead of Mrs G and Mr P, Id need to be satisfied that Nationwide failed in its duty to protect 
Mrs G and Mr P in some way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this 
either would have stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate 
the losses once notified of the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
The relevant transactions Mr P sent from his Nationwide account were for relatively small 
amounts. I appreciate these amounts might be a lot of money for many consumers, but 
when compared to the thousands of transactions a business like Nationwide processes  
none of them are sufficiently significant figures that I would expect to trigger alarm bells. Its 
not uncommon for consumers to transfer money to crypto exchanges and many of these 
transactions are completely legitimate. I have also looked at the statements Nationwide 
submitted, and Mrs G and Mr P had a significant amount of money coming in and going out 
of their account. Some payments and transfers were significantly more than the largest 
payment made as a result of the scam (of £2,500). Nothing about the scam payments strikes 
me as being unusual or suspicious that I think ought to have triggered an intervention by Nationwide. Even the largest payment of £2,500 was significantly less than some of the 
other payments leaving their account. 
So, when assessing if Nationwide should have contacted Mrs G and Mr P  I have to bear in 
mind the information available to Nationwide at the time of the event. In the absence of any 
other concerning factors, I dont think these payments were sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic or otherwise suspicious to have prompted an intervention by Nationwide. 
So, like our investigator says, the transactions made were not individually and collectively 
significant enough, in my view, to have alerted Nationwide to something having gone awry. 
For the sake of completeness, however, and for the benefit of Mrs G and Mr P, Ive 
nonetheless thought about what I think most likely would have happened if Nationwide had 
flagged the last and largest transaction (of £2,500) as suspicious and contacted Mr P  to 
discuss what was going on.  
Having looked at all the evidence provided, I dont think an intervention from Nationwide 
would have most likely prevented the loss at that stage and Ill explain why. 
Before the payment of £2,500 was made from the account in August 2021, Mr P had no 
reasons to think this was a scam. S had been recommended to him by a close friend who 
told him hed received a good return on his investment. 
Mr P has also told us that he: 
had several calls with the scammer, building a relationship of trust. Based on the many 
positive reviews online, the company website, and the professional nature of the scammer I 
confirmed I would like to invest as I was sufficiently satisfied that the scammer was genuine.
By this time, Mr P had also been able to withdraw £500 convincing him that the S was 
completely legitimate, and everything was working as it was supposed to. 
So, in my view, I dont think any of these payments were unusual or suspicious based on Mr 
P and Mrs Gs account activity. But even if Nationwide had contacted Mr P in August 2021, 
to discuss the final payment, I have no reason to think that Mr P would have been anything 
but honest with Nationwide. I think Mr P would likely have told Nationwide that S had been 
recommended by a friend whod received profit from S, that hed been able to withdraw his 
own money and that he trusted S. None of that indicates a scam so even if Nationwide did 
give Mr P a warning that this might be scam, I dont think it would have stopped Mr P from 
making that payment, given his experience with S up until that point. Nationwide can only 
share its concerns, but ultimately it would still have been up to Mr P to decide whether to 
send the payment, given Ive seen nothing to suggest Nationwide reasonably ought to have 
known S was running a scam (as distinguished from it warning Mr P that it might be). 
So, like our investigator says, Im therefore not satisfied that Nationwide could have 
prevented the scam at this stage, even if it had intervened. As Mr P sent the money to an 
account in his own name with the crypto exchange, before he sent it off to the scammers, 
Nationwide couldnt have retrieved the money for him after it was alerted to the scam  so I 
dont think it could have mitigated their losses at this stage. 
I would add that while Mr P says the first payment he made to the crypto exchange was for 
£303, this looks like a VISA payment made to a completely different company (rather than a 
transfer to the crypto exchange). If this was a VISA card payment, the only way he could 
potentially have sought recovery of this amount through Nationwide would have been via a 
chargeback. But he raised his concerns with Nationwide over a year after that payment had 
been processed by Nationwide  so its likely he would have been out of time to raise a chargeback request. And in any event, even if he wasnt out of time, it seems unlikely a 
chargeback would have succeeded given theres no evidence the merchant paid directly 
here didnt provide the services intended. Even if the money had been paid directly to the 
scammer though, there are very limited chargeback grounds in situations like this, with quite 
strict evidential requirements, which I am not persuaded Mr P would have been able to fulfil. 
So, I dont think its likely this money (the £303) would have been recoverable through 
Nationwide. 
Im very sorry Mrs G and Mr P have lost this amount of money and I have no doubt that this 
has caused them a significant amount of distress. But as Ive said above, Nationwide was 
not the perpetrator of the scam, and I dont think it acted incorrectly in not intervening before 
these payments were sent. And even if it had intervened before the final payment, Im not 
satisfied that Mr P would have heeded its warnings. So, as it couldnt have most likely 
prevented the loss, I dont think its fair for it to be held liable for Mrs G and Mr Ps losses.
Neither Nationwide nor Mrs G and Mr P have made any additional comments or 
submissions. So, in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to 
depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, while I am again 
very sorry that Mrs G and Mr P fell victim to this scam, my decision remains as set out in my 
provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman