DRN-3923406
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Covea Insurance plc (Covea). He isnt happy about the 
valuation it provided for his car under a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr B is unhappy with the valuation Covea have offered following the theft of his car that 
wasnt recovered. Mr B has said he has been scanning dealers prices and all similar 
vehicles in terms of specification for age and mileage have been advertised at 35-40% 
higher than the valuation offered by Covea. 
Covea explained how it had valued Mr Bs car and it felt it offered a fair market value. As Mr 
B remained unhappy, he complained to this service.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr B, but she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr B didnt agree, he said in 2021 when he took the policy out the insurers provided a 
vehicle valuation of £9,000. He feels the insurer would have had access to the same market 
value and vehicle history at the time of policy inception and renewals as they had when they 
processed the claim. He also said the claim was still outstanding at time of renewal and the 
renewal documents that were sent still showed value of the car at £9,000. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr B feels his car is worth more than Covea offered him, and I 
understand the car was very well maintained including the engine being replaced in 2019. 
But this service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Bs. When looking at 
the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company, I consider the approach they have 
adopted and decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances.
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value. I pay 
attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other evidence 
provided by both sides, Mr B has mentioned he has scanned dealers prices for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on this than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up-to-date guide 
of the value of the car in question. I will only tell a business to increase its valuation if I 
consider it is unfair. 
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied Covea acted fairly when it valued Mr Bs car at 
£6,045 minus policy excess. 
Covea has shown the information provided on the valuation guides and although it was 
unable to inspect the vehicle due to it not being recovered after the theft, Im satisfied it has 
considered the age, mileage, and general condition of the vehicle as Id expect it to. It will 
not look to reimburse general maintenance costs that Mr B incurred when owing the vehicle.
It may well be that Mr B has struggled to find a car with similar specification but that doesnt 
mean Coveas valuation was unfair. Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science 
and it isnt my role to value Mr Bs car. Im just looking to see if Covea has acted reasonably 
in providing a fair market value of his car and I think it has.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments that he said the insurer calculated the value of the vehicle 
on his policy documents at time of taking the policy out in 2021 and the renewal documents 
sent through whilst the claim was ongoing.
It is usually the policyholder, not the insurer that sets the value of the insured vehicle. Having 
looked at the statement of fact this shows the value of the vehicle is recorded at £9,000 and 
the statement above this information says:
Please read the following facts carefully, they are a record of the information provided by 
you, which is effective from 22nd December 2022.
The policy document also defines the statement of fact as follows:
The information you gave in your application for this insurance. This includes information 
given by you or by someone on your behalf.
Im satisfied that the value has not been set by the insurer in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The vehicle owner applying to insure their vehicle is best placed to estimate the 
replacement value and its their responsibility to ensure they provide the correct amount. Its 
not practical for insurers to use valuation tools to estimate the values of vehicles before all 
motor policies are taken out. However, Im satisfied it isnt unreasonable for an insurer to 
check the value of the vehicle after a claim is made. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied Covea has looked to value Mr Bs car in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I therefore wont be asking Covea to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman