The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) as it closed her credit card account even 
though she asked for the account to remain open.
What happened
Mrs H had a credit card account since January 2007. On 17 November 2019, HSBC sent her 
a letter confirming the account had been dormant and hadn't been used for some time. It 
confirmed the card wouldn't be reissued automatically and if she wanted to receive a new 
one, then she would need to call the bank. The letter also said that if HSBC didn't hear from 
her within two months of that date, the account would be closed. 
In February 2018, HSBC processed a new balance transfer for Mrs H and the card account 
was closed in May 2018. Initially, Mrs H said she hadn't received the renewal letter sent to 
her in November 2017 but subsequently, she found the letter which she had noted that she'd 
called HSBC in November 2017 to request a new card. 
She complained to HSBC in August 2019. It responded to her and said it wasn't able to 
reissue a card on that account as it was closed and once her balance was cleared, she 
could apply for a new credit card. It apologised for the poor service it provided and confirmed 
it couldn't locate the call Mrs H said she made to the bank. So it decided to make a 
compensation payment of £150 for any confusion that might have been caused. 
Unhappy with HSBC's response, Mrs H brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He said HSBC couldn't find any record of the phone call that took 
place between it and Mrs H and she couldn't provide any further evidence of the call being 
made. So he couldn't say HSBC did anything wrong in not renewing the card. He thought on 
balance there wasn't enough evidence to suggest either way that a call was made 
therefore the offer of £150 was fair and reasonable. He also thought it wasn't unfair that 
HSBC didn't re-enable the credit card. 
Mrs H asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So it's been passed to me. 
In summary, she said the following:
She doesn't have a record of the telephone call being made just as HSBC doesn't as
it's been over two years;
She's always been so diligent in applying and adhering to the balance transfer
conditions so why would she not have telephoned the bank to renew the credit card;
She's been disadvantaged as a result of HSBC's error; and
This doesn't put her back in the position as if the error hadn't happened.
DRN-1142981 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide here are whether I think:
HSBC did anything wrong in not renewing Mrs H's credit card; and 
£150 compensation payment is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having looked at what happened, I understand that Mrs H is frustrated and unhappy her 
credit card wasn't renewed in 2017. I'd like to explain that this service looks at complaints 
and makes decisions based on the available evidence. And in complaints where there isn't 
sufficient evidence, we have to make a decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
The dispute is that Mrs H says she did call HSBC to request for her card to be renewed in 
November 2017 and HSBC say it has no record of the call taking place. As a result, HSBC 
closed Mrs H's credit card account in May 2018.
HSBC hasn't been able to locate a call recording from November 2017 and it also has no 
call notes to confirm the call took place. Mrs H has a letter with hand-written notes, but she 
can't confirm the call took place either by providing further evidence such as a copy of her 
telephone bill. I'm therefore left to make a decision based on the balance of probabilities and 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
I don't doubt Mrs H's recollection of what happened but there's no further evidence from 
either party to confirm that the call took place. As such, I don't have enough evidence which 
leads me to think Mrs H requested the card to be renewed in November 2017. It took until 
August 2019 for her to contact HSBC again. While I appreciate she may have been away 
from her home but that still isn't enough for me to say that HSBC acted inappropriately when 
it closed Mrs H's account. HSBC sent Mrs H a letter to give her notice of the account being 
closed and confirmed in that letter what she should do and what would happen if it received 
no further communication from her. That's in line with what we would expect it to do. I'm 
satisfied therefore that HSBC didn't do anything wrong and followed its process.
Despite the lack of firm evidence, HSBC has given Mrs H some benefit of doubt and has 
paid her £150 compensation for any failings in the service it provided and any confusion 
caused. It also apologised. I think that's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs H has been diligent in the way she's conducted the account. But that's 
not what I'm looking at here and I don't doubt that. I also understand that she has a balance 
outstanding on the account which she says she can't pay without a credit card. However, our 
investigator has confirmed that she can still make the payment using the account number 
she has already within the statements she's received.
Overall, I think HSBC has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And 
with regard to the £150 compensation payment; I think that's fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As such, I don't think HSBC needs to do anything further. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mrs H's complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman