DRN-2678280
The complaint
Mrs D complained that when she withdrew £4,000 in cash from a branch of Santander UK 
Plc, the branch only gave her £2,000.
What happened
On 28 February 2020, Mrs D went to a Santander branch to withdraw £4,000 in cash. 
Theres a conflict of evidence about what happened.
- Mrs D said that the cashier went to the back of the branch, and returned with two 
sealed plastic envelopes. The cashier told Mrs D that the notes had been counted by 
two people, and she put the two plastic envelopes into a white envelope and handed 
it to Mrs D. When Mrs D got home, she took out £160 for herself and gave the rest to 
her son. He told her that there was only £1,840 not £3,840.  So it was £2,000 short.
- Santander said that it had given Mrs D four plastic envelopes, each containing 
£1,000. It said the cashier had put these into two white envelopes, not one, and it 
had handed both to Mrs D.
On 4 March, Mrs D rang Santander. On the call, she said she had requested £4,000 but had 
been given two sealed envelopes and in fact there was only £1,000 in each one. 
Santanders complaints team investigated. In a call, it told Mrs D that there had been no 
discrepancies of the branch tills that day. And the branch manager had looked at CCTV, 
which had clearly shown that the cashier had counted out £4,000. It said the CCTV showed 
the cashier had put two packs into one envelope and sealed it, and two into the other  in 
other words, two packs of £2,000. The cashier had then returned to the counter and had 
given Mrs D these two packs. Mrs D was distressed and said she only received one 
envelope containing two plastic envelopes.
Santander investigated again, but didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. In its final response, 
Santander said that there had been no discrepancies on the till, and that CCTV had clearly 
showed that Mrs D had been handed two sealed envelopes. Each of these had contained 
£2,000 and Mrs D had put them in her bag.
Mrs D was unhappy about this, and contacted this service. She explained what had 
happened, and said she hadnt been allowed to see the CCTV. She explained that she 
hadnt checked the notes because she had trusted the branch. She asked to see the CCTV.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She said the CCTV wasnt available. She 
said shed looked at the process Santander had followed, and there was no extra cash over 
in the tills when they were checked. The records indicated that 200 x £20 notes had been 
paid to Mrs D. The investigator said that Santander couldnt be held responsible for whatever 
might have happened after Mrs D had left the branch. She didnt think it was unreasonable 
for Santander to have refused a refund.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said she had only been handed one white envelope, which hadnt 
been counted in front of her. She said she understood their balance sheet showed no 
discrepancy, but she wanted to know what had happened to the second white envelope 
which hadnt been handed to her. And she wanted us to view the CCTV footage which 
Santander had sent to us, and to make the decision from that. She said the branch had told 
her that CCTV had been sent, and could be re-sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs D is distressed and worried about the £2,000 which she believes was 
missing. Ive looked carefully at the evidence, and in particular Ive asked questions about 
the availability of CCTV.
Santanders final response letter said that CCTV showed that Mrs D was handed two sealed 
envelopes, each containing £2,000, which she put into her bag. So its understandable that 
Mrs D wants to see this CCTV. She asked the branch for it, and Santander said it had sent a 
copy to our offices after Mrs Ds complaint.
Our investigator has explained why we havent been able to see the CCTV here. While I 
understand this will be frustrating, CCTV rarely shows enough detail for it to be 
determinative about whats happened. But here, Santanders final response said the CCTV 
clearly showed that Mrs D was handed two sealed envelopes each containing £2,000. So it 
would have been very helpful to have had this.
However, I still have to take a decision. Its never easy to do so when theres a direct conflict 
of evidence between two individuals  here, Mrs D and the cashier. In these circumstances, I 
make my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Santander has provided evidence that showed there was no cash left over in the cashiers 
till, and it has said the branch as a whole balanced that day. If an employee took the money, 
instead of handing it to Mrs D, the till and branch would still balance without any excess cash 
being left over at the end of the day. So the only two options appear to be that Mrs D did 
receive £4,000, or an employee took the missing £2,000.
The transaction took place at lunchtime on a Friday, when I think its likely that the branch 
would have been busy. I think its likely to have been particularly busy because at the end of 
February 2020, many people realised that a Covid lockdown was likely, and would have 
been keen to complete financial matters before that happened. And at a busy time, there 
would also have been a reasonable number of bank staff in the branch. Its not at all likely 
that it would have been only Mrs D and one cashier alone together in the branch. So I think 
its very unlikely that the cashier could have pocketed the £2,000 intended for Mrs D. She 
couldnt have done so without being noticed, either by Mrs D, her colleagues, or even other 
customers.
So Im left with the only option, that Mrs D was mistaken. I think thats what the evidence 
suggests is most likely here. With that in mind, it follows that I wont be asking Santander to 
reimburse Mrs D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman