DRN-3102813
The complaint
Mrs T complains The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (Equine and 
Livestock) has unfairly declined her claim on her pet insurance policy. 
Any reference to Equine and Livestock includes their agents.  
What happened
Mrs T took out a pet insurance policy for £28.77 per month to cover her pet dog. The policy 
started in May 2020. Around October 2020, Mrs T made a claim on the policy as her dog 
had experienced seizures. The medical notes provided by Mrs Ts vet say her dog had three 
seizures. And the claim was to cover their fees on 29 and 30 September 2020.
Following receipt of the claim form, Equine and Livestock declined Mrs Ts claim. It 
explained the medical notes provided by the vet shows shed told them her dog had a history 
of seizures. And had that been disclosed when she took out the policy, it wouldve excluded 
any claims relating to seizures. So it applied this term retrospectively to the policy.
Mrs T didnt accept what Equine and Livestock had said. She explained her dog hadnt ever 
experienced seizures before September 2020  and shed only told the vet that so theyd 
take things more seriously. She explained she found the situation extremely distressing and 
had a number of medical conditions which affected her behaviour at the time. And if her dog 
had experienced seizures previously, she wouldve sought treatment straight away.
Mrs T gave us medical notes going back to February 2016 showing her dog hadnt received 
treatment or medication for anything related to seizures in the past.  Her vet also wrote to 
Equine and Livestock explaining the dog hadnt been seen for seizures previously  and 
from Mrs Ts description at the time, they didnt think hed had seizures before.
As Equine and Livestock continued to decline the claim, Mrs T brought a complaint to our 
service. She explained to us her dog had previously only experienced what she called an 
inverted sneeze. And she reiterated that shed exaggerated things to her vet. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint as he didnt think there was any evidence to support the 
decision to decline the claim. But Equine and Livestock didnt accept our investigators view. 
So the case was passed to me to decide.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021. In summary, I thought Equine and Livestock 
had unfairly declined the claim and the complaint should be upheld because:
Mrs Ts dogs medical notes showed she visited the vet regularly and her dog had been 
prescribed various medications. But there was nothing to show hed seen the vet about  
or sought treatment for  seizures.
Id considered the worry the seizures mustve caused Mrs T and the number of times and 
the other reasons why she usually visited the vet. And I thought it was more likely she 
wouldve sought medical advice for seizures earlier than she did if her dog had 
experienced them before.
Equine and Livestock had relied on what Mrs T had said to her vet at a time she says 
she was upset, very worried and said what she felt she needed to get her dog treated. 
And I didnt think there was any other evidence her dog had a history of seizures. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Equine and Livestock said it accepted my decision. Mrs T thanked our service and agreed 
with how Id set things out. But she asked for further comments to be added to the decision. 
In summary she said if her dog had suffered from seizures previously she wouldve 
continued the lifelong policy she previously held; and its unlikely he wouldve reached the 
age he had, particularly as the medication he is now on is causing life-limiting side effects.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything both sides have said in response to my provisional decision. 
And overall, I see no reason to change my conclusions. So I still think the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, Equine and Livestock should settle Mrs Ts claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions under the policy; and remove the exclusion it added to 
her policy relating to seizures.
Mrs T may have already covered the vet fees herself. So if the claim is payable once the 
remaining terms are considered, Equine and Livestock should pay her 8% simple interest* 
on the amount it wouldve covered under the policy from the date she made the payment 
until it settles it. This is subject to her providing reasonable proof of the payment to her vet. 
*If Equine and Livestock considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and direct The Equine and Livestock 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my 
decision before 9 November 2021. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman