DRN-2447670
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his mortgage account with Atom Bank PLC. Mr H is unhappy that 
Atom will not extent its consent to let (CTL) or alternatively will not waive the early 
repayment charge (ERC) on his mortgage product to allow him to remortgage onto a buy-to-
let (BTL) mortgage with another lender.
What happened
Mr H has a mortgage with Atom taken out in September 2017. It is on a five-year fixed rate 
product which is subject to an ERC until July 2022. In 2018 Mr Hs employer transferred him 
to the Far East. In May 2018 Atom agreed to a 12-month CTL, which ended in May 2019. 
Atom agreed to extend this until July 2019. But once this date passed, as Mr H was still 
working in the Far East and his contract didnt end for another year, Atom agreed to a further 
extension, as Mr H was due to return to the UK in April 2020. The extension was granted for 
12 months, ending in July 2020. 
After the assignment ended, rather than return to the UK, Mr H took up a local contract in the 
Far East. He asked Atom to extend the CTL, but, after Mr H explained that his current plan 
was to stay in the Far East for the foreseeable future, the bank declined to do so. 
Atom explained to Mr H that CTL is intended to be a short-term concession, to cover a 
temporary absence by the borrower. The bank said that CTL was agreed on the expectation 
that Mr H had intended to return to the property as a resident upon the expiry of the CTL in 
March 2020. But as Mr H was not now intending to do this and wanted to continue to rent out 
the property, he would need to arrange a BTL mortgage with another lender, as this wasnt a 
product Atom offered. Atom clarified that the ERC would apply if the mortgage was 
redeemed before June 2022.
Mr H was unhappy about this. He said that he didnt believe a court of law would think it was 
reasonable for Atom to decline CTL and to apply an ERC. He brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator looked at it.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Although he noted the reasons 
why Mr H wanted the extension, the investigator ultimately didnt think Atom had acted 
unfairly, both in declining a further extension to the CTL and in refusing to waive the ERC if 
the mortgage was redeemed.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes reiterated his belief that Atom hasnt treated him fairly. Mr H said that this 
was the first time he was aware that Atom wasnt able to provide BTL mortgages. Mr H 
argued that the ERC is designed to stop the customer going somewhere else for a better 
deal and that it is not designed to penalise someone in his situation. It is Atom which is 
choosing to terminate the agreement, so it is unfair that the ERC should be applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for the following 
reasons.
I appreciate that, when Mr H took out this mortgage in September 2017 he hadnt anticipated 
being posted abroad within a few months. It was reasonable for Atom to grant CTL in 2018, 
and to renew it a year later. But CTL isnt intended to be a long-term measure; and on the 
information Mr H had provided when CTL was granted, Atom granted CTL because it 
thought Mr H would be returning to the UK to live in the property.
Mr H has now confirmed that, at least for the foreseeable future, he will remain in the Far 
East and, indeed, hes taken up a new contract out there. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Atom has acted unreasonably in declining to extend its CTL. Atom doesnt offer BLT 
mortgages  only residential investment mortgages to professional landlords who reside 
permanently in the UK and who are operating a portfolio of rental properties as their main 
business. 
Given this, and taking into account Mr Hs confirmation that he intends to remain in the Far 
East for at least the next few years, I dont think Atom has acted unreasonably in asking 
Mr H to make alternative arrangements for his mortgage financing. 
The mortgage terms and conditions state that the property must be Mr Hs main residence.
The mortgage has an ERC until June 2022. Mr H argues that its unfair for Atom to charge 
this when its not his decision to terminate the mortgage, and he feels hes being penalised 
unfairly. But the ERC isnt a penalty  its a contractual term agreed to by Mr H. In simple 
terms, when a lender offers an interest rate product, both lender and borrower are tied into 
the product for a fixed term. Atom has to raise the funds it lends out and to pay for those 
funds, including paying interest. Atom relies on income from borrowers repaying the 
mortgages to cover the costs of its funding and budgets for that income based on the length 
and level of interest rates. 
So when the mortgage is repaid early, Atom wont receive the income it was anticipating and 
needs in order to repay its own borrowing and so has to ensure its costs are covered. As a 
result, mortgages with interest rate deals  not just with Atom but across the industry  
include a contractual term allowing for an ERC. An ERC isnt a penalty  which has a strict 
meaning in law (a charge levied for breaching a contract). Repaying a mortgage early (in full 
or in part) isnt a breach of the contract, its something specifically allowed for in a contract. 
I take on board Mr Hs frustration that Atom wont waive the ERC, and I understand that he 
thinks this is unfair, even though, as he sees it, it is Atom which is saying Mr H must repay 
the mortgage. But Atoms regulatory permissions dont allow it to offer BTL mortgages to 
borrowers who are not UK resident portfolio landlords. Mr H no longer lives in the property 
(nor even in the UK) and intends to rent out the property for the foreseeable future. 
This goes beyond the situation in which CTL was originally granted  for a temporary period, 
following which Atom believed Mr H was returning to live in the property. So the situation 
leading to Atoms request that Mr H should arrange a BTL mortgage with another lender, 
triggering the ERC payable to Atom, has come about from decisions Mr H  rather than 
Atom  has made. 
In all the circumstances, I can find no basis upon which I can fairly or reasonably order Atom 
to waive or reduce the ERC.Ive noted Mr Hs point that he believes a court would conclude that Atom is being 
unreasonable. If Mr H rejects my final decision, it wont be legally-binding on him or Atom 
and Mr H will be free to pursue his grievances against Atom in court, should he wish to do 
so. I dont have any power to decide whether or not Mr H should be bound by the terms of a 
contract he agreed to; a court is the more appropriate forum for determining contractual 
disputes. Mr H might want to take legal advice if he is considering embarking on any legal 
proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman