DRN-4509753
The complaint
Mr D complains about his membership of a group private medical insurance policy with 
Vitality Health Limited.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, from March 2022 to August 2023, Mr D was a member of a 
group private medical insurance policy provided by his employer. One of the benefits of 
membership is a 50% discount at one of Vitalitys partner gyms. The terms and 
conditions of the benefit provide that transferring from one gym to another incurs a 
transfer fee.  
Mr D says that in January 2023, he tried to join one of Vitalitys partner gyms but was 
unable to do so. In February 2023, Mr D contacted Vitality and told it that the gym hed 
like to join had told him that he was already using the benefit at another gym. Vitality 
cancelled Mr Ds benefit at his previous gym. Mr D says that he tried to join the new gym 
several more times but couldnt do so. 
In May 2023, Mr D contacted Vitality again and said that he still couldnt sign up with the 
new gym and take advantage of the benefit. Vitality referred the issue to its technical 
team. It offered to pay Mr Ds £50 transfer fee once the technical issue was resolved and 
to refund 50% of the monthly subscription fee for the new gym. It subsequently offered 
Mr D compensation of £25.
Mr D didnt think that was fair and pursued his complaint. He says that he cant afford to 
join the gym at full price. Mr D wants compensation for the lost discount and his distress 
and inconvenience.           
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that the steps 
Vitality had taken were fair and reasonable. The investigator said that she realised that 
submitting evidence of payment so that Vitality could reimburse 50% of the fee is 
inconvenient but that the compensation reflects that. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He thought that the steps Vitality had taken to put 
things right were insufficient. Mr D said that this matter has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. He said that he couldnt afford to pay the full price for gym membership 
then reclaim 50%. Mr D says that he returned to the gym several times in the hope that 
the technical issue was resolved. He says that his doctor advised him to exercise. Mr D 
asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that a technical error prevented Mr D from taking advantage of the offer 
of 50% discount on gym membership. The remaining issue for me to decide is whether 
Vitalitys offer to put matters right is fair and reasonable or whether it should do more. 
The technical error in this case turned what should be a straightforward process - joining one 
of Vitalitys partner gyms - into a rather protracted and frustrating series of events for Mr D. 
He says that he began the process in January 2023. Vitality was first aware in early 
February 2023 of the difficulties Mr D was having. Its action in February 2023 of cancelling 
Mr Ds previous gym membership didnt solve the problem and Mr D was still unable to join 
the gym. 
Mr D says - and I accept - that he subsequently tried several times to join the new gym but 
was unable to do so. In early May 2023, Mr D told Vitality that the problem wasnt resolved. 
In late May 2023, Vitality told Mr D that the technical issue wasnt fixed and in the meantime, 
it offered to reimburse 50% of the membership fee on proof of payment and pay the transfer 
fee once the technical issue was resolved. 
I think that Vitalitys offer to reimburse 50% of the membership fee was a reasonable 
temporary offer until the technical issue was resolved. I appreciate that Mr D says that he 
couldnt afford to pay the full fee and wait for a 50% refund, but I dont think that Mr Ds 
inability to take up that offer was Vitalitys fault. I also think it was fair for Vitality to offer to 
pay the transfer fee once the technical issue was resolved. 
I dont think that Vitalitys offer of £25 compensation was sufficient as it doesnt fairly 
compensate Mr D for his distress and inconvenience in this case. It was particularly 
important for Mr D to join a gym as hed been advised by his doctor to exercise. Mr D says 
that he made several trips to the gym in an attempt to sort the matter out. The issue was 
protracted over several months. In all the circumstances, I think that compensation of £100 
is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, 
extent and duration of Mr Ds distress and inconvenience caused by Vitalitys error in this 
case.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Vitality should pay Mr D total compensation of £100 in relation to 
his distress and inconvenience. If it has already paid Mr D £25, it can deduct that amount 
from the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vitality Health Limited should now take the 
step Ive set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman