DRN-2955978
The complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont give him a copy of his loan agreement. 
What happened
Mr S took out a secured loan some time ago for his business. Mr S was still paying the loan 
and was concerned he might be paying too much interest.
Mr S contacted TSB and asked for a copy of his loan agreement, to check he was paying the 
right amount and hadnt been overcharged. TSB said it couldnt find a copy.
Mr S complained to TSB, and it responded to say it still couldnt find the agreement. TSB 
also said the loan had been agreed by Mr S when TSB was part of a different banking group, 
and had contacted that group, but the agreement still couldnt be found.
TSB also thought Mr S had brought his complaint too late as hed agreed the loan more than 
six years ago.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and thought Mr S complaint should be upheld.
The investigator felt TSB should be able to produce a reconstituted agreement if it doesnt 
have the original agreement. The investigator also felt TSB should pay Mr S £75 to 
compensate him for not supplying a copy of the agreement and for telling Mr S incorrect 
information about being too late to complain.
TSB agreed with the investigator. Mr S said hed like an ombudsman to decide things, he 
feels TSB handled his request for the agreement very badly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has said it was wrong when it told Mr S hed complained too late, and I agree. Since 
TSB has already said it made an error, I dont intend to discuss this point at great length. 
But I know its important to Mr S I decide this point. I think TSB did the wrong thing here, it 
shouldnt have told Mr S it was too late for him to bring a complaint.
I dont believe this answer from TSB had much of an impact on Mr S, the answer was given 
as part of a final response along with referral rights to this service. Mr S brought his 
complaint to this service and its then for us to decide whether we can look into it.
But I also acknowledge it must have been frustrating for Mr S to be told hed brought his 
complaint too late. Its right TSB pay Mr S something to acknowledge this frustration, and I 
think £75 is a fair amount.
TSB has said it cant find a copy of Mr S original agreement. Since TSBs already admitted it 
did the wrong thing once, I believe it would send Mr S the copy now, if it had it. So Im 
persuaded TSB doesnt hold a copy of Mr S agreement.
The loan was agreed some time ago, and things go missing. Its not a great situation but if 
TSB doesnt have the copy it cant send it to Mr S.
Mr S explained to TSB why he wanted the agreement  he wanted to see if hed been 
overcharged. TSB has records on its systems to say how much the loan was, interest rates 
and length of agreement. I dont think it would have been hard for TSB to supply Mr S with 
these figures when Mr S first contacted it.
And this is what the investigator thought was fair, produce a reconstituted agreement using 
the figures TSB already holds. TSB has done this, and Mr S now has a copy. Again, I think 
this point is resolved, but again I think TSB did the wrong thing.
TSB could and should have handled things better when Mr S asked for the copy of his 
agreement. And TSB should have handled Mr S subsequent complaint better.
TSB agreed to pay £75 in compensation and send the reconstituted copy after this services 
involvement. If TSB hadnt already agreed to do this, I would have directed it to  I think what 
its agreed to do is a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr S complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr S complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to:
pay Mr S £75 in compensation (less anything its already paid)
send Mr S a reconstituted copy of his agreement (if it hasnt already done so)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman