DRN-3793742
The complaint
Mr B experienced difficulties contacting Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) to cancel his 
policy and he was unhappy he was charged his premium. Sainsburys were acting in a role of 
broker, so were responsible for the payment side and administration of the policy.
What happened
Mr S decided he wanted to change his insurer and he arranged a policy with a different one. 
However, he was unhappy his policy arranged through Sainsburys was set-up so it would 
automatically re-new at the end of its term, unless Mr S contacted Sainsburys to inform it he 
didnt want this to happen. Mr S wasnt aware of this arrangement when he took out the 
policy.
Mr S tried to contact Sainsburys to tell them he didnt want his policy re-renewing but was 
unable to do so. Sainsburys website said cancellations had to be done by phone, but Mr S 
couldnt get through to speak to a call agent. He looked to write an email, but all the contact 
details he could find were no-reply. So, he sent a letter but as he had no reply he sent 
another letter by recorded post.
Unfortunately, as none of Mr S attempts to contact Sainsburys worked, his policy renewed 
automatically, and his premium was taken from his bank account. As Mr S felt this was an 
unauthorised payment, he managed to have this recovered by his bank.
Sainsburys said the policy documentation sent to Mr S set out details of the automatic 
renewal and detailed that he could stop it by ringing five days before the due date. 
Sainsburys didnt receive any notification from Mr S that he wanted the renewal to be 
cancelled, but it did recognise the phone lines were extremely busy, so offered Mr S £75 
compensation. Sainsburys has asked the insurer to cancel the policy from the date of 
renewal and treat it as if the policy never existed.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought Mr S shouldve been able to 
cancel his renewal more easily, so money wasnt taken from his bank account. She 
recommended the policy should be cancelled, the premiums refunded and no administration 
charges to be applied. She also awarded £75 for the distress and inconvenience Mr S 
suffered. Sainsburys disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 10 October 2022. I said:
Mr S stated he wasnt aware his policy had an auto renewal set-up when he took out his 
policy. Its important when policies are sold that customers are aware of the key terms of the 
policy when its taken out. I think this would be deemed to be an important piece of 
information.
Sainsburys said When you activate a policy through Sainsburys Bank, we ask you to read 
through your policy documents to ensure it is suitable for your needs. If youre unhappy with 
anything youve read, you can cancel the policy within your cooling off period.
Within the policy documents, specifically the one titled About Our Insurance Services, we 
provide information about the Continuous Payment Authority that is in place. This reads;
If we offer to renew your policy automatically, you give us permission to do so on the basis 
of the renewal premium and policy conditions, details of which we will send you before the 
renewal date. If you dont want us to do this, you can call us to let us know before the 
renewal date.
An automatic renewal invitation was uploaded to your online portal on 14 January 2022 and 
an email was issued to notify you. This provided you with the premium your underwriter had 
quoted for the year ahead as well as reminding you of your renewal date, and letting you 
know we would take the payment for your renewal 5 days prior to your renewal date. It also 
made you aware that if you wouldnt like to renew your policy then you could call to let us 
know. We didnt hear from you prior to the renewal date, so the policy was renewed on 31 
January 2022 and updated documents were uploaded to your online portal to reflect this.
I am satisfied that Sainsburys did enough that Mr S should reasonably have been aware of 
the renewal process that was active on his policy. If he didnt want it he could have 
contacted Sainsburys before taking his policy out and informed it. So, I wont consider this 
point any more.
I have considered whether Mr S did enough to try and contact Mr S about his wish for his 
policy not to be auto renewed. Mr S couldve cancelled his policy via the online portal, but he 
didnt seem aware this was an option. Sainsburys have confirmed there werent any system 
issues around that period. Whilst I think the use of online technology is efficient, it doesnt 
work for everyone. I think its important different communication channels are offered for 
different demographics to suit their individual needs.
Mr S said he tried several times to call Sainsburys, but its call desks were always busy. 
Sainsburys has confirmed its desks were busy at that time. Sainsburys said Mr S had 
commented that he had hung up after 16 minutes and it thought it would be reasonable for 
him to have waited longer. I dont know how long Mr S wouldve needed to stay on the line 
for his call to be answered. Im persuaded that Mr S tried several times to get through, his 
testimony seems genuine. So, I think hes made a reasonable effort to get through.
As he couldnt get through on the phone, he considered writing an email but couldnt find an 
email address he could use. There is also evidence that he sent Sainsburys a recorded 
delivery letter  he said he sent a letter before this also. Im persuaded Mr S did make a 
reasonable effort to inform Sainsburys of his intentions. But he was unable to make contact.
As Mr S couldnt get through to Sainsburys, money was taken from his account. I think its 
disappointing that Mr S couldnt get through to Sainsburys due to its busy call lines, so I do 
think Sainsburys has let Mr S down here. I appreciate Sainsburys feels Mr S shouldve 
stayed on the line longer, but we dont know how long he wouldve needed to stay on to get 
his call answered. Mr S tried several times so was hoping he would catch a time when it was 
less busy. I dont think its fair for businesses to expect their customers to wait long times for 
their calls to be answered. Sainsburys has offered £75 compensation for this wait. I think this 
is reasonable for the inconvenience it has caused for the long waiting times.
However, I dont think Sainsburys has considered the wider distress and inconvenience Mr S 
has suffered. The impact of the long call wait times meant he had to contact his bank to 
recover the premium that had been taken from his bank account. This will have taken time 
and caused frustration. Ive also noted that Mr S recorded delivery letter was with Sainsburys in February, but he never received a final response to his issues until June. I 
think this is too long. I think the issue was a simple one and couldve been resolved swifter 
and more easily. Therefore, for these delays, I intend to award a further £100 compensation. 
So, I uphold this complaint.
As Mr S recovered the premium from his bank directly and Sainsburys has been in contact 
with the new insurer to ensure the cancellation of the old policy is aligned to the start date of 
the new policy, I dont think there is anything more to do here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S thanked our service for the provisional decision, but he felt the compensation should be 
more for the failings of Sainsburys. He clarified several points, but I will include the more 
significant of these:
[Policy] could be cancelled via the portal  Mr S said this was not at all apparent. [The IT 
system] said  can only be done by phone. I noted when checking when the complaint was 
underway that they had opened this portal cancellation facility as a new addition.
Mr S also provided a commentary explaining his evidence that Sainsburys IT systems 
werent working effectively. 
Sainsburys didnt accept my provisional decision. It made some points that had been made 
before, so I wont repeat these. It explained that Mr S couldve cancelled his policy via the 
online portal. Sainsburys said he made a conscious decision to terminate the calls before 
they were answered by an agent, and he could have opted out of the auto-renewal via the 
online portal as highlighted above. 
Sainsburys added when Mr S called us, the IVR/automated message system would have 
provided the following message to the customer - the quickest and easiest way to make a 
change is on our App or online free of any administration charges. You can download the 
App by searching for Sainsburys Bank Insurance in the App store or Google Play. Or you 
can also make changes to your policy online. Just visit Sainsburysbank.co.uk/myhome. 
Making changes over the phone will result in an administration charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made some additional comments  Mr S said he couldnt access the 
portal. Sainsburys told me that it wouldve been easier for Mr S to use the portal.
This is the complaint in a nutshell. Sainsburys has argued that Mr S could access the portal, 
whereas Mr S said he couldnt. This doesnt matter. Sainsburys must provide a service to its 
customers that is accessible to all. Its not relevant to my decision whether the portal was 
working or not.
Access to Sainsburys services needs to be fair to all customers  Mr S tried several times to 
contact Sainsburys by phone and letter. As I said in my decision, I am happy Mr S made 
enough effort to contact Sainsburys. Sainsburys have signposted customers online or to an 
app  this may be appropriate for some customers, but it wasnt for Mr S. Sainsburys 
shouldve answered the phones quicker or responded to his letter. It didnt. I dont think this 
is reasonable. So, I maintain my decision. I think £175 in total for compensation is fair for the 
level of distress and inconvenience experienced  for the reasons I set out in my decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay Mr S:
£100* compensation  for distress and inconvenience (this is in addition to the £75* 
offered by Sainsburys which still needs to be paid - if it hasnt already).
Mr S has told our service he hasnt yet received the £75 payment from Sainsburys. 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc must pay the compensation (£175 in total) within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it that Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman