DRN-3039547
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the success fee charged by Allegiant Finance Services Limited (AFS 
Limited) following a successful high cost credit claim. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M contacted AFS Limited to find out about making a claim regarding high 
cost credit. Mr M was sent a claims pack including pre-contract information. The pre-contract 
information explained Please note that we can never guarantee timescales to resolution as 
much of the process depends on third party cooperation. 
Mr M completed the claims pack and returned this to AFS Limited on 15 May. An 
acknowledgement email was sent to Mr M on the same date. By signing and returning the 
claims pack, Mr M agreed to AFS Limiteds Terms of Engagement. The Terms of 
Engagement explained:
In the event that Mr Ms claim was successful AFS Limited would charge 30% 
inclusive of VAT calculated of cash in hand compensation and You agree to pay us 
the success fee without undue delay upon receipt of funds paid to you by the 
respondent.
Under the What we will do section, the terms explained We will update you when 
there is a material claim update. This includes where the respondent acknowledges 
the claim, requests further information and/or makes a final decision. 
The cancellation terms explained If you have accepted a settlement proposal and 
cancel after acceptance, the success fee will be due in the normal way.
On 20 May Mr Ms claim was sent to lender A. Mr M was sent an email confirming this and 
saying (Lender A) has up to 8 weeks to respond to the complaint under Ombudsman rules. 
Mr M was sent further update emails on 3 and 17 June, and 1 July, telling him that AFS 
Limited were still waiting for a response, and that a response was due by 15 July. 
On 15 July Mr M was sent an email explaining We are finding that many lenders are 
experiencing severe backings in complaint handing so the fact that we haven't received a 
final response is unfortunately not that unusual at present. Either way, if there is no reply 
within 28 days your claim will be passed to our Financial Ombudsman Service submissions 
team if an appropriate resolution hasn't been achieved. 
On 21 August lender A sent a settlement proposal in full and final settlement of Mr Ms claim. 
On 15 September Mr M confirmed his acceptance of the offer from lender A. Mr M was sent 
an email on the same date with an invoice from AFS Limited for their success fee to be paid. 
Mr M was sent further email reminders regarding AFS Limiteds outstanding success fee on 
11, 14 and 20 October. The reminder of 14 October informed Mr M that lender A had 
advised of a backlog, and It is now expected that the funds will be in your bank account by 
the 3 November 2020. If you are not in receipt of the funds by this date, please let us know.
Following the reminder sent on 20 October Mr M emailed AFS Limited saying you know I 
havnt been payed, anymore emails like this I will be reporting you to the fsa,  I did not sign 
up to this form of abuse. The next day Mr M was sent an email saying Apologies for the 
emails you have been receiving. We only expect payment once you are in receipt of your 
refund. I am now able to turn off the invoice reminders, so I have updated your file and you 
should not receive any more.
On 5 November Mr M emailed AFS Limited as he hadnt received payment from Lender A. 
Mr A says he also cancelled with AFS Limited at this time when he sent them an email 
saying I have been informed that if i had sorted it myself it would of been free and done by 
now, not happy with your service, I give you 7 days to complete my refund ,as you have 
promised me dates with no result. Can't even call you not good. AFS Limited responded to 
Mr Ms email saying that payment of the compensation from lender A was outside of their 
control, and theyd contact lender A to try and speed up your paymentonce I have an 
update I will contact you straight away.
The next day Mr M was told that lender A had not been able to process his refund because 
the bank details provided were not in his name. Mr M forwarded the required information to 
AFS Limited. On 20 November AFS Limited were advised by lender A that a new 10 
working day payment time frame stands from today's date . 
On 24 February 2021 AFS Limited emailed Mr M saying that their success fee was overdue 
for the work completed. Mr M informed AFS Limited that hed cancelled their contract in 
November 2020, and asked AFS Limited to stop contacting him. Mr M complained about the 
service received from AFS Limited. 
On 12 March AFS Limited wrote to Mr M in response to his complaint saying he remained 
responsible for paying the invoice as the email in November 2020 didnt say Mr M wanted to 
cancel. As this email was sent after settlement had been accepted from lender A, AFS 
Limiteds success fee was due in line with their terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. On 16 March Mr M told 
AFS Limited that hed referred his complaint to this service. 
On 23 April Mr M was sent a letter before legal action. This allowed Mr M a further 30 days 
to contact AFS Limited, and either make a payment or discuss a payment plan. The letter 
also explained We strongly recommend that you do not ignore this letter. Failure to engage 
in the court process could lead to a CCJ, bailiff attendance or attachment of earnings order.
On 3 June Mr Ms outstanding debt was passed to a third party collections agency, and they 
contacted Mr M at his house to chase for payment. 
On 1 July AFS Limited told the third party collections agency to stop collections activity while 
the complaint was being investigated. 
The investigator found that Mr M had instructed AFS Limited to act for him and so the 
success fee was due in line with the agreed terms and conditions. The investigator didnt 
recommend AFS Limited do anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr M rejected these findings, raising several issues, including:As far as Im concerned, I cancelled with them. 
Every other week they were sending an email to me and a threatening letter saying 
you need to pay this invoice now, how can I pay the invoice when I havent been 
paid, then they said they wouldnt do that again, a couple of weeks later another 
threatening email.
The bank details were wrong, so I contacted [lender A] myself and sorted it.
When I asked them for an invoice, what it costs to send a letter, they just said no, 
thats our fee, we dont have to tell you what its for. They wouldnt even give me an 
invoice.
They said well wait for the verdict from the ombudsman before we take any steps, 
and I said thanks for that, but the next thing Ive got bailiffs banging on my door, but 
then she turned round and said we havent got your phone number weve only done 
things by email, and Im thinking thats absolute rubbish.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr M. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending AFS Limited do anything in settlement of this complaint. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M instructed AFS Limited to carry out a claim for high cost credit against lender A. Mr M 
says As far as Im concerned, I cancelled with them.
Mr M says he cancelled his contract in November 2020. Although Mr M feels strongly that 
the success fee shouldnt apply because he cancelled his contract with AFS Limited, the 
terms and conditions are clear on the circumstances in which the success fee would be due. 
These state that AFS Limiteds success fee would still be payable where cancellation that 
takes place after an offer of settlement is accepted. As the offer from lender A was accepted 
in September 2020, AFS Limited would still be entitled to recover their success fee in line 
with the terms and conditions Mr M agreed to at the time he instructed them. 
Mr M says When I asked them for an invoice, what it costs to send a letter, they just said no, 
thats our fee, we dont have to tell you what its for. They wouldnt even give me an invoice. 
The contract between Mr M and AFS Limited explained that payment of the success fee was 
dependent on Mr M receiving compensation  not on the amount of work completed. 
As lender A agreed to pay Mr M compensation, AFS Limiteds success fee was triggered at 
that point. The invoice sent on 15 September 2020 provided a reasonable summary of the 
amount Mr M would receive in compensation from lender A, and the fee that Mr M would be 
liable for once AFS Limited applied their 30% success fee to the compensation amount. I 
think the information provided to Mr M about the amount owed, and how this had been 
calculated, was clear and in line with the terms agreed to. 
Mr M has explained that The bank details were wrong, so I contacted [lender A] myself and 
sorted it. Mr M instructed AFS Limited on 15 May 2020, and the offer from lender A came in 
August 2020. During this time, Mr M was provided with regular, and meaningful updates 
about the progress of his claim, and reasons for delay. Once the offer had been received from lender A, it was a further three months before Mr M received payment. Mr M feels 
strongly that it AFS Limited is responsible for this delay. Although I appreciate Mr M feels 
strongly AFS Limited didnt fulfil their contract the way they shouldve, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support this.
The main reason for the delay was because the payee details received by lender A 
(provided by Mr M), didnt match lender As records. Ive seen that once notified of this, AFS 
Limited acted promptly in contacting lender A, and providing the correct information in good 
time. I accept what Mr M has explained about also dealing with lender A at the same time. 
But I dont think this changed or cancelled the contract with AFS Limited. Im satisfied that 
AFS Limited dealt with the claim reasonably, and in good time, once notified of the issue with 
lender A being able to make payment. 
Mr M says he received threatening emails, and continual invoices demanding payment. Mr 
M has also described in detail the shock and upset he felt when bailiffs turned up at his 
doorstep after hed referred his complaint to this service. I dont doubt what Mr M has told 
this service about the upset and frustrations experienced through his dealings with AFS 
Limited. So Ive considered the service provided overall to decide whether it would be fair to 
ask AFS Limited to do more to put things right.    
Mr M was sent invoices in October reminding him that the balance remained outstanding. I 
think its fair to say these invoices were informative and non-threatening. In November 2020 
AFS Limited were advised that there would be a further 10 working day payment time frame 
before Mr M received payment. Mr M wasnt sent any further invoice chasers or demands for 
payment until February 2021. I think this was reasonable. 
The payment reminders sent to Mr M clearly set out what hed need to do to prevent the 
outstanding payment from being passed to a third party collections agency. Mr M notified 
AFS Limited that hed referred his complaint to this service in March 2021. Wed expect a 
claims management company to put collections activity on hold while this service 
investigates a complaint referred to it. 
Shortly after receiving notice that Mr M had referred his complaint to this service, AFS 
Limited instructed the third party collections agency to cease collections activity until the 
complaint reached the end of our process. But this didnt happen until July 2021, after bailiffs 
had attended Mr Ms property demanding payment.
I understand the upset caused to Mr M by these actions. However this was something that 
was explained in the reminders sent to Mr M. And collections activity was placed on hold 
once this service notified AFS Limited of our involvement. So although I think the service 
provided here couldve been better, balancing these actions with the overall handling of Mr 
Ms claim, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask AFS Limited to offer 
compensation or reduce their success fee.
The contract agreed to by Mr M set out the terms on which the success fee would become 
payable. Mr Ms claim with lender A was successful, so I think its fair that the success fee is 
paid in line with the agreed terms and conditions agreed to. AFS Limited couldve instructed 
the third party debt collections agency to stop taking action as soon as Mr M had explained 
this services involvement. But Mr M was told what would happen if he didnt pay the 
success fee invoice, and AFS Limited did place all collections activity on hold once notified 
by this service of the complaint Mr M had made to us. For these reasons I wont be asking 
AFS Limited to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman