DRN-3476148
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer West Bay Insurance Plc in respect of the 
settlement it made to him for two claims. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged by an uninsured driver. West Bay said it was a total loss as the 
repair cost was estimated to be over £5,000, with the cars pre-accident value being around 
£3,500. It settled the claim based on the cars value, making a deduction which allowed Mr S 
to keep the car. He then had it repaired.
Only a couple of months later Mr D had another accident. This one was not his fault. When 
Mr S spoke to West Bay it said the initial repair estimate totalled £4,600. He thought this 
would mean the car would again be declared a total loss, so he obtained an estimate from 
his garage for the necessary repairs. But West Bay said the car could be repaired  it wasnt 
writing it off as a total loss as it had before. And it noted Mr Ss estimate was less than its. 
So it said it would settle for that cost minus the standard £350 excess and an additional 
excess of £900 applicable under the policy because Mr S was using his garage. Settlement 
was made and Mr S repaired his car.
Mr S felt these two different approaches in similar circumstances were unfair. He couldnt 
understand how the car would be repairable in the second instance, whilst having been a 
total loss in the first. And with that total loss settlement not being that much more than the 
final repair value for the second claim. 
West Bay said its total loss settlement for the first claim was correct. Regarding the second 
loss it said its initial repair estimate had been incorrect. But, in any event, it had been 
possible for it to settle the second claim at the full repair cost, rather than needing to look at 
the total loss value. It said this was because it would be recovering its total outlay from the 
other drivers insurer. 
Our investigator felt West Bay had likely assessed the vehicle and repair values correctly. 
But he felt West Bay had misled Mr B when it had told him of the initial repair estimate on the 
second claim. He felt this had influenced Mr Ss decision to use his own garage for repair. 
So our investigator said that West Bay should refund the additional £900 excess it had 
charged Mr S, plus interest. He didnt think compensation was warranted.
Mr S agreed. West Bay disputed the outcome. It said Mr S had known the estimate was to 
be reviewed. It also said Mr S had always wanted to use his own garage  as was clear from 
the fact hed used it before. So it didnt think it should have to reimburse the additional 
excess amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think West Bay acted appropriately when valuing the car, on both occasions. But I also 
think it caused confusion during the second claim.
Ive heard the call with Mr S during the second claim where West Bays advisor told him the 
repair estimate was more than the value hed received in settlement on the first claim. It is 
clear this causes him to think the second claim would also be settled as a total loss. I think 
Mr S reasonably thought the claim would most likely follow the same pattern as the previous 
one  that he would get a total loss settlement which would enable him to do repairs. And 
from what Ive seen Im satisfied that West Bay didnt fully explain the true position until after 
its settlement was made and Mr S had completed repairs. 
It did tell him that this second claim wasnt also being treated as a total loss. But it didnt 
explain why. In short I think West Bay misled Mr S, such that he didnt have all the relevant 
evidence to hand in order to make a properly informed decision about whether or not to use 
his garage for repairs. And Mr S has explained that if hed understood everything, he 
wouldnt have chosen a course of action that left himself substantially out of pocket. Which is 
exactly what happened.  
In the circumstances, I think reimbursement of the £900 excess, plus interest, from the date 
Mr S paid his garage for repairs, is fair and reasonable redress. I think this has been 
frustrating for Mr S  but on this occasion I dont think an award of additional compensation 
is fairly and reasonably due. It was unfortunate that West Bay got this element of the claim 
wrong, but it did pay the majority of the settlement to Mr S in a reasonable timeframe and he 
did get his car repaired. 
Putting things right
I require West Bay to pay Mr S £900, plus interest from the date he paid his garage for 
repairs until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman