DRN-3365518
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to close their 
account due to dormancy.
Mr C as represented his father, Mr C, during the complaint process. For ease of reference, I 
will refer to both account holders as Mr C throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr C says he opened an account with Barclays in 1995. And he used this account 
sporadically throughout this time.
But this account was closed in December 2020. Mr C only became aware of this when he 
attempted to use the account from his residence in Hong Kong through online banking after 
this date. Mr C was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C was unhappy that his account had been closed, as he still intended to use it. He was 
also unhappy that the account was closed without being provided any notification. So, he 
wanted the account to be reactivated and to be provided with reassurance this wouldnt 
happen again.
Barclays didnt agree. They thought theyd closed the account fairly, within their dormancy 
process as it hadnt been used in the previous 18 months. And they thought they had notified 
Mr C fairly, in line with their terms and conditions, as theyd written to the first named 
account holder.
Mr C didnt agree. And Mr C explained hed made Barclays aware in 2018 that his address 
needed updating on their system. So, he didnt think Barclays had acted fairly when sending 
the dormancy notice to his previous address.
Barclays accepted Mr C had attempted to change his address. But they explained they 
hadnt received the necessary identity documentation required to process this change and 
has written back to Mr C explaining this. As they received no further contact, they didnt think 
theyd acted unreasonably when not changing the address and continuing to use it as a 
contact method. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied Mr C 
hadnt used the account within the previous months before the account was closed. So, he 
thought Barclays had acted fairly when classifying the account as dormant and closing it as 
such. And although he recognised the notice of this had been sent to Mr Cs previous 
address, he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong as he didnt think Mr C had 
supplied the necessary information to confirm his change of address in 2018. So, he didnt 
think Mr C needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable for Barclays to only send the notice to 
his father, when he was also named on the account. And he disputed the account was 
dormant and he said hed set up a standing payee on the account within those 18 months.
Our investigator explained Barclays terms and conditions explained only the first named 
account holder would be contacted. So, he didnt think Barclays acted unfairly. Mr C didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact that complaint has had on Mr C. I understand Mr C still 
intended to use the account. And as there had been a change of address, the dormancy 
notice wasnt received. So, when Mr C came to use the account online and found it to be 
closed, I can understand how confusing and upsetting this wouldve been. And I can 
appreciate the inconvenience this wouldve caused.
But for me to say Barclays have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly when closing the account as dormant. Or, if I dont think they were, Id need to be 
satisfied they failed to make reasonable attempts to notify Mr C of their intention to close the 
account. And in this situation, I dont think they have. 
Ive first thought about Barclays actual decision to close the account as dormant. Ive seen 
Barclays dormancy process, which explains they will deem any current account to be 
dormant if its been inactive for 18 months or more. Barclays have provided me with 
statements of the 18 months before December 2020, when the account was closed. And I 
cant see that any debits or credits were placed on the account. So, I think Barclays acted 
fairly, and in line with their process, when classifying the account as dormant and closing it.
I recognise Mr C has stated a payee was added to the account during that time. But Ive 
seen no evidence of this. And even so, I dont think this would necessarily impact the 
dormancy of the account as the account was still inactive in terms of payments out, or 
payments in. So, this hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
Ive then thought about whether Barclays did enough to notify Mr C of the account closure. 
Ive seen Barclays wrote to Mr C in September 2020, explaining their intention to close the 
account. And they gave Mr C over two months to contact them if he wished for the account 
to remain open. So, I think they provided notice, in line with their dormancy process.
But Mr C didnt receive this notice. And this is because hed moved address. I can see Mr C 
notified Barclays about this change of address on 1 June 2018 and Barclays dont dispute 
this. But I can see Barclays wrote back to Mr C explaining they were unable to process this 
change of address without further identity documentation. I dont think this was unreasonable 
for Barclays to do, as they have a duty to protect Mr Cs account. While this was sent to Mr 
Cs previous address, I can see Mr C stated in his notification to Barclays that the change 
came into effect on 1 July 2018. And Barclays wrote back to Mr C asking for more 
information on 13 June 2018. So, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to assume Mr C 
received their letter before he changed address. And as Mr C didnt contact them again, I 
wouldnt have expected Barclays to change the address, or chase Mr C again for a 
response.So, I think Barclays acted reasonably when using the address they held on their system to 
send their dormancy notification. Mr C doesnt agree, and he feels the notice shouldve been 
sent to both account holders. But the terms and conditions of the account state Well send 
you information about the account to the address of the first named person. So, Barclays 
had no obligation to contact both account holders. Because of this, I cant say they acted 
unfairly when not doing so.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt think this fair and he doesnt think this term was made clear to him. 
But when the account was opened, Mr C wouldve agreed to be bound by the terms and 
conditions. And I think it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure he understood these, and I 
wouldnt expect Barclays to explain every term in detail. So, I dont think theyve acted 
unfairly.
Finally, Mr C has said he thinks Barclays shouldve contacted him by email or phone, as well 
as in writing to notify him about the dormancy. But Barclays dormancy process explains any 
notification will be sent in writing. And as I cant see Mr C provided Barclays with the 
information they needed to confirm the address change, I think Barclays were fair to assume 
this address was still correct and to use it when corresponding. Because of the above, I dont 
think Barclays need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I appreciate it leaves Mr C 
without access to the account. But for me to say it should be re-opened, I first need to be 
satisfied Barclays have made a mistake. And I dont think they have on this occasion. 
Barclays have confirmed Mr C is able to contact them in writing, with written authorisation 
from his father, to withdraw the funds in the account if he hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mr Cs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman