DRN-2921588
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Mallard
Leasing Limited, trading as Mallard Finance, (Mallard) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to
reject it.
  
What happened
 Mr N says he took out his Hire Purchase Agreement in May 2020, in July 2020 he noticed a
problem with coolant which he reported to Mallard in August 2020. He says the dealership
didnt find a fault, but a third-party garage found a cracked cylinder head with coolant in it.
He said Mallard agreed to pay for repairs but not for the labour costs. Mr N says he accepted
this, but the third-party garage then found a problem with the turbo that Mallard wouldnt
agree to pay to repair.
.
Mallard said it agreed to cover repair costs only for the coolant problem as Mr N could have
had this resolved by the dealership at no cost. It said that Mr N accepted this in November
2020 and as it heard nothing else it closed the complaint in February 2021. However, Mr N
then came back the same month to say the third-party garage had identified a problem with
the turbo. Mallard said it didnt feel this was its responsibility since the issue arose more than
six months after Mr N had the car.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
Mr N took out an agreement for a ten-year-old car with just under 70,000 miles on the 
clock. As such I think he could reasonably expect more wear, tear and repair issues 
than had he got a new car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at 
the point of sale.
The dealership didnt find a problem with the coolant and cylinder, but a third-party 
Mr N chose to use did. I wasnt sure why one garage found the problem and the 
other didnt, but I was persuaded there was an issue. And as it occurred within six 
months of Mr N having the car, the onus was on Mallard to show if this issue was 
present or developing at the point of sale or not.
Whilst Mallard explained the dealership could have resolved the issue at no cost the 
dealership didnt find an issue to resolve. So, although I accepted there was no 
agreement for Mr N to go ahead and have work done, I am not sure what he was 
expected to do having had a problem identified.
It would have been reasonable at this point for Mallard to have either undertaken an 
independent investigation or to have covered the full cost of the repair. A report at 
this time may have identified a problem with the turbo and if the cylinder /coolant 
issue was present at the point of sale or not.
Mallard offered to cover the current accumulated costs of dealing with the 
coolant/cylinder issue (£921) which was helpful. However, I thought, on proof of the 
work being done, Mallard should cover the full cost of this particular repair. I thought 
that was reasonable as I found this issue occurred within six months of Mr N having 
the car.
A potential issue with the turbo was identified in February 2021 by the third-party 
garage that had, as I understand it, Mr Ns car since August 2020 to carry out the 
coolant /cylinder repair work. I appreciate it took some time for Mr N to agree who 
would cover the costs for that work, but I saw evidence this was resolved by 
November 2020. I dont know why it then took until February 2021 for the turbo issue 
to be identified.
Mallard at this point arranged an independent inspection. There was some 
disagreement over what parts were available for the independent inspector to view. 
However, both the independent inspection report and the third-party garage stated 
that, although the turbo is wearing out and will need replacing in the future, it has not 
yet failed.
To be persuaded that Mallard should either cover the cost of turbo or allow Mr N to 
now reject the car I needed evidence the car was failing when Mr N got it, but I didnt 
feel I had this.  Mr N drove the car for approximately 6000 miles in the relatively short 
time before the coolant/cylinder issue arose and he put the car into a garage to have 
this sorted.
I didnt find it reasonable to expect Mallard to cover the cost of an item (the turbo) 
that had not yet failed or for Mr N to be able to now reject the car on the basis that 
the turbo will need replacing at some point.
I was conscious Mr N has been paying for a car he hasnt been using. I thought it 
was reasonable for Mallard to refund the monthly payments, with interest, that Mr N 
has made for five months to cover the time the coolant issue was identified (August 
2020) until an agreement was reached over covering the cost of this repair in late 
November 2020.
I didnt feel it was fair to refund other payments Mr N has made. I wasnt sure why the 
work on the cylinder/coolant problem didnt go ahead once agreement had been 
reached in November 2020 as to who would pay what. I had no evidence that was 
down to Mallard. I also didnt know why it then took the garage Mr N chose to take 
his car to until February 2021 to identify an issue with the turbo. 
It was fair for Mallard to pay the £250 compensation our investigator recommended 
for the delay in resolving who would pay for the coolant/cylinder repair costs and for 
the inconvenience of being without a car for that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Both Mallard and Mr N have responded to my provisional decision each making a number of 
points for me to consider.
Mallard has made the point that if coolant was being lost, it wouldnt have been possible for 
no coolant to have been lost when Mr N drove his car to the dealership. It feels any issues 
with the car might have arisen as a result of Mr N arranging for some aftermarket upgrades 
which could have resulted in engine damage. Mallard accepts it has no proof of this and 
neither do I. Its unfortunate that when the issue first arose that Mallard didnt arrange an 
independent inspection. This may have shown a point of sale issue or not. Given the third-
party garage Mr N used did find an issue, I am still of the view there was a problem with the 
coolant/ cylinder for which Mallard is responsible, as this occurred within six months of Mr N 
having the car.
Mallard has pointed out that agreement was reached for a split payment of the repairs on 6 
October 2020, not November 2020, as I stated in my provisional decision, so feels any 
refund of payments made should reflect this date. Mr N has confirmed his feeling that 
agreement was reached in October 2020 and, having checked the customer contact notes, 
that also seems to be the case. I am happy to accept October 2020 as the date agreement 
was reached.
Mallard doesnt agree with the suggested £250 compensation for the delay in resolving who 
should pay for repair costs and for the inconvenience of being without a car for that time. It 
feels the dealership wasnt given enough time to identify any problem and that once Mr N 
accepted its split costs offer in October 2020, it didnt feel there was any more it could have 
done to resolve the situation. 
I understand Mallards points, but am still of the view that once Mr N identified an issue 
through a third party garage, Mallard should either have arranged an independent inspection 
to clarify  if any issue was present or developing at the point of sale , or should have paid the 
full costs of repair as the issue arose within six months of Mr N having the car when we 
usually expect businesses to resolve any issues unless there is good reason not to do so. 
So, I do think Mallard contributed to the delay by entering a negotiation of who would pay 
what.
Mallard has also stated it feels any repairs should be undertaken by the dealership and not 
the garage Mr N has used. I can understand why it might want this, but I dont think this is 
reasonable. As I understand it Mr N has already incurred costs with the third-party garage, 
so it seems sensible to me for any repairs to be carried out by that garage.
Mr N has made the point that it doesnt make economic sense, nor is it potentially safe to put 
the existing turbo back into the car given both the independent report and his third-party 
garage have confirmed this part is wearing out and will need replacing at some point. I agree 
with Mr Ns view but given the turbo hasnt worn out yet , and, I have no evidence that there 
was an issue with the turbo at the point of sale, I am still of the view that its not reasonable 
to expect Mallard to cover any costs associated with the turbo. So if Mr N choses to replace 
this that is a cost he will need to cover himself.
With regard to the delay in the third-party garage identifying the turbo issue Mr N has 
explained that the cylinder head was at a machine shop that caught fire with further delays 
due to staff isolation in the pandemic. Mr N hasnt given us any proof of this, but I have no 
reason to doubt what he has told us. 
But I am surprised his third-party garage couldnt have made other arrangements. And the 
third-party garage was Mr Ns choice so whilst its unfortunate that such issues arose to cause a delay, I dont think Mallard can be held responsible for issues that arose with that 
garage. 
So, I am still of the view that the refund of payments that Mallard ought to make to Mr N 
should be limited from the time the problem was identified (August 2020) until the time 
agreement over who paid what should be reached (October 2020).
The only other outstanding issue from my provisional decision is that of the repairs to Mr Ns 
car. In my provisional decision I felt it fair that Mallard covered the costs of the 
cylinder/coolant issue only.  Mallard quite reasonably asked for clarification of the exact cost.
With regard to this, Mr N made is that the main issue was with the cylinder block  a more 
expensive component to repair than with the cylinder head. He provided an invoice for the 
repair work needed, including the turbo, a total of £6,665 and made the point that a bottom 
end rebuild was needed due to damage caused with coolant in the cylinder block leading to 
dame to the conrods, crankshaft and bearings and the need for replacement cylinder liners.
We asked Mr N to break down the invoice to show which repair costs he felt were associated 
with the cylinder issue, bearing in mind his comments above that he felt this issue was a 
more significant one than had been appreciated, and which for the turbo. We sent this 
breakdown to Mallard for its comments.
Mr N broke down the repair costs as follows 
Cylinder costs
Cylinder Head Rebuild - £322.00
 Jam Sport Bottom End Rebuild - £2,916.67
 Cambelt Kit with Water Pump - £148.99
 Head Set with Bolts - £244.50
 Oil - £35.00
Oil Filter - £7.70
Coolant - £15.00
 Seals & Gaskets for Engine Ancillary Refit - £151.75
Turbo costs
Turbocharger - £749.87
Turbocharger Oil Feed Pipe - £51.87
Turbocharger Oil Return Pipe - £48.88
 Exhaust Clamp - £23.94
Costs associated with both issues  
Labour - £720.00
 Admin Charge - £50.00
 Shipping - £68.00
Mallard didnt feel it was responsible for any repairs identified by a third-party garage.  It also 
pointed out no evidence of a point of sale issue with the turbo had been found which I agree 
with.
It specifically pointed out that it had no evidence that a Jam Sport Bottom End Rebuild at a 
cost of £2,916.67 was needed and this would not a like for like replacement since the car 
was supplied with a normal Focus ST engine. A Jam Sports Bottom End would constitute betterment. I agree with both comments. Mallard has also pointed out that Mr N might be in 
breach of his Hire Purchase Agreement if he goes ahead with this particular rebuild so he 
might want to check that with Mallard before he goes ahead.
It also felt the cambelt kit with water pump at a cost of £148.99 was routine maintenance that 
had not been identified as a point of sale issue. And pointed out it had already told Mr N it 
wouldnt cover the cost of and thought Mr N agreed to this. Having reviewed Mallards 
customer notes I would agree with these comments. So, I dont believe Mallard should cover 
this cost.
I am still of the view that the original coolant/cylinder issue is still only issue which Mallard 
should cover the cost of. In order to decide what exactly it is fair for Mallard to pay I have  
reviewed the customer contact notes and information provided by the third-party garage to 
see what the original cost of resolving this problem was. I think this is fair as Mr N did agree 
to these costs at the time. But I have also considered an invoice supplied by Mr N to show 
costs incurred to date (May 2021) and the invoice Mr N submitted in response to my 
provisional decision.
The invoice from the third party garage dated 21 November 2020 gave a total figure of 
£1,681.43 including VAT for parts, labour to cover removal of the cylinder head and 
remaining engine, sending off for new cylinder liners, piston rings and main bearings, the 
refitting of a new cylinder head, gasket with bolts, timing belt , kit and water pump, oil and 
filter.
I would have expected the additional cost relating to the cylinder /coolant issue that Mr N is 
now claiming to have been identified at the time of this invoice and included in it. As they 
werent, I cant be sure that those costs, for example the bottom end rebuild, are necessary. 
So, I dont feel its fair to expect Mallard to cover these costs.
I think the cost of the cambelt kit and water pump (£148.99) should be taken off as I am 
persuaded that this is a routine maintenance issue and I have no evidence this was a 
problem at the point of sale
I dont think its fair for Mallard to cover the costs of oil and an oil filter (£35 and £7.70) as I 
would consider these to be routine maintenance costs.
I do think its fair for Mallard to pay the administrative and shipping charges listed below as 
these were noted in the original invoice.
No other costs seem to have been identified by the third-party garage until the turbo issue 
was noted which was over nine months after Mr N had the car by which time it was his 
responsibility to show this was a point of sale issue, but he hasnt done so. So, I dont feel 
its reasonable to expect Mallard to cover these costs.
In terms of labour costs, Mr N included a figure of £720 in his last invoice to us, which I 
believe would include the £320 above already incurred but not paid. This leaves a sum of 
£400 - but as this is partly to cover work that I am not agreeing Mallard should cover the cost 
of (turbo, cambelt and Jam Sport Bottom end rebuild), I dont think its fair that Mallard 
covers the full cost of this charge. I think its fair for Mallard to pay an additional £200 labour 
charge towards the costs of the cylinder work and putting the car back together.
So, in summary, I think its reasonable for Mallard to cover the following costs 
Cylinder head rebuild £322
Head set with bolts £244.50Coolant £15
Administrative charge £50 
Shipping £68
Labour costs incurred by May 2021 £320
Additional labour costs £200
Total £1219.50
With VAT to be included where appropriate .
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Mallard Leasing 
should 
Pay the repair and labour costs of the cylinder /coolant issue as noted above to a 
maximum of £1,219.50 plus VAT, on proof the work has been completed.
Refund Mr N three monthly payments for August, September and October 2020 with 
8% simple interest added from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr N £250 compensation for the inconvenience of the delay whilst negotiating a 
contribution for dealing with the cylinder/coolant issue.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman