DRN-2343543
Complaint
Mrs A has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Mrs A bought the policy in August 2003 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1.50 per £100 of Mrs As outstanding monthly statement balance. And if 
she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs A returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs A that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent 
before it added PPI to her account. Mrs A says she wasnt aware she had the cover and she 
was put under pressure to complete the application form.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs As said, but pressure is a subjective area  what one 
person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Mrs A hasnt provided a detailed 
account of what made her feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have been 
said during the sale. So, without more information from Mrs A, I cant say she was pressured 
into taking the policy.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs As application form. Looking at the form, there is a section 
about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains what the cover is and underneath, there 
is a statement to say yes to Account Cover. In brackets it says, Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover. I can see Mrs A signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI 
added to her account. 
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Mrs A had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted a Card Protection Plan. Mrs A didnt select this 
product, so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
So, I think Mrs A would have understood the PPI was optional and I dont think she would 
have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mrs A, so it didnt have to check the policy was right for her. 
But it did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to 
take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mrs A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances, it looks like 
the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better information would have 
stopped her buying it.
Mrs A says she was entitled to three months full pay, followed by three months half pay 
from her employer if she was off sick from work. She didnt have any other way to make her 
repayments if she lost her job or was too ill to work. The policy would have paid out on top of 
Mrs As sick pay entitlement and potentially for a lot longer. So, I think Mrs A could have 
found the PPI useful if she fell on hard times. 
Considering everything, I dont think better information would have changed Mrs As decision 
to take the policy and I dont think AXA mis-sold it to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman