The Complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complain about the repai r of a le ak to a wate r feeder pipe under their 
household insurance policy. They are unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and 
want more money to co ver the cost of the repairs.  
Background
Mrs J phoned AXA s home emergency line to report a leaking pipe in their bathro om. AXA 
sent a plumber to the house to trace and repai r the leak. AXA confirmed that the repair had 
been carried out properly and that the affected area could be re-retiled. When attendin g to 
retile the area the tiler noticed a crack in the shower elbow b racket. When the main stop 
cock was opened water gushed out fro m the crack. Mr and Mrs J contacted AXA and told 
them that the repair had not been carried o ut properly and the repair had not been teste d for 
water tightness. Mr and Mrs J say that they instructed an independent asse ssment by a 
plumber who said that the plumber who carried o ut the repairs should have tested the 
pipework for leaks and may have caused the crack by over tightening the elbow bra cket nut 
when trying to repair the leak.
Having taken account of the plumbe rs report our investigator thoug ht that further 
investigations should be carried out and h e asked IPA to send an independent assessor to 
examine the repair. An independent assesso r duly inspected the repairs and found that 
some damage may have been caused but not to the extent th at Mr and Mrs J claimed. He 
thought it was fair that IPA make a payment to Mr and Mrs J in line with the independent 
assessors report.
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so I come to the same conclusion a s the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
As indicate d, Mr and Mrs J instructed a re port from a plumber. This report is a very brief one 
running to about 6 lines and the author of it sa ys that the plumber who visite d their house 
suspected  that the nut connecting the showe r was split and that the showe r could never 
have been tested. 
I had before me a report from the assesso r who also attended at the house (as suggested by 
our investigator). The assessor took various photographs and too k damp meter readings. 
The report runs to 12 pages and I had no reason to dou bt that the inspection was a thorough 
one as reflected in the report. The author of the report was of the opinion that no additional 
damage had been caused by the repairs. Following this inspection AXA sent Mr and Mrs J a 
DRN-1542852cheque for £99.39 being the amount the assessor thought would cover the cost of the 
repairs.
When considering this case, my role is to decide whether IPA acted fairly and reasonably. 
As indicated IPA instructed an assessor to attend the property. The assessor then produced 
a report. I had no concerns about the report which was full and detailed. Although the 
assessor said that no additional damage IPA sent Mr and Mrs J £99.39 being the assessors 
estimated cost of the repairs. I conclude that they acted fairly and reasonably when 
considering this case.
My Final Decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  I am satisfied that Inter Partner 
Assistance SA acted fairly and reasonably in attempting to resolve this matter. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman