DRN-4348071
The complaint
Mr B complains that Carpenter John Financial Services Ltd (CJFS) and County Financial
Consultants (CFC), a trading name of Pembrokeshire Mortgage Centre Ltd, advised him to
transfer his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
He says this was unsuitable advice and they didnt act in his best interest.
CFC has since gone into liquidation. This decision only deals with the complaint against
CJFS.
What happened
Mr B contacted CJFS in summer 2017 as he wanted advice on his BSPS pension. He said 
he spent 20 minutes with CJFS during which it was observed how much the transfer value 
had increased. Mr B says CJFS told him it was a no brainer to transfer out of his DB 
scheme and that he could expect a pension pot of around £480,000 at age 55 based on 
returns of 4-5%. 
They then referred Mr B to CFC to provide the transfer advice as CJFS werent authorised to 
do this. Mr B was shown to the back of CJFSs office where he met with an adviser from 
CFC who completed a fact find and an attitude to risk questionnaire. CFC subsequently 
recommended Mr B to transfer his BSPS pension into a personal pension. The suitability 
report recorded CFC would become the ongoing adviser firm on Mr Bs new pension plan. 
However, it seems CJFS became the ongoing adviser later on.
Mr Bs representative says there was a joint venture between the two adviser firms and
CJFS is liable for Mr Bs losses he incurred by transferring valuable benefits. CJFS say they
purely introduced Mr B to CFC and didnt provide him with any advice.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
any evidence CJFS had advised on the transfer and he didnt think that they were 
responsible for any losses he suffered in this respect. Mr Bs representative disagreed and 
so the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representatives say CFC and CJFS should both be liable for his losses. They say 
both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They say 
CJFS failed to act in Mr Bs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly collaborating 
in a manner that led to unsuitable advice. 
CFC is in liquidation, so Mr B made a claim against them to the FSCS who upheld his claim 
and found the losses to be over £94,300. Mr B received £85,000 in compensation as per the 
compensation limits of the FSCS. He would like to be compensated for his full losses 
through his complaint against CJFS.
I carefully considered whether CJFS can be held responsible for Mr Bs losses here in some 
form, however I dont think they can.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme 
and he hasnt been able to receive full compensation, however the firm responsible for this 
advice is CFC. They were the firm who had the relevant permissions and provided the formal 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. They did a transfer analysis and issued a 
suitability report to Mr B. Its worth remembering that Mr B could not have transferred his DB 
pension without CFCs advice.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between CJFS and Mr B, however I havent seen 
evidence that CJFS actually recommended Mr B to transfer. I dont doubt Mr Bs 
recollections that their attitude towards a transfer would have been positive. And they seem 
to have become the ongoing advisers on Mr Bs new pension. So they may have been 
hoping he would transfer. Ive also considered the possibility that they inadvertently strayed 
into advice, even though I havent seen any evidence to say that this is what happened. 
However, even if they did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr B and possible 
failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
CJFS did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so they 
couldnt be expected to recommend Mr B not to transfer. I think there was nothing generally 
wrong with referring Mr B on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension. And its 
clear from Mr Bs submissions that he understood the advice came from CFC.
Mr Bs representatives say CJFS referred a number of clients to CFC and most were 
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely 
they referred customers to CFC on the understanding they would provide suitable advice 
rather than on the premise that CFC would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or 
not. And its acceptable for one firm to provide transfer advice and for another to provide 
ongoing investment advice.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide 
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on CFC, who 
were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary 
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately CFCs obligation to provide Mr B with independent and suitable advice. And 
if it wasnt suitable for Mr B to transfer CFC should, as the experts in this field, have clearly 
told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any discussions with 
CJFS would have likely made Mr B go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was CFCs positive recommendation that caused Mr B to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by an unsuitable transfer. I 
dont think Mr Bs potential losses here are caused by CJFSs actions and so I dont consider 
it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 Nina Walter
Ombudsman