DRN-3325633
The complaint
Mr B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a 78-week instalment loan for £250 from Loans 2 Go on 9 January 2021. The 
weekly repayment was £13.19 and the total repayable was £1,028.82. I understand there is 
an outstanding balance.
Mr B says Loans 2 Go didnt do enough checks, the interest it charged was more than he 
could afford and not a fair amount.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said the lender should 
have completed better checks, but had it done so he couldnt see that it ought to have 
decided not to lend to Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr B required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Bs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It reduced his declared income after
a third-party income verification check. It increased his declared expenditure based on
national statistics and the credit commitments it saw on its credit check. It also
reviewed Mr Bs credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr B 
had sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford this loan.
I think these checks were initially proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its
repayments. But based on the results of the credit check I think Loans 2 Go ought to have 
carried out further checks. I say this because the credit check showed Mr B had a default 
registered against him recently - in September 2020. So Loans 2 Go ought to have sought 
further reassurance that his finances were stable. 
I have reviewed Mr Bs bank statements from the months prior to his application. I am not 
saying Loans 2 Go had to do exactly this but its one way for me to understand what better 
checks would have most likely shown. From reviewing Mr Bs bank statements I havent 
found there was a level of financial instability such that the lender ought to have made a 
different lending decision.  So better checks would not have changed the outcome. 
This means I cant fairly conclude that Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr B.
I havent seen any evidence that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. 
Mr B says the level of interest he was charged was not fair.  I accept that the interest 
charges were high, but Mr B had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its 
likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. The interest charges and rate were 
clearly set out on the Pre-Contract Credit Information and the Fixed Sum Credit Agreement 
that Mr B signed. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated 
Mr B unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. The cap on interest 
charges that Mr B referenced in his complaint only applies to high-cost short-term credit. 
This is defined as borrowing with a term of 12-months or less. And so that is not relevant in 
this case.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman