DRN-3565448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain Santander UK Plc wont refund money they paid for services which 
werent provided.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs K visited a branch of Santander and made a payment of £2,000 to a 
wedding decoration supplier. Due to the pandemic the wedding was cancelled, but the 
supplier said they couldnt provide a refund. I understand the supplier has only provided a 
£300 refund to Mr and Mrs K.
Mrs K reported the matter to Santander, but it said it couldnt recall the payment and as it 
was a faster payment, there werent any of the same protections available that there might 
have been had it been made using a debit or credit card.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative, Mr S, accepts that the supplier was a genuine business but 
thinks that Santander should have warned Mrs K that making a payment in the way that she 
did wouldnt give her any consumer protection.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
didnt think, in the circumstances of this case, there was any obligation on Santander to 
provide a warning or give advice to Mrs K. And, as Mrs K had no concerns about the 
supplier at the time, they werent convinced that such a warning would have made a 
difference to her decision to go ahead anyway.
Mr S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs K, didnt agree. He said that hed been provided with a refund 
in a similar situation and that the bank wasnt following government guidelines for refunding 
customers due to the pandemic. He said more questions should have been asked about the 
payment  particularly considering Mrs Ks age, level of English and unfamiliarity with 
making payments in this way.
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the relevant regulations and the terms 
of their account, Mr and Mrs K are responsible for payments theyve made themselves.  
Its also important to note that Im only able to consider the facts of this case. Mr S has 
referred to government issued guidelines, but Im satisfied that these refer to obligations on 
the supplier, rather than the bank. So, they arent relevant here.
While Santander does have an obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions to (among other things) help protect its customers from financial harm 
from fraud, it is not obligated to question, nor provide advice in relation to, each and every 
payment its customer makes. 
Mr S argues that Mrs Ks age, level of English and unfamiliarity with making payments in this 
way means the bank should have given her more advice. But this payment wasnt made as a 
result of fraud and the bank isnt generally obligated to protect its customers from bad 
bargains. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Santander needed to do 
anything more than assist Mrs K to make the payment and answer any questions she might 
have had.
It follows that Santander did nothing wrong by following its customers instructions to make 
the payment. 
A faster payment does not offer any of the same protections as a card payment and neither 
would it be appropriate for Santander to ask the receiving bank for the funds back  such an 
action should only happen when there are compelling grounds to believe that the recipient 
has acted fraudulently.
Im sympathetic towards Mr and Mrs K, but Im satisfied this matter is a civil dispute between 
them and the supplier and that Santander has not made a mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman