DRN-3213253
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was mis-sold a decreasing term assurance policy by an appointed 
representative of Zurich Assurance Limited.  
To resolve her complaint, Ms M wants all of the premiums she paid to be returned in full. 
What happened
Ms M met with an adviser from Capital Management Group (for which Zurich takes 
responsibility) as she was arranging her first mortgage. It was recommended that she also 
apply for a term assurance policy, which comprised life and critical illness cover with an 
initial sum assured of £115,875, a term of 25 years and a monthly premium of £26.87. The 
policy began on 1 January 2005 and was cancelled on 31 December 2007.   
In 2020, Ms M complained to Zurich. She explained about some personal issues which had 
caused the delay in pursuing the complaint. She also complained about two other income 
protection policies, sold to her in 2000 and 2005 respectively  these are the subject of a 
separate complaint and do not form part of this complaint.  
In relation to the term assurance, Ms M said she was made to feel pressured by the adviser, 
who didnt tell her about any policies other than those available with Zurich. Further, she was 
single with no dependents, in good health and had full sick pay provisions for the first six 
months if she became unwell. Ms M said if she had died during the mortgage, her property 
couldve been sold to clear the debt. So, she had no need for the term assurance at all.  
In October 2020, Zurich responded to the complaint,. It explained the regulatory position in 
2005 to Ms M noting how at that time, the sale of non-regulated protection products was 
different. It meant that when the adviser identified that a customer had a need for protection 
products only, they could recommend an appropriate policy but they were not required to 
complete a fact find detailing the customers personal and financial circumstances.
 
In respect of the recommendation, it said the adviser had acted fairly in proposing the policy. 
Ms M could have made a claim on the policy if required, and she was given a cancellation 
notice which gave her the opportunity to stop the policy if she was unhappy with it. 
Zurich did propose to uphold one part of the complaint. It agreed with Ms M that life cover 
need not have formed part of the recommendation, as Ms M had no dependents and the 
policy could have been offered on a standalone critical illness basis. Zurich therefore upheld 
that aspect of the complaint and calculated the cost of sole critical illness term assurance. 
It said that the term assurance should have cost £24.61 each month. Zurich therefore 
calculated the difference in premiums plus net interest and offered to pay this to Ms M. 
Ms M did not accept the offer and instead brought the complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint and he did not think it should succeed. He did not 
look at the life assurance aspect of the complaint, as Zurich had already accepted this was 
not necessary. 
In respect of the critical illness cover provided by the term assurance, he felt the 
recommendation was fair. He said had Ms M fallen ill with a serious illness and had a valid 
claim paid, this would have removed a financial burden at an important time. He therefore 
felt it was a reasonable proposal for the adviser to suggest. And he couldnt see any 
evidence that Ms M had been forced into taking out the cover.  
Ms M said she didnt agree. She said she felt the entire premiums should be returned 
because she had been unfairly pressured into taking out cover that she didnt want. She said 
the adviser disregarded that she had death in service benefits from her employment  and 
she was still with the same public sector employer now. This employer also gave her 
generous six pay benefits of six months full pay and six months half pay.    
She asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. My findings are, in summary;
like our investigator, I am not reviewing the life cover aspect of the term assurance 
policy, as Zurich has accepted Ms Ms arguments about her circumstances at the 
time and proposed redress for that portion of the recommended policy;
I recognise that Ms M feels that she was pressured into taking out the cover;
but, no contemporaneous documentation regarding the recommendation exists from 
the time of the sale;
because of the nature of the regulatory position at the time, there was not a 
requirement to complete fact find documentation for a pure protection policy sale;
there is also an absence of paperwork from the time of the associated mortgage 
application but I do not believe I must draw an adverse inference from this as records 
from such a long time ago are not always available;
I am able to reach conclusions on the information which is available, the accounts of 
both Ms M and Zurich and what I find most likely in the circumstances;
having done so, I am not able to conclude that the adviser coerced or compelled Ms 
M into taking out cover she didnt want;
I say that noting that Ms M was given a cancellation notice for the policy and that she 
stopped the policy altogether three years into the 25-year term;
in any event, I do not believe the recommendation made to Ms M was unsuitable;
she has had the benefit of a policy that would have made a payment equivalent to 
her remaining mortgage lending should she have become seriously ill;
that Ms M is able to say now that she remained in good health is fortunate, but it is a 
statement made with hindsight;
Ms M did not have any other benefits either personally held or those with her 
employer that replicated critical illness cover;
sick pay provides for income over a certain period  critical illness cover works as 
Ive said above, providing a lump sum payment for listed serious illnesses in the 
event of a valid claim;
though Ms M is entitled to feel otherwise, insurances such as these are a prudent 
step to take to provide security for a significant liability such as a mortgage;Ms M was the sole applicant, and she didnt have any other policy that replicated the 
benefits this one had and no other household income;
though she remains with the same employer, again this is known with hindsight;
employment benefits can be involuntarily lost  I know Ms M felt that was unlikely, 
but it was not an impossibility;
whereas, term assurance - as long as the premiums were maintained -guaranteed 
the benefits I have outlined above;
it follows that I dont believe the critical illness term assurance to be mis-sold, nor do I 
agree that the premiums should be returned to Ms M in full where the policy provided 
her insurance protection during the period it was in force;
I trust that Zurich will still offer to pay Ms M the redress it previously offered for the 
life cover aspect of the term assurance policy, which it accepted was not needed. 
 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award since I believe that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
has fairly refused the critical illness aspect of the complaint and otherwise upheld the 
remaining life cover aspect of the complaint before it was pursued to this service.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman