DRN-4167407
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) had handled a claim for subsidence 
damage made under his home insurance policy. Hes said there is still outstanding work UKI 
needs to provide settlement for. 
UKI appointed various agents to work on its behalf when progressing Mr Hs claim. UKI 
accepts responsibility for those agents. So, any reference to UKI also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Hs property suffered from damage caused by subsidence. So, he made a claim under 
his home insurance policy for this. 
UKI accepted Mr Hs claim and carried out repair works to the property. But, in June 2022 
UKI decided that whilst it would complete snagging works to the repairs it had already done, 
it would provide a cash settlement for any other outstanding work in respect of the claim. 
UKI offered two lots of settlement in June 2022 - £9,612 and £1,030, for a list of things it said 
was outstanding. And UKI said it would pay Mr H VAT on these amounts, should Mr H 
provide UKI with evidence of the VAT having been occurred. UKI also said at this point that if 
there were any new elements of work that needed to be completed it would then consider 
these too when Mr H referred them to it.
Mr H was dissatisfied that UKI were offering a cash settlement for the remaining work. He 
wanted UKI to complete all work to his property that was needed due to subsidence 
damage. And he said the cash settlement UKI had offered wasnt sufficient. 
A separate complaint looked at whether it was fair for UKI to provide a cash settlement for 
any remaining work, and whether the cash settlement offered in June 2022 was fair and 
reasonable, at that point in time. Action continued to be taken on the claim, and things 
moved on.
 
In July 2022 Mr H said he was going to get quotes to finish all of the outstanding work. At 
this point Mr H also raised further complaint points. For example, around some temporary 
fencing that had been left at the property, some beading in the conservatory that had fallen 
off and a floor tile in the conservatory that had cracked.
UKI visited to resolve some of these problems. Mr H noted there were still areas of the claim 
outstanding. In September 2022, Mr H provided two documents from a joinery firm  who 
said it thought the WC at Mr Hs property had suffered from subsidence damage. And that 
there were problems with the new kitchen that had been fitted at the address.
With there still being disputes about works needed to Mr Hs home, UKI said it would be 
willing to pay for an independent report to be carried out on the property, to establish what 
work was left to be done. UKI sent Mr H a list of surveyors it had got from the Royal 
Chartered Institute of Surveyors (RICS), and asked Mr H to pick one. Mr H didnt want to do 
this and wanted to source a surveyor himself. 
UKI later told Mr H that it actually wasnt willing to pay for an independent surveyor to come 
to the property. Instead, it said the correct process was for Mr H to provide an expert report 
on what work was outstanding as a result of the subsidence damage to the property. And 
UKI would then consider this.
Mr H provided a report in November 2022. Mr H said this evidenced the works that needed 
to be completed to remedy all subsidence damage to his home.
UKI considered this report. It accepted that the majority of the items mentioned on the report 
needed remedying, by way of a cash settlement. But UKI said it didnt accept there was 
subsidence damage to the downstairs WC, or to a doorframe, which had been mentioned.  
Mr H didnt agree it was fair for UKI to exclude the WC or a doorframe. And he said the 
cracking in the kitchen was getting worse and showing in other places too. Mr H made clear 
at this point that he didnt want UKIs agents to do the work  but wanted the cash settlement 
now, to get his own experts to complete the outstanding issues.
Our investigator considered this complaint about thought it should be upheld. They made a 
number of recommendations, including that UKI should cover the cost of repairs in the 
downstairs toilet, and the twisted doorframe in the conservatory, and change the material in 
the kitchen in line with the report Mr H provided. Our investigator said it was reasonable that 
Mr H didnt want UKIs contractors to complete the work and said that instead Mr H should 
provide two quotes for the outstanding work, and UKI should make a settlement based on 
the average of the two.
In addition to this, our investigator said UKI should refund what it cost him to get a report into 
the outstanding work needed and compensate him £150 for further distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced. 
UKI agreed to pay the compensation of £150 recommended, but noted it disagreed with all 
other recommendations. UKI said it had already accepted a number of items pointed out in 
Mr Hs report and had asked for estimates for this work, but these estimates hadnt been 
provided by Mr H. 
UKI also said it had appointed suitably qualified professionals to assess the extent of the 
damage caused to Mr Hs property by subsidence  and the information they had suggested 
the damage to the WC and the twisted doorframe werent subsidence related. Its my 
understanding that UKI said they would now want an independent professional to review 
these issues, and UKI would be agreed to be bound by their findings.
Mr H submitted two quotes for work at his property. One totalling £37,780 + VAT and the 
other totalling £32,400 + VAT. UKI didnt agree these were reasonable, and said the quotes 
included non-insured work too.
As no resolution was found to the complaint, it has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on partially upholding this complaint. Id like to reassure the parties I have considered all information supplied to this service. 
However, when coming to my provisional decision on this complaint Ive only referenced that 
which I think is necessary to explain the reasoning for my intended decision. That isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to the parties  but reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether UKI acted in line with these requirements when it handled Mr Hs 
claim. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr H feels there are outstanding items, damaged because 
of subsidence, or UKIs contractors, that havent been settled as part of his claim. So, Ive 
needed to think about whether UKI has acted fairly here.
As above, Mr H provided a report in November 2022 of the things that he considered were 
outstanding and should be accepted by UKI. As the purpose of this report was to establish 
the work outstanding to conclude the claim, Ive considered the areas mentioned in this 
report when arriving at my decision. As well as two other further issues that were noted as 
outstanding  hallway tiles and electrics.
The report Mr H provided, carried out by a firm of chartered surveyors Ill call L, noted some 
areas it considered needed remedying.
It noted that a rear garden wall that UKIs contractors had built was cracked and built 
incorrectly. It pointed out several problems with this wall. These problems included a lack of 
foundation, an incorrect mortar mixed used, and the wall not being tied into the existing 
garden walls either side, leaving gaps. The surveyor noted the wall needed to be demolished 
and rebuilt correctly.
L also said a gatepost UKIs contractors had installed was distorted, with the post needing to 
be reset and the locks adjusted to ensure they worked properly.
Further to this, the report noted that the rear porch roof was covered with a rubber single ply 
membrane  but there were open joints where the membrane hadnt been welded together 
correctly. The surveyor also noted that there was no rainwater disposal. So, it was noted that 
the lap joints needed to be properly formed and rainwater captured into gutters and 
downpipes.
Half landings between the first and second floors of the property were also mentioned. The 
surveyor said they understood that the half landing had been opened up and refixed as part 
of the subsidence repair work. But L noted that there seemed to be an area of this floor that 
was either missed when the work was carried out, or the work failed - as the floor was 
springy. A crack on the wall was also noted in this area, which L said appeared to be part of 
the original subsidence damage, that hadnt been repaired. So, in terms of this area, L 
recommended that the carpet and landing boards be removed to ensure the trimmers were 
properly connected to the external wall and stair flights as well as the crack to the wall being 
remedied by the crack being raked out, filled and then the area redecorated. 
There were also two cracks noted on the north wall of the conservatory. L said where the 
first crack was, de-bonded plaster needed removal and made good. And where the second 
crack was, the crack should be raked out, filled and decorated.
UKI accepted the above areas in Mr Hs report needed remedying. And said it would be 
willing for someone to attend to visit and rectify the garden walls, rear concrete post, conservatory plaster, porch roof and half landing. As UKI accepted these items were 
outstanding and needed to be rectified, I havent needed to consider these areas any further. 
Except to discuss whether I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in how they proposed to 
rectify these problems.
Mr H said he had lost trust in UKIs contractors. So didnt want them to do the above work. 
UKI responded and said it had actually intended to get its contractor to quote for the above 
work  and then cash settle those items based on that quote, so Mr H could get his own 
contractor to do the work. 
I agree that the appropriate way forward is for a cash settlement to be provided for the above 
areas. Its clear the relationship between the parties has broken down. And I think the most 
pragmatic way is for a cash settlement to be provided to Mr H, so he can choose his own 
contractor and get the above works remedied. Im satisfied this cash settlement should be 
based on market rates, rather than any favourable rate UKI may get with its own contractors, 
otherwise Mr H wont be able to remedy the problems caused by UKIs contractors carrying 
out the inadequate repair works mentioned above.
Mr H has provided some quotations. But I dont think its fair to use these quotations to settle 
the above. I say this because from looking at the quotes they appear to include items that 
dont form part of the outstanding work evidenced, or items which UKI has already provided 
some settlement for  such as the re-turfing. And the quotes dont break down the costs to 
show what it would cost solely for the work agreed above as necessary.
There were three more areas mentioned in the report  which are areas where disagreement 
remains. Ive considered these, and whether I think UKI should do anything more in respect 
of them below.
Downstairs WC
Mr H has said that he feels some damage to the ground floor WC was caused by 
subsidence and says the report he provided from the surveyor agreed that to be the case. 
Ive reviewed this element of the report, as well as UKIs position on the matter.
Mr Hs surveyor said that on the balance of probabilities they considered it likely that the 
damage was caused by subsidence, given there was external work carried out because of 
subsidence damage in the vicinity of the WC. 
UKI has said the damage claimed for in the WC isnt related to subsidence but is because of 
a separate problem  an escape of water. 
In instances such as this, I need to review both parties position, and decide what I think is 
more likely than not in the circumstances. And I must bear in mind that it is Mr Hs duty to 
prove a loss occurred that was linked to the subsidence originally claimed for.
Having reviewed the information from both parties, Im currently more persuaded by UKIs 
position on the matter. So, I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably by declining to settle 
any work in the downstairs WC as part of this claim.
I say this because whilst Mr Hs surveyor, L, said that work was carried out in the vicinity of 
the bathroom in relation to subsidence, and that a moisture meter test showed no 
dampness, I cant see any detailed explanation as to why the external work the report refers 
to would have caused the internal issues noted. And, whilst the room wasnt reading as 
damp when the surveyor viewed the property, this doesnt seem unreasonable  given that if 
there had been an escape of water it may have been some time ago. I also think UKI has provided reasonable explanations in response to Ls report, and to 
evidence its position that the loss here wasnt linked to the subsidence claim. 
UKI has said that:
We note the Surveyors comments that superstructure repairs were undertaken to the flank 
wall as part of the works, but these repairs were towards the rear corner of the flank wall and 
not in the vicinity of the WC and several meters away from the WC. As advised during and 
after the meeting on 19 April 2022, there is evidence that the boxing around the pipework 
has been wet due to an escape of water, hence the blown tiles and discoloured ply. The ply 
was dry as the radiator was turned off which was also rusty and it remains our opinion that 
the blown tiles are most likely due to an escape of water from the radiator or pipe and will not 
be addressed as part of the subsidence claim.
UKI has also referred to photos showing previous water damage, as well as information such 
as the fact a radiator in the room had been permanently turned off  suggesting its possible 
the radiator was simply turned off in the room, rather than remedying the root of the problem 
 this being a leak. 
Given that UKI has provided a fair explanation that the external work wasnt near the WC 
and has provided reasonable detail as to why the room was dry but suffered a historic leak, 
and Mr H hasnt provided anything that firmly evidences damage caused by subsidence 
movement in this room, I dont intend on requiring UKI to do anything differently in respect of 
the WC. 
Twisted doorframe from conservatory into rear living room
Mr H says this doorframe should be included as part of his claim too. L, in its report, said it 
understood that during the works carried out to repair the conservatory walls, the roof of the 
conservatory had been removed and the bay wall area not fully protected from the elements 
and had become saturated causing the door to twist and distort. So, it recommended the 
door be replaced with a new, made to measure door.
UKI disagrees. It says the door is twisted  but doesnt consider it was twisted because of 
subsidence, or the way its contractors worked.
UKI has said:
following the visit on 19th April 2022 we advised our opinion that the movement to the rear 
bar window is historic and the windows in the bay window open and close ok and there are 
no cracks around the Dining room bay window indicative of subsidence. The door was noted 
to be twisted but opened and closed with the latch fitting in the keep perfectly during the visit. 
If the door had twisted due to subsidence, there would be evidence of subsidence to the 
surrounding bay window. 
If the door had twisted due to the door being exposed to the elements for the weeks when 
the Conservatory was taken down and rebuilt, then it is most likely the latch would have 
fitted in the keep prior to the taking down of the Conservatory and not fitted in once the 
Conservatory was rebuilt having been exposed to the elements, but as explained the latch 
and keep worked during our meeting. The door is also unlikely to have twisted due to being 
exposed to the elements over such a small period of time and bearing in mind the door is 
made from hardwood and varnished. 
As with the downstairs WC in dispute, Ive also needed to think about what Im more 
persuaded by here, to determine whether I consider UKI has acted fairly in this respect.And, based on the information provided to me, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly in saying 
the doorframe isnt something it is going to deal with as part of the claim. UKI has explained 
why it doesnt consider this door to have been damaged by subsidence. And I havent seen 
any evidence that does show the loss was caused as a result of the subsidence that 
occurred.
UKI has also provided context as to why, even if the door was exposed to the elements, this 
was unlikely to have caused the door to twist and distort in the way that it did  given the 
type of wood and the way it had been treated. As this explanation considers the type of door 
and provides detail as to its performance before and after the conservatory work, which 
doesnt appear to have changed, I dont think its fair to say UKI should be responsible for 
remedying this issue. So, I dont intend on requiring UKI to do anything further here.
Kitchen
 
Mr H has raised that there are problems with the quality of the replacement kitchen fitted at 
his home. The report from L that Mr H has provided notes that the damage to a kitchen post 
is because of water damage. But that the water had been able to seep in here because the 
vinyl wrap on this kitchen component had been cut and not properly sealed. 
The report also noted the same was the case with the skirting/plinth. L said these areas had 
been trimmed at the bottom, removing the vinyl wrap, that meant water when cleaning the 
floor would be soaked up. It was highlighted that the vinyl was laminating around most of the 
kitchen and dining areas as a result of incorrect installation too. And that it wasnt possible to 
fit the plinths without trimming them, because of the way the base cabinet was set out.
To remedy the problem L said the components should be changed to a natural wood, which 
would be more robust  and then painted to match the rest of the joinery.
UKI said that it sought the manufacturer of the kitchens advice, and that the kitchen was 
installed correctly. But, said that it was willing to replace the corner post with a painted 
softwood one as a gesture of goodwill. And that the skirtings could also be replaced with 
plinth and rubber seal to the bottom. UKI asked Mr H to get a quote for this work to be 
completed. But Mr B didnt agree with UKIs proposed way of resolving the problems in the 
kitchen. And wanted the work completed as per Ls report. 
So, Ive thought about this element of the matter too. I appreciate UKI has said the kitchen 
was fitted in line with the manufacturers instructions, and that the manufacturer didnt note a 
problem with the kitchen when it visited Mr Hs home. But, based on the report from L, and 
photos Mr H has provided, showing the kitchen cracking in these areas, Im more persuaded 
by Mr Hs information that there is a problem with the areas of the kitchen mentioned above. 
L has provided detail of why elements of the kitchen isnt fitted correctly, and why that is 
causing a problem.
To remedy the matter, it seems to me that it wont be possible to fit the matching plinths from 
the same range, as theyd need to be trimmed. And I dont know whether the manufacturer 
still makes the same kitchen. So, it might not be possible to get a like for like kitchen post 
either.
With that in mind, I think a fair and pragmatic way to resolve this issue would be for UKI to 
provide Mr H with a cash settlement, based on market rates, to enable him to purchase a 
replacement kitchen post and plinths of natural wood around the kitchen and dining area, 
and arrange for these to be painted and fitted. This will then mean the replacement areas of 
the kitchen will match with what is already there.Cost of the surveyor report 
Mr H would have had to pay for the report he provided from L, in relation to outstanding 
works at his property. So, Ive thought about whether UKI should be contributing towards the 
cost of this report.
And I think it would be reasonable for UKI to reimburse Mr H for 50% of the cost he incurred 
in gaining a report from L. And pay 8% interest on this amount, as detailed later in this 
decision. UKI had been firm in noting to Mr H that it wasnt able to accept there were further 
works that needed resolving at the property. For example, the rear garden wall, which UKI 
felt had been built correctly. 
It wasnt until Mr H got the report from L, which highlighted a number of issues with the work 
carried out, that UKI accepted it needed to take action on some outstanding elements of the 
claim. As it took Mr H getting this report to evidence that further work was needed, and this 
was at a cost to him, it seems fair for UKI to reimburse half of this cost. 
The reason I dont consider that UKI needs to reimburse the cost of the full report is there 
were areas in the report  the WC and twisted doorframe  that UKI had already told Mr H 
werent covered. And I think UKI had acted fairly in respect of those areas. And as I dont 
think UKIs position on those things was unfair, it follows that it shouldnt have to reimburse 
Mr H for seeking to prove those elements of his claim  it was for Mr H to come up with that 
information.
As discussed above, there are two other outstanding issues Im aware of in relation to Mr Hs 
claim. These being the hallway tiles and the electrics at his home. So, Ive considered these 
below.
Hallway tiles
Mr H has provided UKI with details of the tiles for the hallway. And has asked UKI to 
guarantee these times will match the existing tiles. UKI has told Mr H that it isnt possible to 
do this, given the tiles Mr H has selected have been chosen online, and would come from 
abroad. But that any issue with the tiles could be reviewed at a later date, when theyd 
arrived. 
And in an email, dated 26 September 2022, UKI told Mr H that it would cover the cost of the 
supply of the tiles, and if the overall costs increase in respect of VAT or import charges it 
would ask for documentation presented to show this, so UKI could assess these costs. 
Im satisfied thats fair. I dont think UKI would feasibly be able to provide any additional 
guarantee of the tiles matching  the tiles are abroad. And, UKI has said it will review this at 
a later date  which I think is fair  given that at this stage there isnt any evidence of a 
problem with the tiles.
UKI has also said it will look at additional costs when it has been provided with 
documentation in relation to this. Mr H will therefore need to provide this to UKI, should VAT 
or import charges be evidenced as an issue.
Electrics
Mr H reported to UKI that in December 2022 he experienced some problems with the 
electrics at his property. He said the electrics tripped out, and a switch was very hot. Mr H 
said that two chandeliers had been installed by UKIs contractors, on a switch that couldnt cope with those lights. And so, the switch caught on fire. Mr H said this meant the safety 
certificate for the electrics cant have been correct  and hed been left with unsafe electrics.
On hearing this, UKI promptly appointed an electrician to attend Mr Hs property and assess 
the problem. Its my understanding that the electrician noted the problem wasnt with the 
electrics but was with the lights that had been used in the relevant area. Mr H told UKI that it 
had been its contractors that fitted the lights, bulbs and switches. So, he considered that UKI 
were at fault here. It appears the issue with the incompatibility of the lights was fixed. So, 
there isnt anything outstanding here. Except for Mr Hs concern that the electrical safety 
certificate was incorrect.
I havent seen any information within the remainder of the information sent to me that 
suggests there is any further concern with the electrics at the property, or evidence to 
suggest the electrical certificate issued was wrong. I dont think this certificate would have 
been to assess the light fittings, but rather the electrics themselves. So, I dont think there is 
sufficient information to show the electrics are faulty, or the certificate was issued incorrectly.
UKI has asked Mr H to provide a professional report to show the electrical safety certificate 
was incorrect. If Mr H still feels there is an issue, it would be fair and reasonable for him to 
supply a professional report for UKI to consider, as at this stage I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to substantiate Mr Hs concerns here.
Refusal to renew
Mr H complained that UKI had decided it wouldnt renew his insurance policy going forward. 
UKI has provided much comment on this point to explain why it decided not to offer renewal 
to Mr H. So, I dont know why it decided not to offer cover, whether this is in line with what it 
would do in respect of other policyholders in similar circumstances. Or whether it considered 
the ABI guidance on continuation of cover  to which UKI are a signatory. But Mr H has told 
this service that he has found insurance elsewhere, and I havent seen this has had any real 
effect on Mr H. So, I dont intend of requiring UKI to do anything else in this respect.
Compensation
I do however consider it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to provide Mr H with £150 
compensation. As our investigator noted, Mr Hs claim has experienced issues with its 
progression, and its accepted that several areas of work carried out by UKIs contractors 
failed or were overlooked. And I can appreciate the distress and inconvenience this caused 
to Mr H. I think £150 fairly recognises the trouble and upset Mr H experienced in needing to 
pursue these issues with UKI, when they should have been dealt with correctly in the first 
place.
UKI agreed to this figure following our investigators opinion. If UKI has provided this to Mr H 
as yet, it should now do so.
Putting things right
Given the above, Im intending on requiring UKI to do the below:
UKI should provide a cash settlement for the following works to be completed, 
including materials and labour. The cash settlement must be based on market rates, 
rather than any favorable rates UKI may get with its contractors. 
1)Rear wall - Demolish and rebuild 
2)Rear gatepost  Reset post and adjust locks to ensure they work3)Rear porch roof  Lap joints to be formed and rainwater captured into gutters and 
downpipes
4)Half landing between first and second floors  cracks raked out, filled in and area 
redecorated. Removal of the carpet and landing boards and ensure trimmers are 
properly connected to the external wall and stair flights
5)Conservatory  Where the first crack is, the de-bonded plaster to be removed and 
made good. And where the second crack is, the crack should be raked out, filled and 
redecorated.
6)Kitchen  Mr H to purchase a replacement kitchen post and plinths of natural wood 
for around the kitchen and dining areas and arrange for these to be painted and 
fitted. 
UKI should pay Mr H VAT on the above works, on receipt of evidence from Mr H that he paid 
this.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced, 
as discussed above.
Reimburse Mr H for 50% of the cost of report he obtained from the chartered 
surveyor in November 2022. In addition to this, UKI should pay 8% interest on this 
amount, from the date Mr H paid for this report to the date of eventual settlement, 
less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customers requires UKI to deduct 
tax from this interest, UKI should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted, if they ask for one. 
UKI didnt provide anything new evidence or information in response to the provisional 
decision. Mr H responded to the provisional decision and made a couple of points. He said 
the kitchen wood had gotten worse still. And he wouldnt mind UKI doing the work itself, but 
his choice would be to have a particular contactor do the work, that lived around the corner 
from his property. 
Mr H also said that in relation to the downstairs WC, the radiator wasnt turned off, but just 
hadnt come on because it wasnt cold enough. Mr H had said he had asked UKI whether it 
wanted the radiator turned on, who said it didnt. 
Lastly, Mr H said he hadnt chosen the hallway tiles, but rather send a link to UKI saying the 
tiles looked like the right thing. But he was told by UKI that they would make sure the tiles 
were correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, that alters my 
findings on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as 
that in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Mr H raised some further points  which I have commented on below.
Mr H has provided further detail about the radiator in the WC. But, Im satisfied this doesnt 
change the overall outcome in relation to the claimed for damage in the downstairs WC. I 
wont repeat what was said in the provisional decision  this is shown above. Except to say 
that UKI has provided a fair explanation of why the claimed for work in the bathroom isnt part of subsidence damage  such as the explanation that the external work carried out 
wasnt near the WC. And, Mr H hasnt provided anything that firmly evidences damage 
caused by subsidence damage in this room. So, Im not requiring UKI to do anything 
differently in respect of the WC. 
In terms of the hallway tiles  I have considered Mr Hs further point. But that doesnt alter 
my decision in relation to this area. I still remain of the decision that UKIs position is fair. It 
has said it will cover the cost of the supply of the tiles, and if the overall costs increase in 
respect of VAT or import charges it will ask for documentation and assess this. And has said 
it will review the tiles at a later date. I am satisfied thats fair  given there isnt any evidence 
of a problem with the tiles at this stage.
Mr H said the kitchen wood has gotten worse. Ive upheld this element of the complaint, as 
detailed in my provisional decision  and require UKI to carry out Mr Hs experts 
recommendation to resolve the problem, which was to purchase a replacement kitchen post 
and plinths of natural wood for around the kitchen and dining areas and arrange for these to 
be painted and fitted. So, I dont have anything further to add here. 
Lastly, Mr H has noted that he would be happy to have UKI complete the necessary 
outstanding works. But that his choice of builder would be the one local to him. In my 
provisional decision I detailed why I considered a cash settlement would be the fair and 
reasonable way to resolve the outstanding issues noted as upheld in my provisional 
decision. I havent seen anything which changes my thoughts in this respect. So, my 
decision remains the same in that regard too.
 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require UK 
Insurance Limited to do the below:
UKI should provide a cash settlement for the following works to be completed, 
including materials and labour. The cash settlement must be based on market rates, 
rather than any favorable rates UKI may get with its contractors. 
1) Rear wall - Demolish and rebuild 
2) Rear gatepost  Reset post and adjust locks to ensure they work
3) Rear porch roof  Lap joints to be formed and rainwater captured into gutters and 
downpipes
4) Half landing between first and second floors  cracks raked out, filled in and area 
redecorated. Removal of the carpet and landing boards and ensure trimmers are 
properly connected to the external wall and stair flights
5) Conservatory  Where the first crack is, the de-bonded plaster to be removed and 
made good. And where the second crack is, the crack should be raked out, filled and 
redecorated.
6) Kitchen  Mr H to purchase a replacement kitchen post and plinths of natural wood 
for around the kitchen and dining areas and arrange for these to be painted and 
fitted. 
UKI should pay Mr H VAT on the above works, on receipt of evidence from Mr H that he paid 
this.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced, 
as discussed above.
Reimburse Mr H for 50% of the cost of report he obtained from the chartered surveyor in November 2022. In addition to this, UKI should pay 8% interest on this 
amount, from the date Mr H paid for this report to the date of eventual settlement, 
less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customers requires UKI to deduct 
tax from this interest, UKI should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman