DRN-3124410
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
took too long to deal with its business interruption insurance claim and changed their mind 
about whether the claim was covered. 
Mr L, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. E claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. 
Hiscox initially turned down Es claim but decided to reconsider it after the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. 
Hiscox then had a number of conversations with E where they said the policy would provide 
cover. Hiscox also paid E a £2,500 interim payment due to Es financial difficulties. 
However, on 7 July 2021, Hiscox let E know that its claim might not be covered as they 
didnt think the insured premises shown on Es policy schedule had been required to close. 
Following a review, Hiscox turned down Es claim.
E complained to Hiscox about the time they had taken to deal with the claim and that they 
had changed their mind. Hiscox said they were entitled to turn down the claim as it wasnt 
covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. However, they accepted they had 
provided incorrect information and their service hadnt been to the level expected. For these 
reasons, they paid E £1,000 compensation in addition to the £2,500 they had previously paid 
and didnt seek to recover. 
E complained to our service about the time Hiscox had taken to deal with its claim and that 
they had changed their minds about covering the claim. 
Hiscox said the Declarations on the Supreme Court judgment werent published until July 
2021 and this was material as they wanted to ensure they had the benefit of considering 
these before providing a final outcome to their policyholders. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but thought Hiscox had done enough to 
compensate for the unnecessary inconvenience they caused. 
E provided a detailed response to our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has also complained about its claim being declined by Hiscox. That is being dealt with 
separately and in this decision I am only considering Es complaint about the time taken 
by Hiscox to deal with Es claim and about incorrect information being provided. E has also 
said that Hiscox misrepresented or mis-sold the policy. If E remains unhappy with how the 
policy was sold that would need to be raised as a separate complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about the impact that the Covid-19 pandemic has had on E and Mr L. 
However, I think Hiscox have done enough to compensate for any errors. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that until July 2021 Hiscox led E to believe that its claim would be covered, 
which turned out not to be the case. However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this, I need to consider the impact of Hiscoxs error on E. 
E has provided details of the considerable financial impact that its suffered. However, from 
the information Ive seen, the financial impact has resulted from the claim being declined, 
rather than from Hiscox providing incorrect information about the claim or not providing an 
answer on the claim sooner. 
I appreciate the upset and frustration Mr L has experienced, particularly in believing Es 
claim would be paid. However, E is the eligible complainant in this complaint and therefore I 
can only consider the impact of Hiscoxs error on E, a limited company and not on Mr L 
personally. 
Its clear that Hiscoxs error caused E unnecessary inconvenience as it needed to supply 
detailed information for its claim, and I think its fair and reasonable that Hiscox compensates 
E for this. Im mindful that Hiscox has already paid E £1,000 compensation, in addition to the 
£2,500 they incorrectly paid. This is more than I would have required Hiscox to pay in 
compensation and therefore Im not going to require Hiscox to do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that the £1,000 Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has paid E, in 
addition to the £2,500 they paid in error, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
therefore dont require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman