DRN-4452467
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Yorkshire Building Societys (YBS) amendments to its general terms 
and conditions, and its lack of explanation for the changes it has made. 
What happened
Mrs A said YBS advised her of its new terms and conditions by email on 20 September 
2022, effective from 28 November 2022 and as a customer she took a close interest. She 
asked YBS about the changes, but said it hasnt provided a satisfactory answer to her 
questions, particularly regarding Section 5 and 7 of its new terms.  
In summary, Mrs A is concerned about amendments to YBSs terms that dont show her 
account will be protected up to £85,000. She said YBSs confusing response gave her no 
confidence that her money would be safe and returned to her in full, were YBS to fail. And 
she is concerned that YBS has added clauses about how it can close an account or restrict 
transactions where we reasonably believe our financial stability may be at risk, such as 
actual or potentially abnormal levels of withdrawals or deposits, with reasons. 
Mrs A complained after a call with YBS and YBS sent two written responses. Mrs A said 
neither her calls to YBS or its responses addressed or allayed her concerns. Mrs A referred 
her complaint to our service.
In its first response to Mrs As complaint in November 2022, YBS said it changed its terms to 
make them a bit clearer and simpler to read, but hadnt added terms regarding closing an 
account or restricting transactions. YBS then compared the old terms to the current ones to 
show the similarities and confirmed that Mrs As account is protected up to £85,000. 
YBS wrote to Mrs A again and said it had sent its General Terms and Conditions, Product 
Factsheet, FSCS Sheet, Charges Sheet, and Society Rules. YBS explained that it can 
change its terms without an explanation, and customers have the option to accept them and 
remain a YBS member or decline and close their account, which it said Mrs A had done. 
YBS said its changes about the closure of an account and the account funds, is to protect 
YBS and members, and could be done under the old terms but is now more explicit. The 
question was a specialist query and YBS said it took time to get the right outcome for her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said YBS had sufficiently 
explained its reasons for the amendments to its terms and their applicability. He said YBS 
intended the terms to be simpler and easier to understand and he thought they were better 
spread out. The investigator said YBSs agent had read the terms to Mrs A for comparison. 
He said having reviewed both versions of the terms Section 5 and 7 are direct interpretations 
of Section 18 and 37 of the old terms and YBS hadnt introduced anything new, or unlawful.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with this and requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A would like to know why YBS has amended the content of Section 5 and 7 of its terms, 
and in what exact circumstances they apply. She wants to know if all deposits will be safe, 
guaranteed and returnable in full to the account holder and where in the terms this is 
provided for, in particular guarantees of returning all monies if an account closed for any 
reason.
It is not for us to give a rationale for YBSs terms, but to see if it has treated Mrs A fairly in 
the circumstances of her complaint. YBS has clear authority to amend the terms and sent 
out a notice of important changes to its terms to all of its customers. The notice sets out the 
changes and explains them and says the purpose is to make them easier and simpler to 
read. 
Having looked at the previous and new version of YBSs terms and conditions, I have found 
the latter to be easier to follow and more accessible through clearer presentation. I agree 
with the investigator that the new version includes easy-to-understand tables, and the terms 
are simpler to navigate and to understand. 
In its calls with Mrs A, YBSs agent attempted to answer her questions about the terms, and 
compared the old terms to the current ones to show the similarities. Mrs A didnt agree with 
the explanations provided and wanted further information. I can see that in its letters to Mrs 
A YBS has attempted to provide further rationale for its terms and has explained the limited 
nature of the changes, including to Section 5 and 7. And YBS has confirmed that customer 
accounts, including hers, are protected up to £85,000.
I have looked at YBSs two written responses to Mrs A and the calls between them. I think 
YBS has made best efforts to explain its terms to Mrs A and answer her questions. I am 
sorry to see that she remains concerned about the implications of the terms, but I havent 
found any reason to ask YBS to do anything further about this. And I havent found any 
reason to suggest that YBS has provided Mrs A with poor service in her pursuit of 
information. 
I can see that Mrs A has been genuinely worried about why the changes have been made 
and the safety of monies deposited. The savings market is very open and Im sure Mrs A has 
realised that her dissatisfaction with YBSs amended terms and conditions and its 
explanation means that she is free to place her savings with another bank. 
YBS is regulated by Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Any concerns on how it conducts its 
business can be brought to FCAs attention, although the FCA wont consider individual 
complaints as that is our role.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman