DRN-3894634
The complaint
V complains Bank of Scotland plc provided a poor service and caused delays when the
business was transferred.
What happened
V is a limited company and is represented by Mr D and Mr C in this complaint. As Mr D is the
main director involved, I will mainly refer to him in my decision.
The investigator set out the background to this complaint in detail, so I wont repeat it again
here. Instead, Ill provide a summary of the key points.
In October 2021, due to the passing of the sole director of V, Mr D and Mr C took over the
business. BoS informed Mr D and Mr C that in order for them to manage the business
account a mandate variation form would need to be submitted. Due to paperwork issues the
relevant documentation was completed in early November 2021.
Due to the delays they experienced, V raised a complaint with BoS. The concerns were
looked into and BoS explained it couldnt take instructions from Mr D as he wasnt named on
any mandate held by the bank. It also explained that as the business was still active it was
obliged to ensure payments connected to the business  such as standing orders to
suppliers were met. It did however accept that there had been a delay in processing the
mandate for the business account and they had received poor service. BoS offered V £80 in
recognition of this.
BoS has also paid £52 to V after Mr D had a lengthy phone call with BoS about the account
issues. V was also given £30 as a recognition of the poor service, and £62.44 of accrued
interest and charges were waived as a gesture of goodwill. It also offered £80 for the general
service issues V experienced.
Mr D was dissatisfied with BoSs overall response. Mr D explained that the poor service had
resulted in delays, which has now left the business in a difficult financial situation. The
complaint was referred to our service, and an investigator upheld the complaint in part. They
explained there had been unnecessary delays and recommended BoS pay V £314.65 to
cover the cost of fees and direct debits that shouldve been cancelled in the period where
there was an avoidable delay. The investigator also recommended BoS pay an additional
£300 to V for the reputational damage and poor service it provided. This comprised of £220
for reputational damage to V and an additional £80 for the mandate delays V experienced.
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators review, the complaint has been referred to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2023. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching
a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the
informal nature of our service.
It may also help to explain that in considering this complaint and the impact of any failings by
BoS, I can only consider these in relation to V as a limited company. Thats because V is the
eligible complainant that has a relevant relationship with BoS. While Ive considered all that
Mr D and Mr C have said, I cant consider any impact to them as individuals.
Account mandate variation delays
Although Mr C and Mr D were both listed as directors for V, BoS required them to complete
mandate variation forms so they could operate Vs business account. I see Mr D didnt think
this shouldve been necessary, but BoS has its own set of requirements regarding account
mandates. These requirements are outlined in the account terms and conditions which
explain that BoS will only act on instructions given in line with the authority on the account.
The authority essentially details who has permission to give instructions to BoS, and in Vs
case Mr C and Mr D were not named on the authority in place. BoS required them to be
added on, which the terms state require the completion of relevant forms provided by BoS
and their return. I understand the need for these forms to be completed has caused issues,
which I will go on to address, but I think BoSs requirements were reasonable as ultimately it
was just seeking to make sure that it was processing payments correctly for V.
Mr D asked BoS to cancel direct debits and standing orders from the business account, as
they wanted to review the payments. BoS explained this could only be done once the
necessary variation forms were completed. Mr D says he submitted the forms on 11 October
2021, however BoS has no trace of these forms being submitted and given the timeline of
events I do not think its feasible for the forms to have been submitted on this date. I say this
because Mr C informed BoS of the passing of the sole director of V on 13 October 2021, and
prior to this there was no communication between Mr D and BoS about the business account
for V.
What is clear from the timeline of events is that BoS received the completed forms on 21
October. But its explained that it didnt review the forms as it should have. It took Mr D
contacting BoS on 4 November to prompt it to look at the forms and, when it did, it noticed
that the forms hadnt been completed in the way it needed.
I think BoS shouldve done more at this stage. I can see there is conflicting information about
the timescales for processing mandates. BoS says that its internal timescales for processing
these variation forms changed from 5 days to 29 days. But I cant see any evidence of this
change in timescales, or it being communicated to account holders. I also note the account
terms of conditions state that BoS should be given four clear business days to process a
request to change authority on the account. Following the initial delay, Mr C and Mr D
completed new forms and submitted them on 8 November 2021. These forms were
processed promptly and they were able to operate the account by 10 November 2021.
In its submissions to our service BoS accepted there had been an eight-day delay in
processing the mandate variation forms. The investigator endorsed this and found the
variation shouldve been put in place by 2 November 2021. Based on my review events I
also think there has been an avoidable eight-day delay and the changes should have come
into effect on 2 November 2021. I say this because had BoS reviewed the forms promptly
and in line with its internal timescales it wouldve noted that the forms were not completedcorrectly. If it had informed Mr C and Mr D of this in a timely manner, they wouldve been
able to correct the issues and resubmit the forms. This wouldve allowed BoS to review them
again and add them to the account by 2 November 2021.
Assessing the impact of this delay is challenging and I appreciate Mr D says the impact has
been significant. BoS offered V £80 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the
delays. The investigator recommended BoS do more and compensate V with £315.65 for
charges and direct debits that werent cancelled.
Mr D did not think BoSs offer went far enough, and also thought the investigators
recommendation was lacking. Mr D says he intended to stop all payments from the business
account by 12 October 2021. Mr D says the delays meant he could not review the payments,
pay employees and generally review the health of the business. I acknowledge Mr Ds
points, and I can see direct debits and standing orders were reviewed, and some cancelled
once he had the necessary mandate to operate the business account. But I dont think V
needs to be compensated to the level outlined by the investigator or Mr D.
Given the circumstances, when Mr D became a director of V, there was always going to be a
transition period whilst the necessary business changes were made. I think Mr Ds aspiration
of stopping all payments from the business on 12 October 2021 was never going to be
possible given what Ive said elsewhere about BoSs requirements to enable him to do this.
The initial forms werent completed correctly, and I can see when Mr D and Mr C went to the
local branch to complete paperwork the submission was incomplete, but this was noted on
the day and corrected. So the process hasnt been smooth and BoS offered £80 in
recognition of this. I dont think this amount adequately reflects the impact on V, which was
left in limbo for longer than necessary. I think a total amount of £150 is a fairer reflection of
the inconvenience caused, so I think BoS should increase its offer by £70 to reach this
amount.
Customer service
Mr D has raised many concerns about the service received from BoS. He explains the poor
communication, delays and general lack of support and professionalism has had a
significant impact on V. There has been a great deal of contact between BoS and V. I can
see when BoS was first informed of the passing of the sole director of V there were multiple
phone calls about the next steps for the business. I have considered all of the contact
between V and BoS to decide what impact this has had on the V and the inconvenience
caused.
As noted above, much of the contact was around the mandate variation forms. After listening
to the available calls its clear that this was not a straightforward process for Mr D and Mr C. I
wouldve expected a more pro-active approach from the bereavement team, given the
sensitive circumstances. Mr D had numerous calls with BoS and I can see that there have
been a number of lengthy calls, and he has dealt with multiple call handlers and
departments. It seems calls were often transferred to different teams, or individuals and
there was a lack of continuity in the service provided. I accept that some of the contact
wouldve been necessary. However, I think the poor service provided by BoS compounded
some of the issues V was facing.
BoS has offered £80 for the poor service it provided. I can also see that after one particularly
long phone call BoS paid V £52 in call costs and made a £30 distress and inconvenience
payment. £62.44 of accrued unauthorised overdraft interest and retuned direct debit fees
were also waived as a goodwill gesture. When assessing compensation, I need to think
about the impact all the issues had on V. I think the time and effort spent trying to deal with
BoS meant V wasnt able to move forward and focus on its business. Looking at thecircumstances I think an additional £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused is fair
compensation for V.
Vs business account
Mr D says V is in a difficult financial position due to the mishandling of its account affairs by
BoS. I acknowledge BoSs poor service had some impact on V, but I dont agree that it was
to the extent outlined by Mr D.
I say this because the statements provided show that V was using its overdraft since June
2021. To assist during the Covid pandemic it also received a government backed bounce
back loan. However, the business seems to have still faced difficulties, and I can see that
BoS invited V to negotiate terms of repaying its debt. I understand taking on a struggling
business would not have been easy for Mr D, and the added inconvenience of dealing with
problems with BoS wouldve made matters harder. However, other than the impact already
outlined above, I dont think BoS is responsible for the overall state of Vs financial position.
Rather this seems to be due to a number of factors, including circumstances around the
Covid pandemic and wider economic factors.
Compensation for damage to reputation
The investigator awarded V £220 in recognition of the damage BoSs actions had on Vs
reputation within the business community.
Looking at the evidence provided, I dont this this recommendation is a fair reflection of the
impact on V. Whilst I agree the business has been inconvenienced, I havent seen enough
evidence to persuade me BoSs mistakes resulted in a lasting reputational impact on V. I
dont underestimate the challenges of dealing with clients and staff during the transition of
the business over to Mr D. The lack of account access wouldve compounded issues.
However, deciding awards for reputational damage is seldom straight forward as this is such
a subjective issue and so as an impartial and evidence-based service  wed need to see
some evidence of the reputational impact here. The evidence provided by Mr D
predominantly focuses on the state of Vs finances and the longstanding issues it faced. But
I havent seen specific evidence which connects BoSs failings to Vs reputation. So, I am not
currently persuaded this compensation is fair or necessary.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr D was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be
asking BoS to take any further steps than already outlined to compensate V.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS replied to the provisional decision, explaining it accepted my recommendations. Mr D 
responded on behalf of V explaining his reasons for disagreeing with the findings within the 
provisional decision. 
Mr D explained that he is not complaining about having to submit paperwork to be added to 
Vs account, rather his complaint is that there was poor service and repeated delays which 
had an adverse impact on V. Mr D reiterated his negative experience with the bereavement 
team and the disjointed service received from BoS. The additional information he has 
provided from the accountant for V demonstrates that the relationship between V and BoS 
had essentially broken down. BoS has acknowledged that there were certain areas where it couldve done better, and it took some steps to recognise this by awarding compensation. 
But as explained in my provisional decision I didnt think the amounts offered went far 
enough. I recommended an additional £170 be paid to V for delays and poor service. Mr D 
doesnt think this goes far enough and the compensation due should be in the thousands. 
Reaching an award for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues 
involved are subjective by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult 
to determine. In this case I must consider the impact on V, not Mr D. And I think the 
additional amounts I recommended, alongside the amounts already offered by BoS, 
recognises that the service and communication from BoS fell short of what was necessary in 
the circumstances. 
The further submissions provided by Mr D refer to is attempts to close V, and his inability to 
do this due to loans held by V. This point is outside the scope of this complaint and decision, 
so I wont be commenting on this issue. I can see Mr D would like a meeting to be set up 
between a senior BoS member of staff and himself, but this isnt something our service 
would be involved with facilitating. 
I am sorry to hear of the health issue Mr D has referred to in his submissions. I dont 
underestimate the impact taking on V and dealing with the business has had on him as I can 
see it has presented many challenges. Mr D has also referred to his credit file being 
negatively affected. However, my role in this decision is to assess the impact BoSs 
shortcomings have had on V, and more specifically in relation to the points outlined in my 
provisional decision. So I wont be able to consider these points when reaching my award for 
distress and inconvenience. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for V in respect of this complaint. However, it can 
reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if it wishes to do so. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should compensate V by taking the following steps:
Account mandate variation delays  pay V an additional £70 on top of the £80 it has 
already offered for the delays and inconvenience V experienced. This is a total of 
£150.
Customer service  BoS should pay an additional £100 on top of the £80 it has 
already offered for the poor and inconsistent service it provided to V. This is a total of 
£180.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman