DRN-3927965
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr G is represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In July 2013, Mr G was contacted by a third party to talk about purchasing a solar panel 
system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being visited by a salesman, Mr G 
decided to purchase the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In December 2021 the CMC sent a letter to Shawbrook, on Mr Gs behalf, alleging various 
misrepresentations by the supplier of the panels, amounting to Mr G being told that the 
system would pay for itself when it didnt. It asked for compensation under section 75 of the 
Act.
Shawbrook issued a final response letter in which it said that the claim was time-barred 
under the Limitation Act 1980, since Mr G had waited more than six years before bringing his 
claim. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr G brought this complaint to our service, 
represented by the CMC. But our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that 
Shawbrook had been entitled to rely on the limitation period.
The CMC disagreed with that decision, and argued that the applicable limitation period was 
not six years from the point of sale, but rather three years from the date that Mr G had 
known that he had cause to bring a claim, that period ending later than the six year period. 
The CMC also argued that the system was too complicated for Mr G to have realised that it 
was failing to pay for itself.
The adjudicator referred this case for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
It is not in dispute that the six year time limit began in 2013 and expired in 2019, before Mr G 
first raised this matter with Shawbrook. So I have considered the three year time limit.
As Ive said, the three year time limit begins when Mr G first had the knowledge required for 
bringing an action (as well as having the right to bring the action), if that period would expire 
later than the usual six-year period. For this purpose, section 14A(10) of the Limitation Act 
says that a persons knowledge includes knowledge which he might reasonably have been 
expected to acquire  from facts observable or ascertainable by him. That would include 
facts presented to him in electricity bills before and after the sale, and the statements for hi 
feed-in tariff (FIT) payments, being the income earned by the system. So time runs not 
from when Mr G actually realised he had something to complain about, but from when he 
reasonably could have known that.
I agree that Mr G would not have been aware that a misrepresentation had been made (if 
there was one) in 2013. But I think that after three years, Mr G could have noticed if he was 
having to pay more in loan repayments than the system was saving him. So Im satisfied that 
he had the knowledge required to bring a claim within the first three years of the sale, and so 
this limitation period would not apply.
I accept that Mr G didnt know about limitation periods, but I dont think that is relevant. If that 
could be relied on to avoid a limitation period, then it would make the Limitation Act entirely 
ineffective. So I am satisfied that Shawbrook was entitled to rely on its defence under the 
Limitation Act.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman