DRN-3714619
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) settled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr Es vehicle was stolen, so he made a claim. Admiral then said the vehicle 
was a total loss and offered Mr E a cash settlement to reflect its market value. They 
calculated this amount by considering the values suggested by two motor trade guides. They 
also applied a 20% deduction to reflect the fact Mr Es vehicle was previously declared a 
category N write off. However, as a gesture of goodwill they later agreed to lower this 
deduction to 10%. The £350 policy excess was also deducted from the settlement figure.
After Mr E referred the complaint to our service Admiral increased their settlement offer 
slightly. They said they would like to pay Mr E an extra £49.05 with 8% simple interest as 
their previous offer wasnt based on the correct average figure suggested by the motor trade 
guides. To reflect the distress and inconvenience this oversight had caused Mr E they also 
offered him £100 compensation.
Mr E said he was happy with Admirals revised offer and the decision to base the valuation 
on the average of the two motor trade guides. However, he couldnt accept the fact they'd 
applied a 10% reduction. He didnt think they should apply a deduction at all. 
Our investigator thought Admirals revised settlement offer was fair. So, Ive now considered 
the complaint afresh. 
Mr E has raised a concern that his policy was mis-sold. However, as that complaint is being 
considered separately, I havent addressed it here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Admiral have now offered Mr E a fair and reasonable 
settlement for his claim. Ill now explain why.
The starting point for complaints of this nature is the policy terms and conditions. In relation 
to cash settlements, the terms say the most Admiral will pay is the market value of the 
vehicle. Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Mr E has accepted it was reasonable for Admiral to base the settlement offer on the average 
value suggested by two motor trade guides totalling £23,858.50. As this point isnt in dispute, 
Ive no reason to comment on it any further, other than to say Im also satisfied this amount 
is fair having also checked a third guide. 
Mr E has said Admiral shouldnt apply a 10% reduction to the above amount as the policy 
terms dont allow for this. I respectfully disagree. The above policy term explains that Admiral 
will take the condition of Mr Es vehicle into consideration when establishing a fair market 
value. As Mr Es vehicle was a category N write off, this suggests it would have been less 
desirable to potential buyers and this in turn would have reasonably impacted the price. So, I 
dont think Admiral would have been able to offer Mr E a fair value for his vehicle, unless 
they took this important factor about its condition into consideration. 
Admiral have reduced the 20% deduction to 10%. Im satisfied this percentage deduction is 
reasonable and £21,472.65 is therefore a fair market value for Mr Es vehicle. As Mr E has 
already received £21,073.60, this means Admiral should pay him the difference excluding 
the excess.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to settle the claim in 
the way they've now offered. They should therefore pay Mr E:
£49.05 with 8% simple interest from 2 December 2021 to the date of settlement.* 
£100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Admiral Insurance Company considers they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr E how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the 
redress set out above, as they've already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman