DRN-3958472
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how her insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim 
under her home insurance policy for a burglary at her property. 
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In November 2021 there was a burglary at Mrs Ps property, which Mrs P saw happen on a 
camera. She called the police and set off an alarm. The burglars removed a panel from the 
exterior porch door and forced entry to the interior door. As well as damage to the two doors, 
the burglars took jewellery and some cash. The police attended and arranged for the 
property to be temporarily secured. 
Mrs P contacted Ageas to report the burglary, the damage caused and the stolen jewellery 
and cash. They advised her to obtain quotes for the repair of the doors. She obtained quotes 
from two local firms, both saying the damage meant the doors would need to be replaced 
(rather than repaired). Mrs P also told Ageas shed prefer to replace the two doors with one, 
more secure door. Ageas then arranged for a specialist door and glazing firm (M) to attend 
the property and assess the damage and the necessary work. M produced an estimate for 
the cost of a like-for-like repair to the exterior door and replacement interior door (£1,596  
less the policy excess of £300). 
Given her concern at being in a property with temporary securing of the doors, Mrs P 
arranged for a security company to install an alarm system and monitor the property. She 
was also unhappy at Ms offer being based on repair and like-for-like replacement, as she 
didnt think this would provide the necessary security to prevent another burglary. So, she 
engaged a local firm to fit a single replacement door (at a cost of £2,441).
As Mrs P had fitted a new, single door fitted, Ageas offered the sum calculated by M as a 
cash settlement. However, Mrs P wasnt happy at the offer (and that it didnt cover the cost 
of a lintel shed been told was necessary, nor associated hall decoration}. She was also 
unhappy at the time being taken to assess her claim for the theft of the jewellery and cash. 
So, she complained to Ageas.
In their final response, Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. They said their settlement offer 
was final and on a like-for-like basis. While they understood Mrs Ps wish to change the 
doors at her property (to improve security) their responsibility was to put Mrs P in the 
position she had been before the incident. They added, having discussed the lintel issue with 
M, their view was it wasnt required (so no associated decoration was required either). 
Regarding Mrs Ps claim for stolen jewellery, Ageas said the claim was on hold pending their 
receiving a list of stolen items together with proof of ownership of the items. Once received, 
their jewellery specialist (L) would validate the claim. 
Mrs P then complained to this service. She said there was a need for increased security at 
her property due to the time taken to agree the repair work needed for the door. Living in 
what she felt was an insecure property had affected her peace of mind, causing her anxiety 
and distress. She felt the stress caused by the burglary was made worse by what she felt 
was Ageass attitude. She wanted them to pay the claims shed made for the door, stolen 
cash and hall decoration without further delay. She also wanted them to contribute towards 
the additional security shed installed. She also wanted them to settle her claim for jewellery, 
based on the detailed valuation shed provided (and to include compensation for its increase 
in value since she made her claim).
Following Mrs Ps complaint to this service, Ageas considered the claim for the theft of her 
jewellery and cash. They subsequently settled the former element of claim at £13,000 (being 
the limit for such items under the policy) and paid £500 for the stolen cash (also the limit for 
stolen cash under the policy).
Our investigator initially partly upheld the complaint, concluding Ageas hadnt acted 
reasonably. While he thought Ageas shouldnt cover the costs of upgrade work (to the door) 
he thought Ageas should pay £250 compensation for delays in settling the claim for damage 
to the doors and for a lack of communication with Mrs P. He also thought Ageas should pay 
simple interest on the payment they made under the policy for the stolen cash (£500 being 
the limit for stolen cash under the policy). Regarding the issue of whether Ageas should 
cover the cost of a lintel, he thought as Ageas had said that wasnt needed then it wouldnt 
be fair for Ageas to cover the cost (as it would be considered an upgrade  as there wasnt 
previously a lintel in place) and any associated decoration costs. On the claim for jewellery, 
he thought there hadnt been delays in assessing this element of the claim, as there wasnt 
evidence Mrs P had previously supplied a list of items to Ageas.
Mrs P challenged our investigators initial view, saying shed sent Ageas a schedule of 
jewellery items in February 2022 (providing copies of emails and the valuation from her 
jeweller in support). She also disagreed that the lintel shouldnt be covered under the claim. 
She also thought she should be covered for the full cost of the door (as compensation for the 
distress shed suffered, in addition to the £250 recommended by the investigator). Ageas 
responded to say they had paid Mrs P the £250 compensation recommended by our 
investigator, as well as simple interest on the settled claims for the stolen jewellery and cash. 
They also offered to increase the compensation from £250 to £400.
Our investigator then issued a second view, concluding Ageass increased compensation of 
£400, as well as simple interest on the settlements for the stolen jewellery and cash was fair. 
He also thought it was fair for Ageas not to cover the cost of replacement door, the lintel 
(and associated decoration costs) or for an additional alarm and security system Mrs P paid 
for following the burglary.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators second view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Specifically, she didnt accept the view that the lintel wasnt required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say Ive considered carefully what Mrs P has told us about her circumstances 
and her vulnerability. I appreciate this will have added to her distress at having her property 
burgled, which is inherently a very traumatic and stressful event. I can also appreciate that 
the experience has made her very anxious and that she would want to take measures to 
secure her home and reduce the risk of a future burglary. Ive borne this in mind when 
deciding whether  as is my role - Ageas have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs P.There are several aspects to Mrs Ps complaint. Some of which have been agreed as 
part of this services consideration of the complaint. But Ive considered each aspect 
in turn for completeness.
The first issue Ive considered is the value of the cash settlement Ageas have offered 
for the repair of the damage caused by the burglary. Mrs P wants Ageas to cover the 
cost of the [single] replacement door she had fitted (which she thinks necessary to 
provide adequate security and mitigate the risk of a similar burglary in the future). 
Ageas say the terms of the policy mean their liability is limited to a like-for-like repair 
and replacement of the damaged doors. It isnt to cover the cost of enhanced security 
from the replacement door Mrs P had fitted. 
Having considered both views carefully, Ive concluded Ageas have acted fairly in 
making a cash settlement based on the estimated cost (to them) of a like-for-like 
repair and replacement. I know this will be very disappointing to Mrs P, so Ill explain 
why Ive come to this conclusion.
Ive first considered what the policy terms and conditions provide for in the event of 
damage and loss from theft. First, under the heading How your claim will be settled 
theres the following wording:
We will settle your claim by either:
Replacing, repairing or rebuilding items (depending on which will be most cost 
effective); or
Paying you their cash equivalent, based on what it would cost us to replace 
the items(s)
We will decide which option is most appropriate. However, we will not pay more than 
the limit shown in the policy schedule/statement of fact or policy booklet.
The policy goes on to say:
If your property is only partly damaged, we will pay for it to be repaired. If you 
choose not to have the repair done (because you decide you want to replace this 
item with something else, for example), we will pay for one of the following, 
whichever is the lowest:
The amount by which the property has gone down in value as a result of the 
damage, or
The estimated costs of the repair.
Taking these policy terms together, I think its clear Ageas have acted in line with 
them in offering a cash settlement based on what it would have cost them to repair 
the two doors. The second policy terms cover the circumstances in Mrs Ps case. 
That is, she decided to replace both doors with one (more secure) door. While I can 
appreciate why she did that, to improve the security of her property) the policy doesnt 
oblige Ageas to cover the cost (which was greater than their cash settlement). In 
effect, Ageas have made a cash settlement offer that would have put Mrs P back in 
the situation she was before the incident. That shes decided  for understandable 
reasons  to improve the security of her property amounts to betterment (that is, she 
is in a better position than before the incident). Its an accepted principle of insurance 
policies that they dont cover betterment.Taking these points into account, Ive concluded Ageas acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mrs P in basing their cash settlement offer on the estimated cost (to them) of 
repairing the damage to the two doors.
On the specific point about the lintel (and associated decoration) Mrs P says it was 
necessary and therefore should be covered as part of the claim. Ageas say it wasnt 
necessary (and wasnt there before the incident). Ive considered both views carefully, 
but on balance Im persuaded by Ageass view. If there wasnt a lintel in place before 
the incident, then it wouldnt be reasonable for Ageas to cover the cost of installing 
one (even setting aside the question of whether one was necessary). Covering this 
cost of fitting something that wasnt previously in place would amount to an 
improvement (or betterment). And as Ive noted above, its an accepted principle of 
insurance that insurers dont cover betterment. For that reason, Ive also concluded 
that any associated decoration costs arising from the fitting of a lintel would similarly 
not be covered.
On the issue of the additional security arrangements Mrs P took out following the 
burglary, I can appreciate Mrs P feeling anxious following the burglary and having a 
temporary securing of her damaged door. But I dont think it reasonable for Ageas to 
cover the cost. They reimbursed the cost of making the property temporarily secure, 
which is what I would expect and is reasonable. Whilst understandable, it was Mrs Ps 
choice to take out the additional alarm and security systems. I dont think its 
reasonable for Ageas to cover the cost (or part of it).
On the claims for the stolen jewellery and cash, Ive noted that both claims were 
subsequently settled by Ageas after Mrs P complained to this service. In both cases, 
Ageas settled the claim at the limit for the respective items under the policy (£13,000 
and £500 respectively). As these were clearly set out in the policy schedule, then Ive 
concluded Ageas have acted fairly. I also think its reasonable that theyve added 
simple interest (at a rate of 8%) which is in line with our approach as a service. On 
the specific point raised by Mrs P about compensating her for the increase in value of 
her jewellery, as Ageas have paid out the maximum sum insured under the policy, 
then I wont be asking them to do anything further in this respect.
On the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience, considering all the 
circumstances of the case  including the impact on Mrs P given her vulnerability  I 
think the increased sum of £400 is fair and reasonable. Given my conclusion Ageas 
acted fairly in offering the cash settlement for damage to the doors, then it wouldnt be 
appropriate to add the cost of the replacement door Mrs P had fitted to the amount for 
compensation (the £250 originally recommended by our investigator).
Having reached these conclusions on what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case, Ive noted Ageas have settled all elements at the sums 
mentioned in this decision. That being the case, then I wont be requiring them to 
make any further payments or take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman