DRN-4298799
The complaint
Mr U complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim under his 
HomeCare insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr U made a claim on his HomeCare policy in November 2022 when he experienced 
an electrical problem in his kitchen. 
A British Gas engineer attended and said the works required to repair the issue 
werent covered under the policy and that Mr U would need to obtain a separate 
quote for this. 
Mr U reviewed the policy document and noted it said electrical repairs were included. 
He says he tried to raise the issue with British Gas. Having voiced his concerns 
about British Gas service on its social media page, one of its agents contacted him 
to discuss the matter further. 
The agent said he would look into things and told Mr U he could expect contact from 
British Gas in the next few days. But this didnt happen. 
In April 2023, Mr U contacted this Service to complain about British Gas handling of 
his claim and complaint. Around the same time, he contacted British Gas to arrange 
for a quote to be obtained for the electrical work. 
Our involvement prompted British Gas to look into Mr Us concerns. It confirmed the 
previous engineer had provided incorrect information by saying the electrical repair 
wasnt covered under the policy. To recognise its handling of Mr Us claim had fallen 
short and that it hadnt dealt with his complaint as it should, British Gas paid £200 
compensation. 
An Investigator considered things and decided the compensation was fair. But Mr U 
disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that British Gas engineer incorrectly told Mr U the electrical repair 
wasnt covered under the policy. It seems, having read the policy document himself, 
that Mr U realised soon after that the engineers advice was wrong. And so, he tried 
to contact British Gas to sort the matter.
Mr U says because he had difficulty contacting British Gas by phone and via its 
online chat service he posted his complaint to its social media page  which British 
Gas responded to. British Gas has explained that following this interaction a task was 
created for one of its teams to investigate Mr Us concerns, but it wasnt actioned. 
And its paid £200 to recognise the difficulties this caused. So, I need to consider 
whether £200 suitably reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr U experienced. 
But before I do, I need to explain that Im only considering the circumstances of this 
complaint and the impact on Mr U. Mr Us strength of feeling is clear  and whilst hes 
provided information regarding other consumers experiences with British Gas, this 
isnt something Id consider when deciding what I consider to be fair compensation. 
I accept being without full use of his kitchen for a period of approximately six months 
was an inconvenience for Mr U  and that this inconvenience was heightened during 
the festive season. And understandably, having not had his complaint dealt with 
appropriately compounded his feelings of frustration and disappointment with British 
Gas. 
But I must also consider whether Mr U could have taken reasonable steps to 
minimise the impact on him. Whilst hes said he repeatedly made his dissatisfaction 
known - by posting on British Gas social media page  Im not persuaded these 
posts brought to British Gas attention that he had an unresolved complaint. And as 
Mr U didnt contact British Gas by phone to chase up his complaint  which I consider 
to be a reasonable course of action - Im not persuaded his actions on social media 
alone demonstrate he took reasonable steps to mitigate his situation.
To sum up, I agree British Gas let Mr U down when the engineer gave incorrect 
advice and it subsequently failed to deal with his complaint, but because Im satisfied 
there was a reasonable way for Mr U to have sorted the problem at an earlier date 
and minimise the impact on him, I dont consider it fair and reasonable to ask British 
Gas to compensate him beyond what it already has. It follows that Im satisfied £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im aware British Gas has already issued a cheque to Mr U for this amount, but he 
hasnt cashed it. If Mr U doesnt cash the cheque before it expires, British Gas will 
need to send him another cheque or pay the compensation by bank transfer.  
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr U £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that British Gas must pay Mr U £200 compensation. If Mr U doesnt cash 
the cheque before it expires, British Gas must issue another cheque or pay by bank transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman