DRN-3128319
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he voluntarily terminated a finance agreement with Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), he wasnt told there 
would be a balance to pay on the account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of Mr Hs credit agreement explained that he would need to pay 50% of the 
amounts payable under the agreement before he could voluntarily terminate (VT) it.
Mr H hadnt paid that amount by the time of the VT, so the balance was due under the terms 
of the agreement.
But when Mr H called BPF in April 2021 to query whether he could voluntarily terminate the 
agreement he wasnt given accurate information and wasnt told hed need to pay the 
balance due to bring payments up to 50%.
BPF wrote to Mr H after that call and provided the voluntary termination agreement that Mr H 
subsequently signed. The letter explained the terms of the voluntary termination, it said:
Important Information about your liability
 If you have not done so already, you are required to pay 50% of the total amount payable 
under your loan agreement
The total amount payable by you in order to voluntarily terminate (including any arrears if 
they are due) is £5775.11 (We will let you know after the vehicle has been sold if there is 
anything additional you need to pay).
Ive thought about whether the call Mr H had with the agent in April means that he was 
misled and that BPF have therefore been unreasonable when asking for payment in line with 
the terms of the VT. Mr H was certainly not given accurate information on that call, but I think 
the voluntary termination document BPF subsequently sent to him did make the situation 
clear. It explained exactly what was due, on the front page and under a section in bold that 
explained the information was important. I think its reasonable to expect Mr H to have read 
that before he signed the VT and I note the requirement for the 50% payment was also set 
out in the original finance agreement. 
In those circumstances Im afraid I cant find that BPF have been unreasonable when 
pursuing the balance on the agreement.
I can see that BPF have made mistakes here. They provided unclear information when Mr H 
enquired about the VT and they didnt explain the balance of the account in June when he 
called. BPF have offered £200 compensation in respect of those errors and, in the 
circumstances, Im not asking them to pay any more.
  
Putting things right
BPF need to pay Mr H £200, less anything theyve already paid, in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience their actions have caused.
Id also expect them to show forbearance here and to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H for the balance on his account if Mr H would struggle to pay it immediately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
pay Mr H £200 compensation, less anything theyve already paid, to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience caused;
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H if he cannot pay the balance of the 
account immediately.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman