The complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Aviva Insurance 
Limited, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to Aviva in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr M was sold the policy when he took out a hire purchase agreement in 2001. The cost of 
the PPI was added onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. 
It covered Mr M in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ms credit agreement had a section for optional insurance, offering a choice of 
insurances to take or turn down. It said that PPI was voluntary, and was not a condition of 
the agreement. Its recorded that PPI was added. Its cost was set out separately to the cost 
of the hire purchase  the policy was not part and parcel of the lending. Mr M then signed 
the agreement to confirm what was on it. Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr M was misled into having PPI 
here. So I think its most likely that Aviva made Mr M aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand if he no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
Aviva didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him 
or ask about his alternative cover. They did have to give Mr M clear information about the 
PPI, so he could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
The cost of the policy was set out on the agreement  including the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium, and the total cost. So it wouldve been clear how much the PPI 
would cost Mr M if he kept the policy for its full term.
Its not clear how flexible the policys cancellation terms were, or whether Mr M wouldve got 
a proportional refund if hed cancelled it early. But I havent seen anything to suggest he 
DRN-1773277thought hed repay the agreement early. So I dont think better information about the 
cancellation terms wouldve stopped him buying the PPI.
Lastly, its possible that Aviva didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So again, I dont think 
this wouldve affected his decision to take out PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman