DRN-2848050
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) havent provided a fair settlement 
following a claim on his motor policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ill only summarise them 
briefly here. Mr H is represented by a family member but for simplicity Ill only refer to Mr H in 
this decision.
In November 2020 Mr H made a claim as his car was damaged by another vehicle 
whilst it was parked. The other vehicle didnt stop and hasnt been traced.
After some discussion around options to repair the car it was written off and Aviva 
offered a cash settlement based on a valuation of £2,127 less the policy excess.
Mr H didnt agree with this valuation and complained to Aviva.
Aviva felt the valuation was fair so Mr H brought his complaint to this service and 
provided advertisements for similar cars.
Our investigator consulted a number of motor trade guides to see how these 
compared to Avivas valuation. And looked at the advertisements Mr H provided.
Based on everything shes seen she felt Avivas valuation was fair.
Mr H asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and for the same reasons, so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
This is a straightforward complaint relating to a disagreement on the valuation of a 
car. 
My role is to decide if the valuation is fair and reasonable, and using motor trade 
guides can be persuasive in determining the market value as they are based on 
extensive research of likely selling prices.  
Ive looked at 3 motor trade guides and the average value is £1,959 so Im satisfied 
Avivas valuation of £ 2,127 is fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered the advertisements Mr H has provided but I give more weight to the 
industry guides which take account of mileage, condition and specification of the 
vehicle when assessing the likely price youd have to pay for a comparable car. 
Advertisements indicate an asking price and the ones provided by Mr H are for cars 
with different mileage or specifications.
I can understand how upsetting this situation is for Mr H, especially given his car was parked 
at the time the damage occurred and I dont doubt his car was in good condition. But I have 
to base my decision on the evidence available.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman