DRN-2757725
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his bank account without notice. He 
also says staff in his local branch had a poor attitude and the poor treatment he received 
was racially motivated. 
What happened
Mr P had a bank account with Nationwide.
On the 21 July 2020 Nationwide restricted Mr Ps access to his bank account and on the 
22 July 2020 the bank sent a letter notifying Mr P that his account would be closed with 
immediate effect. They explained that Mr P acted in an abusive and threatening manner. 
Mr Ps accounts were all closed on the 3 August 2020. 
In deciding to close Mr Ps accounts the bank referred to a phone call which took place on 
the 13 July 2020, and both a phone call and branch visit on the 17 July 2020. 
Mr P complained to Nationwide about the decision. The bank considered Mr Ps complaint 
but they didnt uphold it. They explained Mr P had breached the terms and conditions of his 
account and theyd acted fairly in closing it. 
Mr P didnt accept the banks decision. And complained to our service. He also complained to 
Nationwide about a personal loan. This point is being considered in a separate complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but they didnt uphold it. In summary 
they were satisfied on balance the bank hadnt discriminated against Mr P and acted fairly in 
immediately closing his accounts. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. And in response said:
The bank closed his account because he said he was going to report them for mis-
selling of a personal loan. 
He hasnt been provided with CCTV evidence to show what happened in branch  
and Nationwide should make this available to him. 
He wasnt threatening to the staff in branch, Nationwide staff were abusive to him. 
The call recordings supplied by Nationwide could have been altered. 
Because Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion, its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the closure of Mr Ps accounts and whether the bank acted fairly. A bank is 
entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, 
before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps bank account state that there are certain circumstances 
in which Nationwide can immediately close a customers account. Nationwide have 
explained that they applied the following term when closing Mr Ps account:
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances.
This includes:
 
d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff.
Nationwide have explained that they closed Mr Ps account because of abusive and 
threatening behaviour which took place over the phone on two occasions and one occasion 
in branch. Ive listened to the two calls Mr P had with Nationwide staff on the 13 July 2020 
and 17 July 2020. Im satisfied that during the first call Mr Ps voice was raised and he made 
a number of challenging statements  these include Do you understand me? You cant 
afford to waste my time and Youve just dropped yourself into this hat  the last in 
reference to people Mr P was planning to take legal action against. I can understand why the 
member of staff Mr P was speaking to found the call difficult and was upset. On the second 
call Im satisfied that Mr P again acted in a challenging manner with comments such as 
Youve not listening, refusing to accept that the advisor wouldnt put him through to the 
complaints team and saying he will visit the branch and cause trouble. 
Nationwide havent been able to provide a copy of the CCTV recording for the incident in 
branch on the 17 July 2020  however Ive seen copies of statements made by Nationwide 
employees. And Mr Ps version of events. Theres clearly a disagreement between what the 
Nationwide employees said happened and Mr P. So Ive considered what both parties have 
said.
Theres some variation in the statements provided by Nationwide staff however the accounts 
are consistent in saying that Mr P walked into the branch, was advised they were closing 
soon, confronted one of the employees and acted in an aggressive manner, whilst refusing 
to leave. In contrast Mr P argues it was the same member of staff who accused him of 
aggression who shouted and acted abusively towards him. Ive seen a copy of the branch 
opening times on the 17 July 2020  this shows the branch was due to close at 3pm which 
was just after Mr P arrived at the branch. Based on this I think its likely Mr P was informed of 
this, and was asked to leave due to the branch closing soon. 
Mr Ps unhappy that Nationwide havent provided a copy of the CCTV from the branch. 
Nationwide have explained that they only hold CCTV evidence for 30 days after an incident 
 however Ive seen evidence from Mr P that he requested a copy of this within the required 
time frame. So Im surprised this wasnt provided by the bank, or viewed as part of their 
initial investigation. However, on balance, considering that Mr P stated on the phone call 
earlier in the day he would visit the branch and cause trouble and the branch closing at that 
time indicating a likelihood that the branch staff probably were asking Mr P to leave I think 
its more likely than not he did act in an aggressive manner. 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide have fairly applied the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
accounts. And Im satisfied they did. Firstly Im satisfied that Mr Ps behaviour over the 
phone was both abusive and threatening. I appreciate Mr Ps argued that the call recordings 
could have been altered  and I cant completely rule out this possibility. But our service 
works on the balance of probabilities  and Ive no reason to think this is the case. I think 
after the second phone call, on the 17 July 2020, Nationwide acted fairly in deciding to issue a warning letter to Mr P. The third incident occurred on the same day, and for the reasons 
Ive outlined above I think its likely Mr P again acted aggressively. 
Mr P also argues that Nationwide closed his account because he wanted to report them for 
the miss-selling of a loan. Ive considered Mr Ps point, but Ive seen no evidence this is the 
case. And overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to apply an immediate closure 
to Mr Ps account for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Mr P says he feels Nationwide has discriminated against him given the problems hes 
experienced. I can understand Mr P is frustrated by Nationwides actions, however he hasnt 
been specific in explaining what made him feel hed been discriminated against because of 
his race.  
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr P and I appreciate the closure of his accounts 
caused him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers 
banking services to and who they no longer want to do business with. As long as they take 
this decision fairly and reasonably. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to 
decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Mr Ps case Nationwide 
exercised its commercial freedom fairly and reasonably when it decided to close his 
accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman