DRN-1418832
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way esure Insurance Limited has handled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy and with its valuation of his car.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his esure policy. He was told his car was being written off and that he 
could either retain the salvage or be paid the value of his car at the time of loss. But he says 
when he got to the garage he found the car had been stripped down and he was told it 
wouldnt be rebuilt if he retained it. He says he later found out the garage could rebuild it if 
hed wanted to retain it. 
Mr Rs unhappy with the way he was dealt with and how the claim was handled. In summary 
he says there were communication issues with the garage and esure, and he wasnt given 
the chance of retaining his car. Hes also unhappy that the car was moved before being 
auctioned and as a result he lost his hands free set which had cost him £200. He also thinks 
esures valuation of the car is too low.
Esure said in its final response that the trade guides show a fair value for Mr Rs car was 
between £2,780 and £3,398. And it had deducted £629 as the car was a previous total loss 
when reaching its valuation of £2,434.
Our investigator felt this complaint should be partly upheld. He said:
Mr R says he bought the car for £3,700 about two years before the incident. But 
esure has to pay Mr R the market value of his car at the time of loss. Its said it has 
taken account of the valuations in four of the main trade guides and also deducted 
20% as the car was previously a right off. Its valuation of £2,434 is a fair offer for the 
car.
Mr R was initially given incorrect information by the garage that they wouldnt rebuild 
the car. But that didnt wholly cause him to choose to accept a total loss payment 
instead of retaining it. He was also later given the option of a rebuild but declined.  
Even so the way things were dealt with wouldve been confusing and distressing for 
him.
Its difficult to determine if Mr R was given the opportunity to collect his hands free kit 
and there isnt a reasonable explanation of why the garage didnt take it out. But Mr R 
didnt get the chance to remove it before the car was taken away. So, he has lost out 
due to esures actions.
Overall esures offer of £2,434 for the car is fair. But it couldve provided a better 
service and he was given some incorrect information. This caused some distress. To 
put things right esure should pay Mr R £150 to cover the lost hands free kit and for 
any additional trouble and upset he has been caused.
Esure has accepted the investigators recommendations. 
Mr R remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He still thinks the 
valuation is too low and says he wasnt able to retain his car because of what the garage did.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr Rs policy says esure will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his car at the 
time of loss. That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for or the 
cost to him of actually replacing it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various trade guides and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced including adverts. But I place most weight on the values in the 
main trade guides as theyre based on likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, 
which allow a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices are by their very nature averages and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
esures offer. 
In this case its clear esures starting valuation of £3,063 is squarely within the range of the 
four main trade guide valuations. 
I also think it fair for esure to take into account the effect the car having previously been a 
total loss may have on the saleability of the car and its value. I think a 20% deduction of 
£629 for that is reasonable. 
Taking everything into account, although Im aware of Mr Rs frustration, I dont think I can 
reasonably require esure to increase its net valuation above £2,434 or pay any more to him.
Its clear that the claim couldve been handled better in some respects. But I agree with the 
investigator that the various communications in this case suggest Mr R didnt decide to not 
retain the car as a result solely of what the garage or esure did. And he in fact refused the 
option of having the car rebuilt. Although I have no doubt Mr R was caused some confusion 
by what happened the communications clearly suggest he lost interest in retaining the car 
and agreed to accept a total loss payment. It also appears Mr R didnt get the chance to 
retain his hands free set. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for esure to pay Mr R something towards the lost hands free 
set and some compensation for any additional distress and inconvenience he experienced 
as a result of its poor handling of matters at times. The investigator recommended £150 for 
this and esure has agreed to pay this amount. Taking everything into account, including the 
level of awards we make, I think thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr R £150 
compensation.
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.* If HM Revenue & Customs requires esure to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr 
R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman