DRN-3491643
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says they 
should have looked at her financial circumstances in more detail before agreeing to the loan 
as she couldnt afford it.
 
What happened
Miss W applied in branch for a loan of £12,000 from Barclays in October 2014. 
The loan was approved over 60 months with monthly repayments of £301.86 at an interest 
rate of 18.9%.
When she applied for the loan, Barclays say they checked Miss Ws income, expenditure 
and Credit Reference Agency data and that the loan was affordable. 
Miss W says she was a student at the time of the application, working part time with an 
existing car loan. She says she was talked into the loan by the banks adviser, who told her 
that the loan would be affordable if she used it to pay off her existing car loan.
 
By October 2015 Miss W had missed three payments and the debt was passed to debt 
collectors in 2017.
Following a review of the loan and how it had treated customers in financial difficulty 
Barclays took the loan back from the debt collectors in 2020 and refunded some of the fees 
and charges. 
 
Miss W maintained that she should never have been offered the loan and said that her credit 
rating and mental health have been affected. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ws complaint and thought that Barclays had lent irresponsibly. 
She recommended that Barclays should refund all the interest and charges on the loan and 
remove any negative information from Miss Ws credit file. 
Barclays partially accepted the investigators view and agreed to the refund, but they 
disagreed with the recommendation to remove adverse credit information because they felt 
that Miss W had misled them about her income when she took out the loan.  So, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this I have to look at what checks the bank carried out when it made the 
decision to approve the lending and consider whether those checks were proportionate and 
in accordance with the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 5.2 (the rules in force in 
October 2014). That involves looking at what information was available to the lender at the 
time, and whether based on the information, they should have done further checks to help 
them understand if the lending was sustainable. 
Barclays have said that Miss W had self-declared income of £800 with £393 as expenditure, 
leaving a monthly disposable income of £407. They say that the credit check showed no 
other unsecured lending, and so the loan repayments of £301 affordable. 
However, Miss W held a current account with Barclays which meant that they had 
information already in their possession about her income and expenditure  which would 
have easily shown them what her actual income was. Miss Ws current account statements 
for the period April to October 2014 show that she had much less than £800 earnings per 
month. Her part time earnings for the three months prior to the loan were:
July £299.82
August £394.42
September £366.03
So, I think that Barclays should have known that Miss Ws income was not £800 per month 
when they were considering whether to lend to her. 
With regard to the car loan, Miss W says that Barclays were aware that she had an 
unsecured car loan, as the banks adviser had suggested using the new loan to pay the car 
loan off, which would make it affordable. Barclays have also noted that Miss W did in fact 
pay off her car loan of £7748.56 with the loan. So, I think its likely that Barclays knew about 
the car loan before the lending decision was made. Unfortunately, the adviser is no longer 
employed and so we have no evidence about what was discussed at the meeting, but Im 
satisfied from Miss Ws testimony that it was likely to have been discussed.   
And so, Im satisfied that Barclays had sufficient information readily available about Miss Ws 
financial situation, but that they didnt use that information or properly consider the adverse 
impact that the loan would have on Miss Ws financial position. If they had done so, they 
would have seen that the loan wasnt sustainable, and I think it is unlikely they would have 
lent to her.   
I note that Barclays have accepted this in any event, and have already agreed to refund all 
interest, fees and charges. They have also offered to restructure the remaining debt into an 
interest free loan. However, they object to removing the adverse credit data. 
Barclays said that Miss W misled them on her application by stating her income was £800 
per month when it was only £350, and she didnt declare her circumstances had changed 
even though she had only taken out car finance weeks before. They said that as their loan 
was used to satisfy the previous loan on which no payments had been made, it is likely that 
Miss W would have defaulted in any event, and that she also made another loan application 
after the Barclays one. They consider that the adverse credit information should remain in 
place as an accurate reflection of Miss Ws approach to lending. 
I disagree with this. As I have said above I think it is likely that Barclays knew about the car 
loan and even though the declared income on the form is £800, they knew that not to be true 
at the time the loan was approved. Barclays made the decision to approve the loan despite 
being in possession of information that it wasnt affordable, and so any consequences that 
flow from that error, such as the negative credit markers should be removed. I dont think 
that it is reasonable to say that the negative markers should stay because she may have 
defaulted on the previous loan  my role is to make decisions on what has happened, not 
what might have happened. As the loan balance is still outstanding, and Barclays have agreed to come to a payment 
arrangement in respect of the balance, the loan itself will still be on Miss Ws credit record for 
other prospective lenders to see, and so her credit record will fairly reflect her financial 
position even if the negative markers are removed. 
Putting things right
Barclays should:
Refund all interest, fees and charges that have been applied to the loan account as 
agreed in their letter to us dated 11 May 2022. 
If this results in Miss W having paid more than the outstanding balance, any 
overpayment should be refunded to Miss W along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement
If there is still a balance outstanding, this should be restructured into an interest free 
loan as already agreed by Barclays, and they should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss W. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ws credit file relating to the 
loan. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and directing them to put 
things right as outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman