DRN-4269409
The complaint
Mr D complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Be Wiser) cancelled 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr D took out a motor insurance policy which was arranged by Be Wiser. 
The policy was cancelled around four weeks later, and Mr D was told he needed to pay an 
outstanding balance of £161. 
Mr D complained to Be Wiser about the cancellation of the policy. He didnt think he should 
have to pay the outstanding balance and was unhappy that hed been contacted by a debt 
collection agency.
Be Wiser said it had cancelled the policy in line with its terms and the outstanding balance 
was calculated correctly. However, it felt that Mr D could have been dealt with more 
empathetically over the phone by a member of its staff. It said it would waive the outstanding 
balance and ask the debt collection agency not to contact Mr D again. It also paid Mr D £50. 
This was to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt 
think his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Be Wiser was wrong to cancel the 
policy and appoint a debt collection agency for the balance. She thought Be Wisers decision 
to waive outstanding costs and pay Mr D £50 was fair compensation for the service hed 
received.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said Be Wiser had the information it 
needed to check his licence. He also commented that it hadnt told him there was a 
cancellation fee and it was waiving charges that didnt exist. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
We or your insurance intermediary may cancel this insurance by giving you 7 days notice in 
writing to your last known address or email address. Subject to no non-recoverable claims 
having been made (or likely to be made), you will be charged on a daily pro rata basis for the 
time you have had on cover. We only exercise this right if there is a good reason for doing 
so, including non-payment of premium, not providing documents we request
The telematics supplementary terms and conditions say:
Your insurer or Be Wiser may cancel this policy where there is a valid reason for doing so, 
by sending at least seven days written notice to your e-mail address or alternative 
appropriate durable medium setting out the reason for cancellation
I can see that Be Wiser sent Mr D an email saying that information was outstanding on 4 
November 2022. It said it needed to see a copy of the front and back of Mr Ds driving 
licence. It also needed to see his online driving record. Be Wiser gave Mr D instructions on 
how to get his driving licence summary. It told him he would see a unique access code which 
he would need to send to Be Wiser with a photo card copy of his licence. Be Wiser asked   
Mr D to send this information to it within the next seven days to prevent the cancellation of 
his policy. 
On 8 November, Mr D emailed a copy of the front and back of his photo card driving licence 
to Be Wiser. He also sent a screenshot of the government website which said the page 
could not be found and said he would try again. On 11 November, Mr D sent Be Wiser a 
further email saying he wasnt having any luck viewing his drivers information on the 
website. And on 14 November, he sent a screenshot of the government website showing his 
driving licence details.
Be Wisers records show it sent Mr D an email on 14 November telling him he could obtain a 
driving licence summary instantly and free of charge from the DVLA by following the 
instructions provided on their website. Alternatively, he could share his licence information 
with Be Wiser by providing the last eight digits of his driving licence number along with a 
licence check code which could be generated from the same website. Be Wiser said this 
information needed to be sent before midnight to prevent cancellation of Mr Ds policy.
Be Wiser says Mr Ds policy was cancelled on 16 November because it didnt receive the 
driving licence summary.
I appreciate Mr D had some difficulty getting information from the DVLA website. However, 
he was able to provide a screenshot from it on 14 November. This showed his name, date of 
birth, gender, address and some licence details. However, there was also a link to penalties 
and disqualification and get your check code. So, I dont think this showed everything Be 
Wiser needed to see. 
Mr D has commented that Be Wiser could have checked the information itself. But I dont 
think it would have been able to do so without being supplied with the check code it had 
asked for.
Im satisfied from the above that Mr Ds policy was cancelled in line with the policys terms 
and conditions. 
I can see that Be Wiser sent Mr D an email on 28 November warning him that his file would 
be passed to a debt collection agency if he didnt pay the outstanding balance on his 
account. As Mr D doesnt appear to have paid the balance, I cant say it was unfair for Be 
Wiser to have gone ahead and referred the matter to the debt collection agency.
Mr D says Be Wiser didnt advise him of its £50 cancellation fee. I havent been provided 
with a copy of Be Wisers Terms of Business or any other evidence to show it made Mr D 
aware of this when he took out the policy. However, Be Wiser has waived this fee. So, Im 
not persuaded Mr D has lost out in the event that he wasnt told about it.
Be Wiser has acknowledged that a member of its staff demonstrated a lack of empathy 
towards Mr D over the phone. However, its waived Mr Ds outstanding balance and has paid 
him £50 compensation. I think this sufficiently recognises any distress and inconvenience he may have experienced as a result of the poor service he received. So, while I appreciate my 
answer will be disappointing for Mr D, I dont require Be Wiser to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman