DRN-2955767
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave poor service on her calls to 
them.
What happened
On 28 May 2021, Miss K called Barclays to raise a dispute about a payment shed made to 
an online retailer. She wanted to dispute half of £32.87. The call lasted 39 minutes. In the 
next few days she made further calls about her experience on that call.
Miss K complained that shed been held too long on the call on 28 May 2021. This had 
caused her stress and anxiety  she was in poor health following an accident and had 
arthritis in her wrist, so couldnt hold the phone for long period of time. On a subsequent call, 
the call handler agreed to pay call costs of £10, but then changed his mind. She asked for a 
compensation payment of £40 - £50.
Barclays said theyd not made any errors. The advisor on the call in question had to check 
the right process, which caused her to put Miss K on hold. On the matter of the £10 
payment, the call handler realised that in the call being referred to, it was Miss K who 
disconnected the call and so it wasnt fair to expect the call cost to be reimbursed. Barclays 
offered to set up a third-party access on Miss Ks account to help her in the future. But she 
would need to visit a branch to do this.
Miss K brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays had acted fairly. Hed 
listened to the calls. On 28 May 2021, it was fair that Miss K was put on hold while the 
advisor found out how to handle the disputed transaction  because it was for half the 
amount, which was unusual. On the matter of the £10 payment, he thought that because the 
call in question was disconnected by Mis K, Barclays shouldnt have to pay for the call costs. 
Barclays hadnt made any errors, and so he recommended that Miss Ks complaint wasnt 
upheld.
Miss K asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss K that Ive listened to all seven calls between her and Barclays during 
the period in question. During them, Miss K does say on many occasions that due to her 
accident, she was suffering from physical pain when on the calls, and I was sorry to hear 
that. But equally, I must say that I consider Barclays call handlers were patient, helpful and 
caring in the way they handled Miss Ks calls. In some way, that might have led to Miss K 
thinking that the calls were taking too long  but actually, I think Barclays felt that they 
needed to listen to Miss Ks points empathetically  which they did.
Looking at what happened on 28 May 2021  Miss K wanted to arrange to dispute half of a 
payment of £32.87 made to an online retailer. The call handler did say that because this was 
unusual, she would have to check out the correct procedure for that  so she went away and 
did that. She concluded the call by saying shed logged the dispute, and that a letter with full 
details about the dispute and how to proceed would be sent to Miss K. On that call, Miss K 
asked for compensation for the time spent on it, which was declined. I dont think Barclays 
made an error here  and while it was frustrating that the call took a long time, Barclays 
wanted to ensure they were processing Miss Ks claim in the right way.
On the issue of the payment of call costs of £10  the call handler agreed to refund Miss Ks 
call costs of a previous call, but then realised that that call had been disconnected by Miss K, 
so changed his mind. Ive listened to the previous call  on it Miss K was asking about 
another (different) refund to her account and then asks for the call recordings. Before this 
could be arranged, she disconnected the call. So, I think it was fair that Barclays didnt pay 
for that call.
I did observe that on several of the calls, Miss K asked for compensation for her calls made 
to her bank. I agree with Barclays that in these instances, Miss K chose to call them  and 
unless Barclays made mistakes or errors in dealing with what Miss K wanted, they shouldnt 
have to pay compensation or meet call costs. 
I note that Miss K has further said to us on 18 August 2021- that she spent 45 minutes on 
another call to Barclays  and this was also too long. She can raise this as a new complaint 
to Barclays if she wishes  but I would also say that again, unless Barclays have made a 
mistake on that call, then its unlikely that any compensation would be due to her. 
I can appreciate that Miss K was frustrated by her experiences with Barclays, but also I think 
they acted fairly and reasonably. And so  I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman