DRN-3712886
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him.
Background
In August 2021 and September 2021, Mr T received three payments of £500 and one 
payment of £900 into his account. The vast majority of these funds were immediately 
transferred into another bank account, with a different institution, in Mr Ts name. Barclays 
was subsequently notified that the payee of these funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
Barclays carried out a review and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ts 
account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr T subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. As Mr T remained dissatisfied, Mr T referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr T is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ts account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr T was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr T allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ts complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ts account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr T says that the funds he received were from a friend. He says that he was supposed to 
transfer the funds abroad as his friends mother was unwell. When he was asked to provide 
information such as conversations or messages to support his version of events, Mr T told 
our adjudicator that he no longer had this information but that he could provide the name, 
number and address of his friend who would corroborate what hed said.   
Ive thought about what Mr T has said. However, the implausibility of what hes told us 
makes it difficult for me to accept his version of events here. I say this because Mr T says 
that he accepted the funds to transfer them abroad to his friends sick mother but this doesnt 
explain why the majority of the funds were transferred to another of Mr Ts accounts with a 
different bank in the U.K. I would have expected all of the funds to have been transferred 
abroad had they been placed into Mr Ts account for his stated purpose. 
Furthermore, Im also concerned at Mr Ts inability to provide anything at all to support his 
version of events. I say this while especially mindful that Barclays asked Mr T to prove his 
entitlement to the funds in question a matter of days after they entered into his account. So 
Mr T has been on notice, for some time, that the information and evidence hes been asked 
for was required to address the concerns about the funds that entered into his account. I 
dont think that I could place much weight on any statement made, by an individual whose 
identity this service is unable to verify, at this point  especially as I have to question why 
this friend wasnt prepared to make this statement in September 2021. 
Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of what 
Mr T has said. And when all of these unanswered questions are weighed against the fact 
that Barclays received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending the 
payments, stating that its customer had been a victim of fraud, I think that Barclays was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that these funds were fraudulent. 
Equally given the implausibility of Mr Ts version of events, Im also satisfied that Barclays 
was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr T was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for 
Barclays record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Ts account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account state 
Barclays could close an account, without providing notice, in certain circumstances. These 
included where it had reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) 
fraud against us or someone else. 
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Ts 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Mr Ts account in 
the way that it did. 
 
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr T and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr T  especially as I know Mr T is 
concerned about his credit rating and  ability to open another account. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has 
been recorded against him. Mr T might find that hes able to open an account with another 
bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or 
any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman