DRN-3314912
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unreasonably refused his critical 
illness claim. To resolve his complaint, he says the claim ought to be paid in full.  
What happened
Mr F is a member of his employers group critical illness scheme, operated by Aviva.  
He sadly became unwell in late 2020 after suffering with chest pain for a number of months. 
In early 2021, Mr F was referred for investigations with a consultant cardiologist. He was 
subsequently diagnosed with coronary artery disease for which he then required a coronary 
angioplasty in April 2021.  
In May 2021, Mr F made a claim to Aviva under the coronary angioplasty  to 2 or more 
coronary arteries definition in the policy wording. The call handler told Mr F that if, as 
suspected, he only had one artery operated on during the angioplasty, a claim would likely 
be refused. 
After receipt of Mr Fs medical information from his GP, Aviva told Mr F that it could not pay 
a claim. This was because he had undergone surgery and stenting on his left main stem 
coronary artery alone. Though he had moderate stenosis in his right coronary artery, this 
was not part of his surgery and only one stent was fitted. Aviva also explained that even if 
two stents were fitted during his angioplasty, the blockage in Mr Fs right coronary artery 
wouldnt have met the 70% threshold required by the policy terms anyhow.   
Mr F complained. He said he was unhappy that Aviva hadnt written to either of his treating 
consultants, only the GP. Aviva said it had considered cardiology letters in Mr Fs medical 
records, but nonetheless agreed to seek further medical evidence from a consultant.  
Mr F complained. In November 2021, Aviva told him it would not uphold the complaint. It 
said that at all stages of his claim, Mr F had been told what the policy terms required under 
the coronary angioplasty definition. And despite having sufficient evidence, it had written to 
one of his consultants to reassure Mr F that its decision was correct. 
It also explained that the policy is very clear in explaining how Aviva will only pay claims 
when the specific criteria for the condition or operation being claimed for are met. On 
occasion, some members of their schemes undergo an operation covered by the policy, but 
the medical circumstances do not meet the specific policy definition for that particular 
operation  and that is what had happened with Mr F. 
Mr F lodged his complaint with this service. He said that he felt the policy definition for 
angioplasty was too narrow and didnt take into account the position or size of the stent 
used.
Our investigator said that he felt Aviva had formed a reasonable view on the medical 
evidence. Mr F had not undergone angioplasty to correct 70% (or more) narrowing or 
blockage of two or more arteries, only one. And therefore Aviva was not required to pay a 
claim as the policy definition had not been satisfied.  
Mr F said he disagreed. He said, in summary:
after speaking with his cardiologist about the position of the stent and how the 
narrowing of the left main stem was impacting all arteries on that side, he strongly 
feels this should be taken into account;
his cardiologist was of the same view, and encouraged him to pursue the claim;
he feels that each complaint should be looked at individually against policy wordings;
he was also advised that had an emergency event happened it would have been 
extremely difficult to treat, due to the position of the narrowing given how it impacted 
the other arteries;
he said that, in his view, matters do not get much more critical than possible lack of 
blood supply to his heart. 
Our investigator sympathised with Mr Fs position. She said she did not doubt the 
seriousness of the consequences if Mr Fs coronary artery disease had been left untreated. 
But, she could only assess the evidence against the policy wording in his specific policy  
and unfortunately the required definition had not been met in full. 
Mr F therefore asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Fs poor health and I recognise that he continues to suffer with 
symptoms following his surgery. Having reviewed all of the information carefully I do not 
believe this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion below. 
The correct position for this service to take is to assess a members claim against his or her 
group critical illness scheme policy wording for the condition or event being claimed. In Mr 
Fs case, this is:
Coronary angioplasty -to 2 or more coronary arteries
The undergoing of balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, laser treatment or stent 
insertion on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist to correct at least 70% narrowing 
or blockage of two or more coronary arteries as a single procedure.
As Mr Fs cover is provided under a group scheme where members join without the need for 
medical underwriting at the outset, the policy wording also goes on to list a number of related 
conditions and exclusions for the definition. I havent repeated the list here, as Aviva has 
confirmed it has not gone on to consider them.  
I know that Mr F underwent a serious type of surgery for the purpose of stenting following his 
coronary artery disease diagnosis. However, to satisfy the policy definition above, the 
surgery must be to correct blockages or narrowing worse than 70% for two or more arteries. 
Both parties recognise that Mr F does not meet this definition; only one stent was fitted to his 
left main stem coronary artery for severe stenosis. The diagnostic testing undertaken by his 
consultant showed moderate (50-69%) stenosis in his right coronary artery. 
I can see Mr F feels that some discretion could be applied to his claim, given the severity of 
his condition if left untreated. But, Mr Fs employers policy wording doesnt have the latitude to accept claims for different levels of severity or to disregard part of the wording. Certain 
types of personal critical illness policies and group schemes may have severity levels set out 
within them, but the scheme Mr F joined is not one of those types of policies. Even if it were, 
each severity level would still have a certain definition that must be met. 
Section 2 of the policy sets out that Aviva will pay benefit to a member of the scheme if the 
person suffers from one of a number of insured events (listed critical illnesses). That means 
the policy definition must be satisfied in full. I cannot therefore agree with Mr F that because 
he sadly had coronary artery disease which necessitated surgery that the definition is met in 
part, even if he has been very unwell. It has to meet the other thresholds of affecting two or 
more arteries to the specified level of severity. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions or procedures and not others in a 
critical illness policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because 
our service is not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness 
a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed event, because the cost 
would be inherently unaffordable for most people or businesses taking out the insurance. 
What critical illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the most 
common instances of severe illnesses and the most commonly occurring serious events.
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
What this service can determine is whether, in the circumstances, a business has been fair 
in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr F feels strongly about the matter. But in my 
view, the refusal of a claim for a condition or event which doesnt meet all of the key 
requirements within a specified policy term is a reasonable action for an insurer to take.
My final decision
I believe Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has dealt fairly with Mr Fs critical illness claim; I 
cannot ask it to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman