DRN-4415893
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Stellantis Financial Services UK 
Limited (SFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality and was mis sold to him.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with SFS. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
62,471 miles.
In February 2023 Mr S raised a complaint with SFS. He said hed noticed the clock flickering 
and that hed taken the car to a garage who had advised him that the clock had been re-set 
and that the recorded mileage was incorrect. Mr S said he thought this had been done with a 
mileage blocker device which had been illegally fitted to the car. He said the device had 
been removed and was in his possession.
SFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that a mileage blocker had 
been fitted to the car prior to the point of supply and no evidence that a mileage blocker was 
present now.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to reject the car 
and end the agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there wasnt enough evidence to 
persuade them that a mileage blocker had been fitted to the car and/or that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. The investigator said there was no evidence to suggest that there had 
been a misrepresentation by the supplying dealer.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wanted someone to inspect the car and look at the device.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr S was around 7 years old and had covered around 62,471 miles.  So, 
its reasonable to expect that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear, and that 
it was likely to require repairs sooner than. say, a brand new car.
Mr S has said that theres a fault with the car which makes it of unsatisfactory quality. 
Specifically, he says that the car was fitted with a mileage blocker, and that the mileage on 
the car has been tampered with.
Ive taken account of everything that Mr S has said about the mileage blocker. Hes said that 
a family friend who has knowledge of auto electronics found the device in the car. Mr S said 
that following this he obtained a vehicle check which showed a mileage discrepancy. Mr S 
has said that he is in possession of the device that his friend found. Hes concerned that the 
car has no value because of the mileage discrepancy. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first six 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its up to the business to put things right.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first six months of the point of supply, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of 
supply.
Mr S raised his complaint about the mileage blocker outside of the first six months of the 
point of supply. So  as Ive explained above- its up to Mr S to provide evidence to show that 
the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available evidence provided by Mr S. This includes what hes told this 
service. Ive also seen a photo of a motherboard, and some vehicle history information. 
The photo of the motherboard doesnt establish that theres a fault with the car, or that a 
mileage blocker device is/was fitted to the car. Even if the photo did persuade me that it was 
linked to the presence of a mileage blocker in some way, it doesnt establish that the mileage 
blocker was present at the point of supply. So, although Ive taken account of this evidence, 
it isnt enough  on its own  to establish that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied.
The vehicle history information shows the mileage of the car at various intervals. I can see 
that as of 20 September 2018 the mileage was 54,497, on 5 June 2019 the mileage was 
63,442, on 30 October 2020 it was 58,000 and on 19 April 2022 it was 63,021.
I agree with Mr S that there is a discrepancy with the mileage shown as of 30 October 2020. 
This is because the mileage recorded on that date was less than the mileage recorded on 5 
June 2019 by around 5000 miles.
Ive thought about whether this evidence is enough to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. However, I dont think it is. This is because the 
vehicle history information states that differences in records could be due to rounding up 
from different data sources and are not indicators of an issue..
Taking all the available evidence into account, there isnt enough to persuade me that the 
car has a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr S has said that he wants someone to inspect the car. As Ive said, its up to Mr S to 
provide evidence to support his case. I think Mr S has had a reasonable opportunity to 
arrange an inspection. As it stands, I havent been provided with an inspection report, so Ive 
not been able to consider this.
Ive gone on to consider Mr Ss complaint that the car was mis-sold to him because it had a 
mileage blocker fitted. 
In order to uphold this aspect of Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the supplying dealer made an untrue statement of fact about the car and that this induced Mr S 
to enter into the agreement.
Mr S has told this service that if hed known about the mileage blocker he wouldnt have 
purchased the car. However, hes also told this service that he doesnt think the supplying 
dealer knew that the mileage blocker was there.  So, it doesnt sound as if there were any 
discussions between Mr S and the supplying dealer about the mileage on the car. 
This is important because if Mr S had asked a specific question about the car, for instance, if 
there was a mileage blocker on it, or whether the mileage was genuine, and the dealership 
had answered and given him information which later turned out to be incorrect, then this 
might be evidence of a misrepresentation or a mis sale.  However, in this case I havent 
seen anything to suggest that a false statement of fact was made. So, Im unable to say that 
the car was misrepresented or mis sold to Mr S. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman