DRN-4459950
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has settled a claim she made 
on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key issues.
Mrs W is insured under a group private medical insurance policy. Her daughter, Miss W, is 
also insured under the policy. The policy includes outpatient cover up to an annual limit of 
£1000. The policy renews in January of each year.
In February 2023, Miss W saw a consultant, who recommended that she undergo blood 
tests. Mrs W called from the hospital to check whether Miss Ws tests would be covered. 
AXAs call handler said that it could authorise an initial consultation and diagnostics. So Miss 
W underwent blood tests. The total cost of the consultation and testing was £4294.94,
However, AXA only partly settled the invoice. It paid £610 of the total costs. Thats because 
taking into account other costs it had already settled, it had already paid up to the limit of 
£1000 for the 2023 policy year.
Mrs W was very unhappy with AXAs decision and she complained. She said AXAs call 
handler had told her that Miss Ws costs would be covered and that if shed known a limit 
would apply, shed have acted differently.
AXA agreed to settle £2500 of the total invoice as a gesture of goodwill. But it didnt agree 
that its call handler had given Mrs W incorrect or misleading information. And it stated that 
only a few weeks earlier, the outpatient limits had been clearly explained to Mrs W. So it 
maintained that Mrs W would be responsible for paying the claim shortfall.
Mrs W remained unhappy with AXAs position and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mrs Ws 
policy terms clearly set out the annual outpatient limit of £1000. And she noted that Mrs W 
had recently been reminded about the applicable policy limit. She didnt think AXAs call 
handler had misled Mrs W about the cover at the time of her call in February 2023. So she 
didnt think AXA needed to pay anything more.
Mrs W disagreed. In summary, she didnt think information shed been given previously in 
relation to different treatment was applicable to the circumstances of this claim. She said 
Miss W had had to switch consultants during the course of the claim and each time, Mrs W 
had checked what was authorised specifically for each consultant and treatment. She said 
shed relied upon being given accurate information by AXA. And on the day in question, she 
didnt think the call handler had specifically explained the relevant terms.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I think AXA has settled this claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst 
other things, the terms of this policy and the circumstances of Mrs Ws claim, to decide 
whether I think AXA treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the group 
contract with AXA. Page four of the contract includes a table of benefits, which sets out a list 
of the cover AXA provides, along with the applicable annual policy limits. I can see that this 
policy provides cover for specialist consultations and diagnostic tests up to a combined limit 
of £1000 per year. This limit resets at the beginning of each policy year.
In my view, AXAs terms make it clear that a combined limit of £1000 applies for specialist 
consultations and diagnostic tests. And so I think AXA was reasonably entitled to apply the 
limit to the circumstances of Mrs Ws claim. Its clear that the diagnostic tests Miss W 
underwent significantly exceeded the applicable annual limit. Therefore, I dont think AXA 
acted unfairly when it initially settled the invoice in line with the policy terms.
It's clear how strongly Mrs W feels that she was led to believe that the full costs would be 
covered. But having listened carefully to the call between Mrs W and AXAs call handler, I 
dont agree. The call handler correctly informed Mrs W that initial consultations and 
diagnostic tests were covered by the policy. There was no discussion about the potential 
costs of the tests Miss Ws consultant had proposed she undergo. And the call handler didnt 
suggest that AXA would pay all of the diagnostic testing costs, or that it would pay above the 
policy limit. So while the call handler didnt refer specifically to the applicable policy limits, I 
think they gave Mrs W accurate information about what the contract would cover.
And Ive borne in mind too that only around two and a half months earlier, Mrs W had 
spoken to AXA regarding Miss Ws treatment  even if it didnt relate to the same part of this 
claim. During the call, the call handler explained the £1000 limit and recommended that Mrs 
W check the costs of any proposed tests with the treating hospital, as diagnostics could be 
very expensive. The call handler put this in writing and specifically stated: once youve used 
up your out-patient entitlement in any membership year youll have to pay any further out-
patient treatments yourself. As such, I think AXA had already given Mrs W clear information 
about the applicable limit and the way the policy worked only a few weeks before her call of 
February 2023. 
Nonetheless, AXA agreed to step outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and 
paid £2500 of the total invoice. In my view, this was a very fair and reasonable step from 
AXA, especially given its actual liability under the policy terms.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mrs Ws position, as I appreciate there is still a shortfall 
balance to pay, I find that AXA has already settled this claim promptly, fairly and reasonably. 
And so it follows that Im not directing AXA to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman