DRN-4027562
The complaint
Ms M complains about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against her travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms M has travel insurance underwritten by AWP as a benefit of 
a bank account. Ms M booked a trip with her two daughters and their children. On          
7 February 2022 - the day of arrival - Ms M fell in the accommodation and hurt her wrist.  
She says that her wrist hurt and the swelling increased, so on 9 February 2022, Ms M 
got a taxi to the hospital and contacted AWP about a claim.
On 9 February 2022, the treating doctor said that Ms M had broken her radius bone and 
needed an operation. Ms M was very worried about having the operation as she is a 
carer for one of her daughters and is the only one who can manage her medical 
condition and also assists in looking after one of her grandchildren. AWP suggested that 
she could have the operation in the UK and Ms M agreed, as it meant that she could 
leave hospital and look after her daughter and grandchild. 
Ms M says that later on 9 February 2022, the treating doctor said that she could have the 
operation that afternoon and leave the hospital the following day  10 February 2022.  
Ms M says that she contacted AWP about that, but no one came back to her. As AWP 
hadnt authorised the operation, Ms M left the hospital on 10 February 2022, not having 
had the operation, in order to care for her daughter and granddaughter. She continued to 
contact AWP as she needed a fit to fly certificate. On 11 February 2022, AWP said that it 
was sending Ms M a fit to fly certificate and arranging a taxi to the airport. 
Ms M says that AWP shouldnt have suggested that she have the operation in the UK. 
She says that as she couldnt get the information she needed from AWP she stayed in 
hospital overnight unnecessarily. Ms M says that she could have had the operation on 
the afternoon of 9 February 2022 and been discharged on 10 February 2022 but as 
AWP didnt get back to her, she remained in pain. Ms M says that AWP didnt assist her 
and made mistakes. She says that she and her family didnt enjoy their holiday. Ms M 
wants AWP to reimburse her for the cost of the holiday and compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
AWP upheld Ms Ms complaint, apologised for the poor service shed received and 
offered her compensation of £100, later increased to £200. Ms M didnt think that was 
sufficient and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that AWP should pay 
Ms M compensation of £350 for distress and inconvenience arising out of its poor 
service. 
AWP agreed with the investigator, but Ms M didnt. She said that AWPs negligence and 
lack of communication had ruined a holiday for five people, especially her daughter who 
has a medical condition. Ms M said that she will never feel secure going abroad again. 
She says that AWP left her for five days with a broken arm and she didnt know whether 
she could return home as planned. Her family wouldnt have left her, so they also didnt 
know if they would be able to return home as planned. Ms M says that she was in pain 
and felt abandoned by AWP. She says that compensation of £350 isnt sufficient. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Ms M has very strong feelings about this matter. Im 
conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied 
that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Ms M wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
AWP have done enough to put things right
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Its common ground that Ms M received poor service from AWP. Weve 
asked AWP for its claim, contact and call notes for Ms Ms claim but it hasnt provided them. 
So, I accept Ms Ms chronology of events. 
Based on what Ms M says, AWP was first aware of her claim on 9 February 2022. Initially, 
Ms M agreed to defer the operation she needed until her return to the UK but changed her 
mind. AWP should have contacted Ms M promptly following her enquiry about having the 
operation that day. AWP was at fault in failing to contact Ms M between 9 February 2022 
and 11 February 2022. 
AWP hasnt explained why it said that Ms M could wait for the operation until her return to 
the UK. I dont think that I can safely conclude that if AWP had dealt promptly with Ms Ms 
enquiry on 9 February 2022, it would have necessarily led to it authorising immediate 
surgery. But Ms M was left in an uncertain position at an already worrying time. And her 
distress and inconvenience was compounded by the fact that she is a carer for one of her 
daughters and assists in the care of one of her grandchildren. Ms M was in the frustrating 
position of repeatedly contacting AWP for assistance between 9 February 2022 and           
11 February 2022.  
The remaining issue for me to decide is what AWP should do to put matters right. Only Ms M 
has the benefit of this policy, so theres no basis on which I can award compensation for the 
benefit of her family. And the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment, so whilst I appreciate 
that Ms Ms accident spoiled her trip, thats not something covered by the policy. 
I can award compensation for Ms Ms distress and inconvenience caused by AWPs poor 
service. Considering everything, I think that total compensation of £350 is fair and 
reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of Ms Ms distress and inconvenience caused by AWPs poor service. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should pay Ms M compensation of £350 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the step 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman