DRN-4091349
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Ltd (RSA) has declined to cover the cost of 
dental treatment for one of her dogs although it has accepted it for the other, who had the 
same condition.
What happened
Mrs P insured her two dogs, who Ill refer to as M1 and M2, with RSA on 28 March 2021.
 
Both her dogs had problems with their teeth when puppies. They both showed signs of 
lingual displacement of their lower canine teeth. This is a bilateral condition that will affect 
both left and right canine teeth and involves the deciduous (puppy) canine teeth growing 
towards the puppys hard palate. 
M1 was first seen by her vet on 6 April 2021 at which time she had no canines present so no 
assessment could be made. The first time these teeth were assessed was on 23 April 2021 
when they were noted to be lingually displaced and extraction was advised. Her adult teeth 
have also subsequently grown in lingually displaced. RSA has settled Mrs Ps claim for M1s 
treatment.
M2 was also first seen on 6 April 2021. She was noted on that date to have a possible 
lingually displaced lower right canine although at that time her teeth had not fully erupted. 
She was next seen on 23 April 2021 when both lower canine teeth were noted to be lingually 
displaced and their removal was advised to give the adult canine teeth the best chance of 
growing into normal position. Both deciduous canines were extracted on 26 April 2021.
It was noted on 31 August 2021 that M2s right adult canine had grown in lingually displaced, 
and the left adult canine had not erupted at all. She was treated for malocclusion and the 
right adult canine was reduced in height to the level of the adjacent mandibular incisor teeth 
on 25 February 2022 by a specialist dental vet. He also noted that M2s left mandibular 
canine was impacted and deformed and this was extracted. Mrs P is claiming for the cost of 
the treatment to M2s right canine.
RSA has declined Mrs Ps claim for the cost of this treatment for M2 by reference to the 
following term of her policy:
What is not covered: We will not pay:
4. for illnesses which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days of your policy 
first starting or any illness that develops from them. By illness we mean: 
diagnosed illness; 
signs or symptoms of illness (undiagnosed illness)
As Mrs Ps policy start date was 28 March 2021, she wouldnt therefore be covered for any 
illnesses that had shown signs or symptoms before 11 April 2021. M2s possible lingual 
displacement was first noted on 6 April.
Mrs P argues that the malocclusion of M2s lower right adult canine for which she was 
treated in February 2022 is not linked to her deciduous teeth.
M2s treating vet has also said that the lingually displaced adult canines were not a pre-
existing condition as they didnt erupt until M2 was six months old and as such it couldnt be 
ascertained that they would be lingually displaced.
RSA maintains that Mrs Ps claim in February 2022 for M2s treatment in August 2021 is 
related to the clinical signs of lower right lingual displacement that were first  noted on 6 April 
2021. It didnt receive any further information from M2s treating vet that would support a 
case that the issues werent related.
As Mrs P wasnt satisfied with RSAs rejection of her claim she brought a complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that the treatment to M2s adult teeth was needed due 
to issues connected with the removal of her deciduous teeth, and that treatment wasnt 
covered by Mrs Ps policy.
In response to our investigators view, which also made reference to M2s impacted left 
canine, Mrs P has clarified that shes only seeking to claim for the treatment for M2s right 
canine. Shes asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Its thereof been 
referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
There has been considerable comment on M2s condition by M2s treating vet and her 
specialist dental vet as well as RSAs in - house veterinary experts but much of this has 
been in relation to the treatment for M2s lower left adult canine which had not erupted and 
the possible cause for this. However I dont consider this is relevant to Mrs Ps complaint 
which is focussed on RSAs rejection of the cost of treating M2s lower right adult canine 
which, having grown through following the extraction of her lower right deciduous canine, 
was also noted to be lingually displaced.
M2s dental specialist has confirmed the connection between the condition of deciduous 
teeth and the adult teeth that replace them. Hes stated:
Generally, current understanding of significance of malocclusion of deciduous teeth is 
that it can affect independent growth of the jaws and eruption pathway of the permanent 
teeth. Early extraction of maloccluding deciduous teeth in certain conditions is expected 
to allow better eruption pathway of the permanent teeth  in some cases it is successful, 
in others not.
It would appear that in this case the removal of M2s deciduous canines unfortunately didnt 
lead to the successful growth of permanent teeth. 
M2s vet has stated:
I have been informed by our mutual client, Mrs [P], that you needed confirmation that 
the lingually displaced adult canines were not a pre-existing condition. I can confirm that 
this is the case, the adult teeth did not erupt until the dogs were 6 months old and as 
such it could not be ascertained that they would be lingually displaced.I agree with that statement to the extent that  it wouldnt be known until the adult teeth had 
emerged whether or not they would emerge lingually displaced. But I disagree with it to the 
extent that it states that any lingually displaced adult canines that did emerge would not be a 
pre-existing condition. Im not persuaded by the argument that because the claim relates to 
M2s adult teeth, not her deciduous teeth, the exclusion doesnt apply.
In my view the issue in this case is whether or not M2s lingually displaced lower right adult 
canine was connected to a condition that manifested itself before Mrs P took out her policy 
or 14 days thereafter, and Im satisfied that it did. Lingual displacement in her deciduous 
canines was first suspected on M2s examination on 6 April 2021, within 14 days of policy 
inception, which led to their removal.
M2s vet appears to accept this, stating to RSA, (my emphasis underlined):
As the initial consult was within the initial period then I can only suggest you are right to 
decline the claim if the retained tooth [the left canine] is related to the lingual 
displacement. Certainly, the right canine would not be insured but there is a chance the 
left canine (which is retained) may have no bearing on the original lingual displacement. 
M2s vet hasnt provided any further evidence or information supporting a case that the 
current claim isnt related to the issues noted on 6 April 2021. 
The reason why RSA agreed to cover the cost of M1s treatment but not that of M2 was 
because in M1s case, there were no clinical signs shown of lingual displacement within 14 
days from Mrs P taking out her policy, whereas in the case of M2 there were.
I therefore conclude that in declining to cover the cost of M2s treatment, RSA has acted in 
accordance with the terms of Mrs Ps policy and hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards her in doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs P complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman