DRN-4060043
The complaint
Miss N has complained about the service shes received from American International Group 
UK Limited (AIG) when trying to make a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy 
when her mobile phone was stolen.
References to AIG include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Miss Ns mobile phone was stolen on 22 July 2022. Shed bought the phone on eBay and 
had a SIM only contract with a network provider.
She reported the theft to the police and to AIG with whom it was insured on the same day. 
She was told that AIGs claim validation team would be in contact with her within one 
working day.
The course of event thereafter was as follows:
 
On 25 July 2022 AIG emailed Miss N asking her to provide (1) Proof of Usage (2) 
Proof of Barring, and (3) Proof of Circumstances of loss.
Miss N responded to say shed tried to get Proof of Usage and Proof of Barring from 
her network provider, but they couldnt provide her with these as shed bought her 
phone on eBay and not through them.
On 26 July 2022 AIGs records show that Miss Ns Proof of Circumstances was 
approved, but it said the claim would remain on hold until Proof of Usage and Barring 
had been provided. It told Miss N that it knew that her network provider could 
produce these and advised her how to get these documents. (AIG has accepted that 
Miss N wasnt advised to get a Letter of Refusal from her network provider if they 
couldnt provide Proof of Usage).
Following a call being disconnected, Miss N submitted a complaint to AIG.
On 27 July 2022, Miss N again advised AIG that she couldnt get a Proof of Barring 
from her network provider.
Miss N provided AIG with copies of bills from her network provider as Proof of Usage.
On 28 July 2022 the entry in AIGs records says that an invalid Proof of Usage had 
been submitted. It reiterates that her network provider had to provide Proof of Usage 
regardless of where the phone was purchased. If it was used on their network theyd 
be able to provide Proof of Usage.
On 30 July 2022 Miss N called AIG and informed it that as the phone was bought on 
eBay she couldnt get a Letter of Refusal, a Proof of Usage or a Proof of Barring as 
her network provider only supplied her SIM and not her phone.
Miss N was able to bar her phone though an on-line website. She says she was 
advised to do this by an AIG manager.
On 1 August 2022, AIG notes that its unusual for Miss Ns network provider not to 
provide a Proof of Usage, Proof of Barring or Letter of Refusal regardless of whether 
the phone was on contract or pay-as-you-go, and Miss N needs to provide something 
in writing from her network provider confirming that they cant provide these.
On 5 August 2022 AIG informed Miss N that her network provider can provide Proof 
of Usage as the SIM is theirs. AIG says it receives these daily on numerous claims 
including on SIM only phones.
Miss Ns complaint to AIG was that shed been misinformed by it as to what documentation it 
required from her and that she wasnt able to provide the form of documentation that AIG 
required. She also complained about rudeness and a lack of communication from AIG and 
calls being ended by AIG agents. 
On 22 August 2022 AIG provided its final response to Miss Ns complaint in which it 
accepted most of Miss Ns grounds of complaint about the service shed received and 
offered her £95 compensation. It explained that it still required her to provide a valid Proof of 
Usage or a Letter of Refusal for its investigation. It stated that a copy of a monthly bill from 
her network provider was not sufficient proof. It made no reference to the need for Proof of 
Barring. 
Miss N remained very dissatisfied with the service shed received from AIG and very 
frustrated with the difficulty she was facing in having AIG settle her claim. She says she 
made 14 calls to AIG over a 2- week period, each lasting 3-4 hours. As having a phone was 
very important to her for family reasons, she purchased a new phone for £1,000.
Miss N brought her complaint to this service. She said shes seeking £1,000 compensation 
from AIG to cover the cost of her new phone and a further £1,000 for the distress and upset 
she says she experienced in her dealings with it. She also says that she lost £1,000 income 
as a consequence of the time she spent on the phone to AIG about her claim. 
Our investigators view was that it wasnt unreasonable for AIG to request that Miss N 
provide Proof of Usage or a written statement from her network provider that they couldnt 
provide this. If they werent able to provide this, this wasnt something for which AIG was 
responsible. He also considered that in the circumstances and based on the approach taken 
by this service towards compensation, the £95 offered by AIG wasnt unreasonable.
In response to our investigators view, Miss N provided Proof of Baring which shed arranged 
for herself online following advice shed received from an AIG manager.  She also provided 
four months itemised billing showing her usage of the phone prior to its theft, and Proof of 
Circumstances of the loss. She also says that there wasnt just one but several occasions 
when her phone conversations with AIG were cut off and emphasised the distress this 
caused her. 
Miss N doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I initially provided a provisional decision in this case. Both Miss N and AIG accepted this 
decision, although AIG expressed its view that Miss N was required to provide documents to 
prove her loss and hadnt done so, yet shed been rewarded with compensation. 
My award of compensation in excess of that offered by AIG was to reflect the fact that Miss 
N had been caused additional upset by the fact that shed received confusing and conflicting 
information from AIG. Specifically, she says she was advised by an AIG manager that she 
could arrange for her phone to be barred on-line through a third company, and shed done 
this. AIGs final response letter doesnt state that Proof of Barring remains outstanding, but 
AIG has subsequently said it does. I consider that this justifies additional compensation.
My final decision is therefore as follows. 
Ive looked at AIGs records of its interactions with Miss N following her report of the theft of 
her phone.
Ive also looked at Miss Ns policy. This states that in the event of a claim for loss or theft a 
policyholder needs to provide the following:
Other Documentation. [AIG] may ask for additional information and documentation in 
order to assess Your claim. This could include documentation to show when the Device 
was last used, when any Loss or Theft was reported to Your network provider, or to verify 
Your identity. [AIG] will confirm what information, if anything, is required during the claims 
process. If You have any problems in getting any supporting documentation [AIG] 
requires, please contact them so they can guide You on how to obtain these. It is 
important that You provide [AIG] with the relevant information they have requested as 
soon as possible. Failure on Your part to provide [AIG] with the requested documentation 
may result in a denial of Your claim.
Ive also sought further information from AIG to clarify the current position of Miss Ns claim. 
AIG says that Miss Ns claim hasnt been declined. It remains on hold until Miss N has 
provided the documentary evidence that its requested to support her claim. I consider its 
reasonable for AIG to investigate claims and to require satisfactory evidence to support 
them.
In reviewing Miss Ns complaint, I have to consider whether AIG has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
I consider that there was an initial lack of clarity as to what evidence AIG had received from 
Miss N, and in subsequent communications with her, a lack of clarity as to what AIG required 
and the form this must take. Miss N has been told that there are three things it requires:
Proof of Circumstances of loss  Miss N has provided this to AIGs satisfaction.
Proof of Barring/Blacklisting  Having been told by her network provider that they 
couldnt provide this because theyd only provided the SIM and not the phone, Miss N 
says she followed the recommendation of a manager at AIG and arranged on-line for the 
phone to be barred by a third party. AIGs subsequent final response letter doesnt 
mention this as an outstanding matter.
In response to questions I raised with AIG,  its said that Proof of Barring still remains 
outstanding. Ive not seen any evidence that Miss N has been told that the Proof of 
Barring she obtained on-line isnt acceptable, or why.
Proof of Usage  This remains outstanding. Miss N provided bills from her network 
provider but as these only provide evidence of use of the SIM and not the phone itself, they werent accepted by AIG as sufficient evidence of Miss Ns usage of the phone. In 
its final response letter AIG says that copies of bills arent accepted as Proof of Usage.
AIG has provided clarification to me that a network provider can provide Proof of Usage of 
any SIM and phone (IMEI) used on their network, whether on a monthly or pay-as-you-go 
contract, and irrespective of whether the phone was purchased from them or not. I dont 
consider it unreasonable for AIG to require this evidence when considering a claim for loss or 
theft. 
However, its aware that certain network providers wont provide Proof of Barring or Blocking 
if the phone wasnt purchased from them, in which case AIG would expect to see a Letter of 
Refusal. It says that network providers are very familiar with such requests as they are 
standard requests from insurers. 
Miss N hasnt provided either a Proof of Usage or a Proof of Barring from her network 
provider or a Letter of Refusal in relation to obtaining either of these. I dont consider that AIG 
has acted unreasonably in requiring Miss N to provide the evidence its asked for before it 
can make a decision on her claim. 
But I do consider that the information that Miss N has received from AIG about what it 
requires her to provide has been unclear, incomplete and confusing. As an example, Miss N 
says she was advised to bar her phone on-line, which she did. AIGs final response letter to 
Miss N makes no reference to Proof of Barring still being outstanding, but it appears that AIG 
considers that it is. 
I accept that poor communication from AIG has caused considerable frustration and upset for 
Miss N. Im also conscious that Miss N has said shes lost paid work because of the time she 
had to spend on the phone with AIG to discuss her claim.
AIG has accepted that its service hasnt been all Miss N wouldve expected and has offered 
her £95 compensation. As Miss N will now have to renew her efforts to obtain a Proof of 
Barring as well as Proof of Usage, or Letters of Refusal, I consider that  some additional 
compensation is justified. I consider that Miss N has suffered inconvenience and upset 
beyond that which is experienced as a matter of course from something going wrong. I 
consider that compensation should be increased to £200 to reflect this. 
The compensation Miss N is seeking for loss of earnings is not something this service 
generally requires a business to pay.
If Miss N can provide the Proof of Usage and Proof of Barring that AIG has requested, or 
alternatively Letters of Refusal, then it will be in a position to finalise the consideration of her 
claim. It might assist a settlement of this claim if AIG were to offer alternative sources of  
evidence by which her claim could be verified.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint and require American 
International Group UK Limited to pay her compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman