DRN-3110376
The complaint
Mr M has complained that his motor insurance provider EUI Limited trading as Admiral 
(Admiral) has unfairly declined a claim he has attempted to make under the driving other 
cars section of his policy. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident when driving his wifes car. Mr M was not a named driver 
on his wifes motor insurance policy, so he attempted to make a claim under the driving 
other cars section of his own policy held with Admiral.
Admiral declined Mr Ms claim as it said that while the policy covered Mr M to drive other 
cars it excluded cover for cars that were owned by the policy holders partner.
Mr M said the information provided by Admiral when he took out the policy wasnt clear that 
he would not be covered when driving his wifes car. He would have been covered in the 
same situation with his previous insurers and having checked with other providers this 
exclusion seems rare. Mr M has also explained that his understanding is that cover to drive 
other cars is generally included under most motor insurance policies without this restriction.
There has been some confusion over what documentation Mr M would have received when 
he took out the policy, and what he would have been able to access online. But overall our 
Investigator thought the documentation was unclear, and that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld.
Admiral disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at Mr Ms complaint I have had to decide whether the information provided to 
Mr M when he took out the policy clearly brought to his attention that he would not be 
covered when driving his wifes car.
Admiral has provided documentation it says Mr M would have seen when he took out the 
policy. Mr M has provided screenshots of the journey he would take via his online portal with 
Admiral to access his documents. The screenshots provided by Mr M were provided 
sometime after the claim. One of documents (the insurance product information document 
(IPID)) is different to that provided by Admiral and contains different wording for the driving 
other cars section.
Documentation specific to Mr Ms motor insurance policy were the:
Insurance certificate
Car insurance guide (policy)
Schedule of insurance 
The IPID document described by both Admiral and Mr M is an additional document that 
refers back to Mr Ms specific documents.
I have looked at each of these documents.
Insurance certificate
The insurance certificate states:
All drivers must be driving in accordance with the terms of their licence. The Policyholder 
may also drive, with the consent of the owner, a private motor car. Only Third Party liabilities 
are covered when driving another car. Please see Your Car Insurance Guide as restrictions 
will apply.
I think it is clear from this wording that Mr M was covered to drive other cars, although this 
does not bring to Mr Ms attention that he was not covered to drive his wifes car. It does 
refer Mr M to his Car Insurance Guide for restrictions, but the exclusion Admiral has relied 
on removes all cover if Mr M was to drive his wifes car so I would expect this to be clear.
Car Insurance guide
The car insurance guide does explain that Mr M would not be covered when driving his 
wifes car. It states:
You will be covered for everything listed in clause 1a when you are driving any other car as 
long as:
the other car is not a hire or rental car, is not owned by you or your partner
But this information is on page 15 of the document under section 1b.. Considering the 
importance of this term I dont think this brings it to Mr Ms attention clearly. 
Schedule
The schedule, again specific to Mr Ms insurance has a section titled Extra Conditions 
(Endorsements)  if applicable It states:
Please read Extra Conditions (Endorsements) in Your Car Insurance Guide at 
www.admiral.com
Includes cover to drive other cars on a third party basis only
I think the schedule is clear that Mr M was covered to drive other cars on a third-party basis. 
There is nothing here to bring the exclusion Admiral has relied on to Mr Ms attention.
IPID
Both Mr M and Admiral have also provided different IPID documents and I have looked at 
the relevant section under each document. The document provided by Admiral states that 
the driving other cars section of cover excludes vehicles belonging to your partner. The 
document provided by Mr M taken from his online portal refers him to his motor insurance 
certificate for more information.Admiral hasnt clearly evidenced which of the two documents Mr M would have seen when 
he took out his policy, or what he would have seen if he had checked the IPID online. But it 
has stated that this document is not customer specific, and that Mr M would be directed from 
his portal to a separate page where these non-customer specific documents are available.
While I have considered both documents, I think that it would be reasonable for Mr M to look 
at his own specific documents when checking what he was covered for and rely on them. As 
Ive concluded Mr Ms specific documents didnt clearly bring the exclusion to his attention, I 
dont think Admiral has acted fairly when relying on the exclusion to decline his claim. 
 
Putting things right
I think Admiral has acted unfairly when declining Mr Ms claim and this would have caused 
Mr M trouble and upset.
So, to put things right Admiral should:
re-consider Mr Ms claim without applying the exclusion it has relied on to decline the 
claim on the basis Mr M was driving his wifes car
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and require EUI Limited trading as Admiral to put things right by 
doing what Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman