DRN-2312631
The complaint
Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a subsidence claim made under 
his buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to AXA in this decision also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr As claim for subsidence has been ongoing for several years. The subsidence, caused by 
tree root induced clay shrinkage, has affected his property which comprises a ground floor 
residential premises he lets out and a first floor business premises. 
Mr A says it has caused him an immense amount of stress to try to sort the claim out. He 
says there were delays of months every time he asked for an update and that AXA refused 
to underpin the property. There was a dispute over Mr As loss of rent claim and there have 
also been issues with the conservatory roof leaking, which has led to disagreements about 
the scope of works required to put things right.
AXA has accepted it caused delays in the process and that it couldve handled the claim 
better. It paid Mr A £1000 in recognition of this. But it said it didnt think underpinning was 
required as that is considered a last resort and it argued that its suggested repairs would be 
lasting and effective. It also said its liability in relation to the conservatory was to replace the 
roof only. Mr A disagreed with AXAs response and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and agreed that AXA hadnt handled the claim as well 
as it shouldve, but agreed that the compensation it had paid in recognition of this was 
reasonable. Because Mr A didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. While I agree that AXA has 
fallen short of the level of service Mr A should reasonably expect from it in its handling of the 
claim, I consider AXA to have recognised this and paid a fair level of compensation for its 
failings. 
The rules governing this service  which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, and are known as DISP  say this service cant look at a complaint if it was 
made more than six years after the event being complained of. Mr A raised his complaint 
with AXA on 11 April 2019 and so, as he is already aware, I can only consider matters 
arising from 11 April 2013. 
So Ive looked carefully at the issues that arose between that date and the date of AXAs 
final response letter, dated 4 July 2019. During that time Mr A has raised a number of 
concerns and there have been various disagreements about the progression of the claim. Ill 
deal with each one in turn.
Delays in handling the claim
Ive considered the timeline of what has happened during this claim. AXA has accepted it 
shouldve provided a better service and that it caused unreasonable delays in the process.
Claims of this nature ordinarily do cause considerable inconvenience to policy holders and 
can be stressful and take a long time to deal with, particularly where there needs to be a 
period of monitoring and a property needs to be stabilised before repairs can take place. Ive 
considered what aspects of the claim process would lead to the usual levels of stress and 
inconvenience, and what additional stress and inconvenience was caused by AXA due to its 
poor handling of the claim.
Having thought carefully about this, I agree that AXAs handling of the claim was poor at 
times and that it needed to compensate Mr A for this. But I dont think it was responsible for 
all the delays that occurred. For example, there were substantial delays due to a tree 
preservation order and due to disagreements around the scope of necessary works. I do 
think AXA unnecessarily delayed matters by suggesting the claim should be split, by not 
monitoring adequately or performing repairs as soon as it couldve, by not appointing 
independent experts early enough in the process, and by not responding to Mr A in a timely 
manner on several occasions. 
However, the payment of £1000 that AXA has made is in the region of what I would usually 
award for the type of delays and poor service Ive seen in this case. So I wont be requiring 
AXA to compensate Mr A further.
Loss of rent claim
AXA paid Mr A for loss of rent up until October 2018 due to his tenants moving out. And 
evidence provided by AXA shows it was willing to consider making additional loss of rent 
payments provided the second report obtained in September 2019 showed AXAs proposed 
schedule of works to be incomplete. 
However, the second expert report confirmed AXAs schedule of works was reasonable and 
this meant Mr A could have agreed to the scheduled work at that point and mitigated his 
future loss of rent. So I agree that no further loss of rent payments wouldve been 
reasonable after the point a suitable schedule of works was put forward by AXA, and so I 
wont be asking AXA to do anything further in relation to this.
Work required to fix the conservatory
Mr As policy says AXA will settle claims by replacing, reinstating, repairing or by payment. 
So its for AXA to show that a replacement of the conservatory roof, rather than full structural 
work to the conservatory, would constitute a lasting and effective repair.
Mr A has said he wanted the conservatory to be replaced completely and that the 
foundations ought to be strengthened. AXA said mitigation work should be sufficient to 
address the cause of the subsidence.
But Mr A is also unhappy that AXA initially said it would be underpinning the property and 
covering a full replacement of the entire conservatory structure. I can see that this was 
offered at one stage, as Mr A said he wouldnt accept the suggested alternative repairs to 
the roof as these had been attempted many times previously. I note that the expert report dated 17 April 2015 does indeed refer to the roof not being fit for purpose and advises 
replacing the roof with double-glazed glass and also replacing the side and front windows 
and frames with heavy duty support. And AXA has accepted that the report says this.
However, AXA says although it agreed to a replacement conservatory, Mr A didnt accept 
the settlement offer and requested engineering drawings of the design scheme. AXA says 
Mr A then obtained a quote which was 3 times AXAs liability, so an impasse was reached 
between the parties at this point. While I accept what Mr A says in his correspondence, and I 
do not believe that his requests were unreasonable, I can see from the contact notes that an 
impasse had been reached, so I dont think AXA acted unfairly by appointing a further expert 
to provide his findings. Mr A confirmed in email correspondence with AXA at the time, that 
he was happy for an independent engineer to assess the conservatory, which I think shows 
both sides were willing to consider the findings of a second expert. 
The second expert report dated 3 September 2019, which Mr A believes is not by an 
independent expert, recommends replacing only the upper part of the roof using single-
glazed glass panels.
Mr A says this report shouldnt be relied on as the specialist was not independent. Ive 
considered what Mr A says about this  the specialist was appointed by AXA, but that 
doesnt mean he was biased or that AXAs instructions to him prejudiced him in some way. 
And Ive looked at the specialists background and I think he was suitably qualified to inspect 
the premises and report his findings fairly. Ive seen nothing in the report that I dont think 
can be relied on and due to the level of detail within the report, Ive found it more persuasive 
than the 2015 report.
In light of this, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but Im satisfied the schedule of works AXA has 
put forward, supported by the second experts report, is reasonable.
Next steps
AXA has said its willing to instruct its contractors to complete the required works, instead of 
paying Mr A the settlement of £36,300 including VAT that hes been offered. Its up to Mr A 
to decide whether he would like to employ his own contractors to complete the work or 
proceed with AXAs offer. 
I appreciate Mr A has gone to considerable expense and spent a significant amount of time 
in pursuing this complaint. Id like to assure Mr A that Ive read all his correspondence and 
considered everything hes said. Id also like to assure Mr A that should the proposed works 
be undertaken by AXAs contractors and should Mr A have any doubt in future as to whether 
the repairs have been lasting or effective, then he will be able to raise a further complaint 
with AXA about the effectiveness of those repairs, and AXA will have to respond to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman