DRN-4095998
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card for concert tickets.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr P used his Clydesdale credit card to pay just over £407 for four tickets for 
a concert. The single item price for each ticket was £85 and the website Mr P bought the 
tickets from charged him a further £10.80 for its fee. The rest of the £407 was made up of 
other charges.
Mr P has said he got tickets for the wrong area of seating from those he wanted, as he and 
others are very tall and need appropriate leg room. He says he asked the website for a 
refund. He says he then decided to get tickets for the same concert direct from the venue. 
He says he didnt get the tickets and was then told by the website he could collect the tickets 
from the box office at the venue on the day of the concert. But he says there werent tickets 
to collect from the box office. So he asked for his money back, but the website wouldnt 
refund him. So he complained to Clydesdale.
Clydesdale looked into the matter and raised a chargeback with the website. The website 
responded and Clydesdale considered the websites defence and decided the chargeback 
no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. It also considered Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) and concluded that this dispute didnt meet the 
requirements for a successful claim. However Clydesdale did offer Mr P £50 for the 
customer service it had provided.
Mr P didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Clydesdale had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Ps request for a refund. Mr P didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the website, which isnt a financial 
services provider and doesnt fall within my remit. Whatever the issues there maybe with the 
website and just because Mr P says he has lost money, it doesnt necessarily follow that 
Clydesdale has treated Mr P unfairly or that it should refund him. And this decision is solely 
about how Clydesdale treated Mr P. I hope this point is sufficiently clear.
Mr P accepts he made this payment for the concert tickets with the website in question and 
doesnt dispute the amount or date of the transaction itself (he says he got the wrong type of 
tickets for the concert). Having looked into the matter Im satisfied that the transaction was 
properly authorised by Mr P by entering his card details and correctly applied to his credit 
card account with Clydesdale. 
could Clydesdale challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr P does 
here, Clydesdale (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Clydesdale couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr P didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusion on this issue that Ive already set out.
Clydesdale is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. And if Clydesdale takes the chargeback as far as it 
can then the scheme provider (not Clydesdale) will then make an independent determination 
on the matter. So Clydesdale isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or 
not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Here Clydesdale did raise a chargeback and the website responded. I can see from the call 
records from when Mr P raised the issue with Clydesdale the focus was around the delivery 
and receipt /non-receipt of the tickets. And it was along these lines that the Chargeback was 
raised with the website.
I can see the entire response of the website to the chargeback which covers all issues 
regarding the original sales process and all following events. So even if Clydesdale could 
have put more detail into the chargeback process than it did, I dont think this has led to Mr P 
losing out as the website covered all the issues in its response anyway.
Mr P has raised a number of issues regarding this entire matter, so Ill deal with them in the 
order that they happened.
The sale itself
Mr P says that at the time of purchase he wanted stalls rather than the tiered seating due to 
his height and consequent concerns regarding leg room. I can see evidence of Mr P telling a 
separate insurance company the day after the purchase of having difficulty in the purchase 
due to the website crashing repeatedly whilst he was trying to make the purchase. And this 
is certainly an argument Mr P has raised repeatedly since the matter happened.
The test here is did Clydesdale fairly consider the websites response when considering 
whether to continue with the chargeback. In the response to the chargeback the website has 
provided evidence around the stages of the sales process and particularly around the 
opportunities to see which tickets have been selected from the point of selection through to 
when the transaction is authorised after the card details are confirmed. I do not doubt Mr Ps 
comments about the website crashing. Nevertheless it is an automated process which ends 
with the sale being authorised by the purchaser. And it is unlikely that Mr P didnt authorise 
this purchase considering the process here. So I do not think Clydesdale has acted unfairly 
by not pursuing the chargeback further based on what the website showed it in its evidence 
regarding the sales process. 
The chargeback
Mr P says he contacted the website once he realised something had gone wrong. Its not 
clear how he knew something was wrong, bearing in mind his comments that he never 
received a booking confirmation email (10 February 2023 email to this service). Ive seen the 
evidence from the website of the confirmation email being sent at the time and what it said. 
But its also clear from Mr Ps text messages hes submitted he was trying to liaise with the website on the day of the purchase and repeatedly afterwards, only some of which seems to 
have been recorded by the website. And his dispute now is also about not receiving the 
tickets and this is the main issue that Clydesdale put to the website in its chargeback.
The website said to Clydesdale that Mr P had selected that the tickets should be sent by 
post and that it did that. It also said the box office concerned had Mr Ps details on its 
customer list in order to let him in to the event. Mr P says the tickets were not at the box 
office when he went to collect them. Mr P has provided an email from the box office which 
supports the websites position. This email says: 
However, as I stated in my previous emails, we would have had a full list of customers 
names and seat numbers, this enables us to rectify any agency ticketing issues. 
So Im satisfied Mr P could have attended the concert through the arrangements the website 
said it made. So I dont think Clydesdale has done anything wrong by not taking the 
chargeback further. And it should be remembered that Mr P has made clear that he 
purchased a second set of tickets for the concert directly from the venue very shortly after 
purchasing these tickets and used them to get into the concert concerned.
Mr P says he was told he could get a refund for the tickets he bought. However the websites 
terms make clear that all sales are final. Mr P points to a message he got from the website. 
Ive considered this message and note it says that you have to log in to the website to see if 
his order qualifies for a refund. So Im not persuaded this said that Mr P would get a refund.
I appreciate that Mr P feels very strongly that the website has treated him unfairly. However 
this decision isnt about the website. It is about whether Clydesdale treated his dispute with 
the website fairly, particularly in regard to chargeback. As Ive described the website 
responded to the chargeback with a significant and considered defence dealing with the 
various issues that Mr P has raised. And I think Clydesdale could have fairly decided at that 
point not to take the chargeback further. Nevertheless it wrote to Mr P on 15 February 2022 
(Ive seen a copy of this letter) and it noted its position but said if Mr P had anything further 
he wanted it to consider then he could supply that by 26 February 2022, and it would 
consider this. Clydesdale say it didnt receive anything from Mr P that changed its mind. So it 
brought the chargeback process to an end at that point.
All in all having considered what happened here I dont think Clydesdale has done anything 
here which has led to Mr P losing out. Ultimately I dont think hes lost out because the 
chargeback didnt go further, because I think on balance it would have ultimately been 
unsuccessful had it gone to the final stage.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the website. Ive considered 
the required relationship as set out in Section 75 and consider that it is met here for the 
provision of the booking ticket service. The CCA also requires the single cash price item be 
over £100 and less than £30,000. Here the tickets were £85 each. There were additional 
charges added by the website for services provided but none of these were over £100. So 
Im satisfied that Clydesdale couldnt be held responsible here for a like claim to that 
against the website under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So it has nothing 
further to do here under this legislation in this case.
Other mattersFor the sake of completeness Ill deal with some of Mr Ps other arguments. He says he 
never received the tickets. This maybe so. However Im satisfied the website did enough 
once it was aware hed not received them in the post by putting his name at the box office. 
And Clydesdale having seen this, and the other comments made by the website, didnt treat 
Mr P unfairly by not taking the chargeback further. And it cant be held responsible under 
S75.
Mr P says he was told on the day of purchase that he would have a refund. Other than what 
Mr P says Ive seen no evidence to support this. And the message he sent from the website 
in essence says he might get a refund rather than he will. But its also clear all sales are final. 
And Ive not seen any reason to be persuaded that Clydesdale has treated him unfairly in 
this regard.
Mr P says he only bought the second set of tickets because hed been promised a refund. 
From what Ive seen I think he was told he could apply for a refund, but Ive not seen 
persuasive evidence that he was told or guaranteed he was definitely getting a refund. So I 
dont think it would be fair for Clydesdale to have to refund this amount.
Lastly I can see Clydesdale offered Mr P £50 for some customer service issues it was 
responsible for. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
In summary I think that Mr P hasnt lost out here due to what Clydesdale did. I think 
Clydesdale made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. And I dont think 
it could be held responsible under S75 either. So I dont think I can fairly require Clydesdale 
to refund Mr P for the tickets. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr P wants to read. But I dont think Clydesdale 
treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman