DRN-2561716
The complaint
Mr T complains that when he opened a Growth Bond with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)
he didnt receive the interest rate he was expecting.
What happened
 On 29 April 2020 Mr T called BOI to request a Growth Bond application pack. One was sent
and at the end of May 2020 he visited a Post Office branch to make an application for the
three-year version of bond.
When, shortly after, he received confirmation of the bond being opened, he was
disappointed to discover that his bond was Issue 41, with an interest rate of 0.75%. When
hed requested the application pack Issue 40 had been available, with an interest rate of
1.3%, and that was the issue he assumed would be opened for him.
Mr T complained to BOI, but it explained that bond issues and associated interest rates were
subject to change at any time and this had been made clear in the documentation sent to
him in the application pack. It said Issue 40 had been withdrawn on 21 May 2020 and
replaced the next day with Issue 41. It reminded him that he was able to cancel the bond
and have his money returned if he wasnt satisfied, and it extended the period in which he
was able to do this  although he ultimately chose not to.
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator reached a different
conclusion to BOI. While he accepted that BOI was entitled to change the bond issues and
interest rates at any time, he felt there shouldve been a step in the process that confirmed to
Mr T which issue he would receive. The investigator felt that without this, Mr F had been set
an expectation that he would receive Issue 40 and BOI should therefore compensate him for
the loss of expectation with a payment of £50.
Mr T didnt accept this. He felt he should get the Issue 40 rate, or at least increased
compensation.
BOI also didnt accept the investigators view. In brief, it felt that enough had been done to
alert Mr T to the fact that issues and rates could change at any time. He was not misled and,
given that rates could change, the most practical way of handling applications for the bonds
was to open them, confirm the rate obtained and then allow for cancellation.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
The information supplied to Mr T prior to him applying for the bond made clear that issues
and rates could be changed at any time. And there was no indication given that thered be
any sort of alert provided to him if a change did happen.
When Mr T visited the Post Office branch to make his application, nearly a month after first
contacting BOI, he didnt ask for confirmation of the issue or rate he would receive. I think if
he had done, its likely the information wouldve been confirmed for him, or if that wasnt
possible, he would at least have been reminded that there was no guarantee that he would
receive Issue 40.
Mr T has drawn attention to the receipt he was given in the Post Office. This confirmed
various details about the application, such as his name and address and the selected term.
The receipt also contained fields for issue and rate, but these were left blank.
Mr T feels that this shows that BOI failed to confirm to him the change in bond issue and
rate. I have some sympathy with this point. Clearly if the fields had been completed, it
wouldve confirmed to Mr T which issue and rate he was going to receive.
But BOI has confirmed that the issue and rate fields are never completed on these receipts,
so there was no deviation from its normal process in Mr Ts case. And although this does
perhaps beg the question why the fields are there, it does mean that BOI didnt act
incorrectly in this respect. And moreover, it emphasises that no issue or rate was confirmed
to Mr T at any point prior to his application being made.
The actual bond issue and rate received is only confirmed once the bond is opened, which in
Mr Ts case was 8 June 2020 with interest backdated to 2 June 2020. At any point up to then
there could be a change, and so it wouldnt be possible to guarantee the bond issue prior to
this point. Which may be the reason why it isnt confirmed in the Post Office receipt.
But in any event, I think the key point is that at no point was Mr T misled or misinformed
about how the bond application worked or what issue and rate he would receive. I
understand why he wouldve liked to know with certainty what rate he would receive. But that
simply isnt how this type of product works. Rather, as noted, the applicable issue and rate is
confirmed after the application is completed. And, importantly, there is then a clear
opportunity to cancel and receive back the money, so that no-one is ever forced into
accepting a rate they dont want. I think this is fair way in which to administer the
applications.
For these reasons, I dont think I can conclude that BOI acted incorrectly or unfairly. So,
while I recognise that Mr T will be very disappointed, it follows that I have no basis on which
to make any award of compensation.
BOI confirmed it had nothing it wished to add.
Mr T sent in a copy of the letter and brochure hed received from BOI and made some 
further points, in brief:
In the brochure BOI appeared to have covered themselves.
But there was no letter sent saying that changes were about to take place and no 
one in the Post Office raised the subject.
Even after the investment had taken place, staff in the Post Office were still unaware. 
Do I not think that its right to make sure the customer is told?
I should be impartial and look at the matter through humanitarian rather than 
monetary eyes, to see that there was unfairness in the process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. Id like to assure Mr T that I have looked at the matter impartially. I understand his frustration 
and I also acknowledge his belief that the process should be such that the investor always 
knows in advance what issue and rate theyre going to get. But its not at all unusual for this 
type of product to be administered in the way it has been by BOI and Im satisfied that its 
acted fairly in doing so.
As I said in my provisional decision, because theres an opportunity to cancel once the rate 
is confirmed it means investors do effectively know of the rate before they fully commit to the 
term. So, theyre able to make an informed decision and change their mind. Looking at the 
brochure Mr T has sent in, it is made clear at the top of the first page of the document that 
rates are subject to change and may be withdrawn at any time.
My final decision
For the reasons given, while I recognise that Mr T will be very disappointed, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman