DRN-4021520
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an 
Advantage Premier packaged bank account in May 2001. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold 
the packaged bank account. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint.
This decision will only be considering whether NatWest mis-sold the account in the first 
instance. Mr B says that one of the benefits of the account, a NatWest Premier card, was 
mis-sold to him as it was a charge card with a credit limit that was not suitable for his 
circumstances. As this aspect of this complaint is about unaffordable lending rather than the 
sale of the account itself, this would need to be dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. 
I want to explain that Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues here and the crux 
of this complaint. I want to reassure Mr B that if I havent commented on an issue, point 
raised or a particular piece of evidence this doesnt mean I havent considered it, nor that I 
think it to be unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr B was given a clear choice in taking out the 
Advantage Premier account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I must make my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened having weighed up 
what both parties have been able to provide me with. Mr B upgraded from a free account, so 
I think that he wouldve been aware that NatWest offered free accounts and that they were 
an option for him. From what Mr B has described I think he took out the account knowing he 
did not have to, as he was strongly encouraged to by NatWest, rather than because he had 
no choice but to do so.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so given this, NatWest did not have to 
ensure the account was right for Mr B at the time it was sold. Mr B says it was recommended 
to him as he was told it would solve the financial issues he had at the time. I should explain 
though what we mean by an advised sale. In general, we would only consider a sale advised 
if NatWest looked at the insurance needs of a customer and recommended a product, such 
as a bank account that met these needs. There is no indication that this account was 
recommended to Mr B because of any of the insurance benefits that it came with.
Given how long ago this event occurred we have limited information as to what exactly the 
benefits were on an Advantage Premier account in 2001. That said, from what information 
we do have, it does appear that one of the benefits of the account was preferential rates on 
borrowing, such as personal loans and overdraft facilities and mortgages. I think therefore 
that rather than being given advice relating to the insurance products that the account may 
have came with, he was encouraged to take out the account due to the discounts on 
borrowing.
This is supported by the loan Mr B took out shortly after agreeing to the account which, from 
what I can see, wouldve had a discounted interest rate due to him holding the Advantage 
Premier account. I dont know the size of the loan, given the timescales involved, though Mr 
B has said it was £30,000. As the discount in interest seems to have been 1% at the time it 
is likely that the cost of the account was initially offset by discounts received on this loan. So 
if the account was promoted to Mr B as a way to save money on his borrowing then I cant 
say that this was inaccurate.
Mr B may say that he should not have been lent money in the first place, but again, as this 
would be a complaint about the money being lent, rather than the account he was being 
sold, this would need to be dealt with separately. Ultimately, I am looking at whether it was 
appropriate to sell Mr B an account given the borrowing that he was intending to take out, 
and given the discounts involved I think it was.
I note there were other benefits that the account likely came with that Mr B has highlighted 
he did not need, but these were for the most part ancillary to the main benefits which were 
discounts on borrowing.
Mr B has explained that he was told in 2011 that the discounts he received on borrowing 
could be achieved on a fee free account. I accept that it is possible a senior staff member of 
Lloyds may have had some discretion in applying discounted rates to borrowing or arranging 
repayments arrangements. But this is not normal, or something offered as a matter of 
course, formally the only way to achieve the specific discounts Mr B received on overdrafts 
loan etc was having the Advantage Premier account. From what I can see it is likely that he 
did, over time, receive the rates he was promised during the initial sale.
I accept that at the time Mr B took out the account he may not have been fully explained all 
of the information about all of the benefits that the account came with. That said I cant see 
anything specific that he was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to take out the 
account in the first place.
Mr B says that he queried downgrading the account, but was told it would increase the 
interest rate of his borrowing, that seems to be true. Mr B was, from what I can see, 
receiving discounted rates of interest on his overdraft and loans due to holding the account 
and formally receiving these discounts was only available by holding the Advantage Premier 
account.
Overall I dont think that the Advantage Premier account was mis-sold. It seems that Mr B 
was sold the Advantage Premier account to obtain interest rates on borrowing that he could 
not formally achieve whilst holding a fee free account. 
I should explain at this point that this decision represents the last stage in our process and 
there is no further recourse to appeal or discuss the merits of this complaint further. That 
said Mr B may be able to pursue this matter elsewhere such as court if he wishes.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman