DRN-3539717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited declined a claim they made under their 
new home warranty.
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a new home which benefitted from a new home warranty underwritten 
by Amtrust. They had separate buildings insurance with a different insurance company, who 
Ill refer to as X.
In late 2016 they noticed cracking in their home. They got in touch with X to make a claim. I 
understand X said the damage had been caused by subsidence. But because of the depth of 
the foundation, the claim wouldnt be covered under Xs policy.
After that, Mr and Mrs H got in touch with Amtrust to claim under the new home warranty. 
Because of the timing of the damage, Amtrust considered the claim under section 3.3  the 
structural insurance period. It arranged for monitoring to be carried out. It reviewed the 
situation in late 2018. It agreed there was a subsidence problem. But it didnt think the 
problem had been caused by a construction defect, so it didnt agree to cover the claim.
Mr and Mrs H took expert advice during 2019 and shared this with Amtrust. They thought 
this supported their position that the foundation was defective and had caused damage. 
They noted a nearby Oak tree was present prior to construction and thought this had caused 
the subsidence problem. They said the foundation was defective because it hadnt been 
designed to withstand the impact of the Oak tree.
Amtrust said a group of Leyland Cypress trees had been removed in 2017 and since then 
the monitoring had shown the property was stable. So it thought the Cypress trees were the 
cause of the subsidence problem and not the Oak tree. As the Cypress trees were planted 
after construction, the foundation design couldnt have taken them into account. Amtrust 
didnt think it had been shown the subsidence damage was the result of a construction 
defect. Because of that, it declined the claim. It accepted the evidence provided by Mr and 
Mrs H was compelling but said its Technical Manual doesnt set out a method to determine 
the exact foundation depth required when building near trees.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. He thought Amtrust had shown the damage was caused by the Cypress trees, 
rather than the Oak, and that wasnt something the design could have taken into account. 
And as a result, it was fair for Amtrust to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and provided further information, including:
Further monitoring data
Evidence from the loss adjuster appointed by X to consider the claim under the 
buildings insurance policy
A new structural engineer report
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is solely about Amtrust and whether it acted fairly when it declined Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim under their new home warranty. So I havent considered the way X 
handled the separate claim under the separate buildings insurance policy.
There are numerous expert reports and investigations, gathered over a number of 
years. Whilst Ive read and considered everything, I wont comment specifically on 
each and every piece of evidence provided. Ill focus on the points that I consider are 
key to the outcome of the complaint.
Ill summarise the parts of the warranty document that are relevant to this dispute and 
set out what that means.
Policy cover
Section 3.3, the structural insurance period, provides cover for rectifying work to the 
housing unit which has been affected by major damage.
The phrase major damage means physical damage caused by a defect in the 
design, workmanship, materials or components of the structure of the housing unit. 
The structure includes the foundations.
In summary, that means the warranty covers damage if it can be shown:
There was a defect in the foundation design, and 
That defect has caused the damage
The dispute in summary
Theres no dispute the house has suffered damage. But theres disagreement about 
whether both the points above have been fulfilled  what caused the damage and 
whether its the result of a defect in the foundation design.
Three areas of vegetation have been implicated in causing damage to the house  
the Oak tree, a group of Cypress trees, and other vegetation that was removed to 
develop the site prior to construction.
The Cypress trees were planted by a neighbour after the house was built. That 
means the design of the foundation couldnt have taken them into account. And it 
wouldnt amount to a defect if the foundation wasnt deep enough to withstand the 
impact of them. So if these trees are the sole cause of the damage, both points 
havent been fulfilled and it would be fair for Amtrust to decline the claim. Amtrust 
says this is what happened.The Oak tree was present when the house was built. And the other vegetation had 
been removed shortly before construction. So both of these areas should have been 
taken into account when designing the foundation. If they werent, that may amount 
to a defect. And if that has caused some damage, both points have been fulfilled and 
Amtrust should accept the claim. Mr and Mrs H think this is what happened.
Ill review the expert reports and investigations and go to consider whether both 
points have been fulfilled.
Expert reports and investigation
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence gathered by the loss adjuster for X in 2017.
The loss adjuster carried out investigations to establish the foundation was 1,500mm 
deep and built on clay. Root samples were found beneath the foundation, to a depth 
of 2,100mm and identified as Cypress and Oak. The loss adjuster concluded the 
property was suffering from subsidence due to tree root induced clay shrinkage from 
the Oak and the group of Cypress trees. It went on to say that guidelines provided by 
a certain builder of new homes, N, recommended a foundation depth of at least 
2,450mm to account for the Cypress trees. It didnt say what recommendations N 
would have made for the Oak tree alone.
The loss adjusters involvement ended shortly after this, when the claim under Xs 
policy was declined and Mr and Mrs H got in touch with Amtrust. But at this stage 
they had identified both the Oak and the group of Cypress trees as contributing to the 
subsidence problem and causing damage.
Amtrust setup monitoring in 2017 and initially took readings until late 2018. During 
that time, it took advice from a structural engineer Ill refer to as S.
S initially said it wasnt entirely convinced the damage had been caused by 
subsidence and recommended further investigation. But it said the Oak tree would 
have been the most important factor when designing the foundation. And using the 
guidelines of N, the foundation should have been at least 1,9500mm at the front left 
corner to account for it.
As readings were collected during 2018, S reviewed them and the results of other 
investigations. It produced a second report late that year. I dont think any of this has 
been shared with Mr and Mrs H.
S said the investigations showed the clay subsoil was very dry and considered to be 
desiccated having been affected by the nearby Oak tree. It said there was no doubt 
the movement was related to the impact of the Oak tree on the clay subsoil and 
made recommendations for how to put that right.
It concluded the foundation was inadequate to take into account the Oak tree based 
on the guidelines of N. It noted Amtrust had more recently introduced guidance for 
foundation depths and these also showed the foundation to be inadequate, although 
this guidance didnt apply at the time of construction. Lastly, S noted a trend of 
upward movement in the monitoring. It said the foundation didnt have heave 
protection and warned heave could be problematic and should be considered subject 
to further monitoring.
Amtrust sought a second opinion and asked a chartered surveyor, R, to consider the 
matter. It agreed there had been a subsidence problem. It said this was due to the combined effect of all the nearby vegetation, the dry weather, and the depth of the 
foundation. It didnt go on to comment specifically on whether the Oak was 
contributing to the problem or not  nor whether the foundation was adequate or not.
Mr and Mrs H sought advice from V, a structural engineer, in 2019. It inspected, gave 
an initial report, arranged for further investigation including an arborist report and 
distortion survey, and then produced a second report in 2020. In summary it said:
The evidence showed there had been subsidence and upward movement. 
Because the level monitoring hadnt been carried out relative to a fixed 
reference point, it was difficult to be certain exactly what movement had 
occurred. But relative to each other, the monitoring points showed the 
property sloping from right to left  toward the Oak tree  and this distortion 
had likely occurred after construction.
Previous investigations had confirmed the foundation was 1,500m deep. It 
should have been at least 2,000mm deep to take the Oak tree into account.
Trees that had been felled prior to building the house could account for the 
upward movement. Anti-heave measures should have been taken into 
account when designing the foundation.
It thought the damage was too widespread to have been caused by the 
Cypress trees alone. Had they been the sole cause, recovery and 
stabilisation would likely have followed their removal. But the monitoring 
showed continued movement.
An arborist agreed with the findings related to the trees and their likely impact on the 
property.
Amtrust responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in early 2020. It agreed there had 
been subsidence and upward movement, which it said was due to ground recovery 
following the removal of the Cypress trees in 2017. It said the crack monitoring hadnt 
shown any significant movement, showing the property to be stable for 33 months. 
As the Oak tree remained in place during this time, it thought this showed the Oak 
wasnt having an impact and the Cypress trees had been shown to be the cause of 
the subsidence problem.
Monitoring recommenced soon after and Ive seen a further year of level readings up 
to early 2021 and a couple of crack readings. Theres been little change to the crack 
widths but persistent upward movement in the level monitoring.
I havent seen expert commentary on these more recent readings. But I do note 
comments made internally by Amtrust much earlier in the claim about factors to 
consider:
Ns guidelines recommended a minimum foundation of 1,950mm.
Heave protection should have been added.
The foundation was designed by an engineer with heave protection  but this 
wasnt how it was built.
When the foundation was installed, a significant amount of Oak tree roots 
would have been cut, leading to heave forces acting on the foundation.
And, after further monitoring:
The upward trend in 2018 could be recovery  but it could also be upward 
heave movement near to the Oak tree.If the upward movement continued beyond 2018, it would suggest heave from 
the severed Oak tree roots.
Level monitoring should have been setup with an independent reference 
point.
Was there a defect in the foundation design?
There seems to be broad agreement amongst the experts that the foundation was 
inadequate.
The loss adjuster for X based that judgement on the Cypress tress, which the design 
couldnt have taken into account, so Ive disregarded their findings on this point.
S and V both thought the foundation ought to have been around 2,000mm deep and 
internally Amtrust seems to have agreed with this too. Similarly, theres agreement 
that heave protection should have been included. Its unclear what Rs opinion on this 
is but it hasnt put forward an argument to say why the foundation was adequate.
Amtrust says the judgements of S and V are based on the guidelines of N  which 
dont strictly apply to Amtrust. It has its own set of guidelines. At the time of 
construction that didnt include specific foundation depths. It later produced this kind 
of guidance. S considers the foundation inadequate by those standards  although 
they didnt strictly apply at the time.
Amtrust has shown that at the time of construction, it used a Technical Manual which 
set out many standards for building. Whilst there werent specific foundation depths, 
there were other relevant guidelines. These include:
All work undertaken shall comply with all relevant Building Regulations, 
including designing and constructing the foundation in accordance with 
Requirement A2
Design and specifications shall provide a satisfactory level of performance
Foundations shall be designed and constructed so that they are suitable for 
the size, form of construction and location of the Housing Unit in relation to 
the nature and load-bearing capacity of the ground and site conditions
Foundations should be designed and constructed to allow for possible 
movements in the ground caused by swelling or shrinkage of the subsoil, or 
subsidence, due to the weather, the presence of trees or some other cause
At the time of construction, Requirement A2 said something similar to the final bullet 
point above. The Regulations go on to give guidance about how to achieve this. 
Amongst other things, it says foundations in clay soil should be at least 750mm deep 
but will commonly need to be increased. It says this should be to a depth where 
anticipated ground movement will not impair the stability of the building, taking due 
consideration of the influence or vegetation and trees.
Regulations dont specify how much deeper the foundation should be. Thats a 
judgement for the designer to make based on the specific conditions of the site. I 
havent seen any evidence to show why 1,500mm was thought to be sufficient to take 
into account the Oak tree and other recently removed vegetation.
The evidence shows the experts consider this depth was inadequate. Theyve used 
guidance they think is reasonable in order to make a judgement about the appropriate foundation depth in the particular circumstances of this site. I havent 
seen any alternative expert judgements. 
Overall, Im satisfied the evidence shows the foundation was inadequate and 
amounts to a defect in the design. That means the first point has been fulfilled.
Did that defect cause the damage?
To recap, the opinions of the experts are:
The loss adjuster for X thought the Oak and the Cypress trees were both 
contributing to subsidence due to an inadequate foundation
S thought the Oak tree was causing subsidence and there may be a heave 
problem caused by the foundation
R noted that all vegetation and the foundation depth were contributing to the 
subsidence problem
V said the Oak tree was the main cause of subsidence and noted a heave 
problem with the foundation
Internally Amtrust acknowledged a potential heave problem with the 
foundation which continued monitoring seems to support
Im satisfied the weight of expert opinion points firmly to the inadequate foundation 
causing damage  possibly by subsidence, heave or some combination of the two  
as the Oak tree is thought to have caused at least some damage. And it may be the 
dominant cause. Overall this means the defect has caused damage  and that fulfils 
the second of the two points.
Amtrust took a different view when it answered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I find it 
hard to reconcile that view with the expert evidence. In part its position was based on 
the monitoring showing stability over a prolonged period of time. But this isnt 
supported by the evidence.
Whilst the crack monitoring hasnt shown the amount of movement usually 
considered to be significant, the level monitoring has. In late 2018 all points were 
showing upward movement relative to point one, some by around 7mm. In the more 
recent readings, that had increased for all points, particularly those on the left side of 
the property, and some by more than 10mm. Point five, on the left side, had 
increased by over 15mm. The trend for upward movement was continuing and hasnt 
shown signs of levelling out. In my experience, most structural engineers find level 
monitoring more precise and insightful than crack monitoring. So Im not persuaded 
the level monitoring can be disregarded.
Because of this, Im not satisfied the monitoring shows stability. On the contrary, it 
shows continued movement. After removing the Cypress trees, a degree of upward 
movement is expected as the ground recovers, rehydrates and swells. The 
monitoring shows upward movement taking place three to four years after removal of 
the trees, which is an unusually long period of time. Im not satisfied Amtrust has 
adequately explained how the monitoring evidence supports its position.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im not satisfied it was fair for Amtrust to decline the 
claim. It should now accept the claim.It will need to take steps to determine the cause of the movement. Amtrust should 
bear in mind its required to carry out a lasting and effective repair of the damage 
caused by the defect. That means ensuring the building is stable and then carrying 
out suitable repairs.
Ive considered the history of the claim and Im satisfied Amtrust should have 
accepted it much earlier. It had a thorough report from S, based on investigations, 
and the other internal comments Ive noted in late 2018. Despite that, it turned to R, 
which didnt add meaningful to the available information. Amtrust received further 
detailed information from V, based on further investigations, in 2019, but still chose to 
decline the claim. Its reasoning was inconsistent with the evidence gathered and the 
weight of expert opinion.
Because of this, Im not satisfied Amtrust treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled the claim. It caused avoidable delays reaching the stage of 
accepting the claim in the order of 2-3 years.
During that time Mr and Mrs H have seen the damage get worse and faced the 
uncertainty of when it will be dealt with and how it will be paid for. Theyve 
understandably been concerned about the stability of their home and the impact the 
damage has on their ability to remortgage and/or sell it in the future. Whilst a claim of 
this nature will inevitably cause a degree of distress and inconvenience to the 
owners, the way Amtrust has handled this claim has unnecessarily increased that 
significantly and over a prolonged period of time. For that reason, I think Amtrust 
should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs H. Im satisfied £2,500 is reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H have also spent money gathering expert advice. I understand they paid 
for Vs reports and associated distortion survey and arborist report. Had Amtrust 
relied on the expert evidence it already had, it wouldnt have been necessary for Mr 
and Mrs H to pay to show their claim was covered. And more recently theyve paid 
for a further expert report to support their position. I havent included it in my findings 
because I dont think Amtrust have seen it and had the chance to comment on it.
I think Amtrust should reimburse Mr and Mrs H the cost of those reports. They should 
provide the invoices in response to this provisional decision. And because theyve 
been without the money unnecessarily, Amtrust should add interest when it makes 
the payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mrs H responded and said, in summary:
They support the conclusions I reached.
From the outset, they felt Amtrust was focused on declining the claim and hadnt 
taken a fair and honest approach  particularly as some of the expert evidence I 
relied upon hadnt previously been shared by Amtrust.
As a result of the way the claim has been handled, they have no confidence in 
Amtrust and R. Theyre concerned about the next steps for the claim, noting the work 
to design and implement an effective solution will be significant.
Amtrust didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs H accepted my findings and Amtrust didnt respond, I see no reason to 
change my mind or comment on those points any further.
Ill focus on the points made by Mr and Mrs H in response to my provisional decision.
I understand why they feel let down by Amtrust. It had the opportunity to reach this stage of 
the claim much sooner, which would have avoided a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience for them. It also had the opportunity to be more open with them about the 
expert information it had gathered and the impact this had on the claim.
Amtrust have a duty to treat their policyholders fairly and they failed to fulfil it here. I remain 
satisfied my award, including significant compensation, is a fair remedy for what happened. 
But its important Amtrust takes this duty into account when it handles the remainder of the 
claim. As Mr and Mrs H have noted, the problem and the steps to put it right may be 
significant. So Amtrust will need to act fairly, promptly and openly to restore Mr and Mrs Hs 
trust and ensure the claim progresses in an appropriate way.
If Mr and Mrs H have further cause for complaint about what happens next, theyll be entitled 
to do so. But I would expect Amtrust to take steps to ensure thats not necessary.
It wouldnt be appropriate for me at this stage to dictate exactly what should happen next. 
Both parties will need to work together to progress the claim. But Mr and Mrs H would like to 
be involved in deciding who is appointed, and I understand they have individuals in mind.
So I think it would be reasonable for Amtrust to take into account any suggestions Mr and 
Mrs H would like to make. Given the way Amtrust has handled the claim, it should be open 
and clear with them about the next steps and any relevant information gathered. It should 
also bear in mind theyve lost faith in R and consider appointing a different individual.
As part of handling the claim fairly and reasonably and ensuring a lasting and effective repair 
of the damage caused by the defect, Amtrust should rely on suitably qualified and 
experienced individuals. In a claim like this, that would usually mean paying for a chartered 
structural engineer with relevant experience in resolving building movement problems.
The next steps will be for Amtrust to determine the cause of the continued movement 
resulting from the defect  and what the appropriate solution is to stop the movement  then 
repair the damage caused by the defect.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Accept the claim
Reimburse the cost of the reports, subject to receipt of the invoices
Pay simple interest at 8% per year on each invoiced amount, from the date each one 
was paid by Mr and Mrs H until the date this award is paid to them 
Pay £2,500 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman