DRN-3446157
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased the credit
limit on his credit account on several occasions, which Mr C feels were unaffordable for him
at those times.
What happened
Mr C had a Barclays credit account with a credit limit of £2,000. In December 2015, Barclays
increased Mr Cs credit limit to £3,500. Further credit limit increases followed in September
2016  to £6,700  February and October 2017  to £9,000 and £10,500 respectively  and
July 2018  to £11,700.
In July 2020, following a broad internal review, Barclays sent Mr C a letter which explained
that it may have been the case that theyd given Mr C a higher credit limit on his account
than should have been the case, and which invited Mr C to contact them if he felt that this
was the case. Mr C subsequently raised a complaint with Barclays as he felt that the
provisions of further credit that Barclays had provided him had been unaffordable for him at
those times.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint. But they felt that upon inspection, they hadnt offered
any further credit to Mr C irresponsibly and that thered been nothing in any of the checks
that they had undertaken before offering further credit to Mr C that should have given them
any causes to suspect that he might not be able to afford the further credit being offered to
him. However, while Barclays didnt feel that they had provided Mr C with unaffordable
credit, they acknowledged that it may have been the case that they provided with a higher
level of affordable credit than should have been the case, and they apologised to Mr C for
this and offered him a payment of £75 by way of compensation.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that there had
been anything in the information that Barclays had reasonably assessed before offering
further credit to Mr C that should have given them cause to suspect that the further credit
might be unaffordable for Mr C. And our investigator also felt that the £75 that Barclays had
offered Mr C for potentially providing too much affordable credit already represented a fair
and reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 February 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here, and confirm that before offering any further
credit to Mr C they reviewed how he had managed his credit account up to that time,
and also obtained information from a credit reference agency to gain a better
understanding of Mr Cs wider financial position. And Barclays maintain that there
was nothing resulting from any of the checks that they undertook that they feel
should have suggested to them that Mr C might not be able to afford the further credit
being offered to him.
Considering the first credit limit increase, from £2,000 to £3,500 that took place in
December 2015, its notable from the credit account statements in the months
leading up to that credit limit increase that Mr C was maintain the balance of the
account within the credit limit and didnt incur any over-limit fees which might have
been indicative that Mr C was experiencing financial difficulties at that time.
Additionally, the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency
about Mr C didnt suggest that an increase in the credit limit of the account to £3,500
would be unaffordable for him.
However, while the assessment made by the credit reference agency does include
an assessment of Mr Cs monthly income, as understood by that credit reference
agency, its notable that Mr Cs current account was also held with Barclays such that
Mr Cs actual monthly income amount was available to Barclays at that time and
could have been used by them when assessing the affordability of the further credit
for Mr C. And it appears from Mr Cs current account statements that he was
receiving approximately £2,500 per month into his account at that time, equivalent to
a net annual income of approximately £30,000.
It's also seems that the information that Barclays obtained from the credit reference
agency confirmed Mr Cs total existing external (non-Barclays) credit in the month
before the credit limit increase as being approximately £11,500. In addition to this
external credit, Mr C also held another Barclays credit account which at that time had
a credit limit of £9,500, as well as the credit account under consideration here, which
had a credit limit of £2,000 before the credit limit increase.
This means that prior to the credit limit increase, it appears that Mr C already had
outstanding credit facilities totalling approximately £22,000, which equates to roughly
73% of his net annual income. This is a significant amount, and given that it seem
apparent that Mr C, with the amount of monthly income that he had, would have
struggled to repay such a large amount of credit in a reasonable amount of time, I
find it difficult to conclude that Barclays were acting responsibly when they provided
further credit to Mr C here, increasing the credit limit on this account by £1,500 so
that Mr Cs total credit amount was approximately £23,500, which was close to 80%
of his net annual income.
At the very least, I feel that the fact that Mr C had such a large combined credit
facility should have prompted Barclays to undertake further checks into Mr Cs
financial position before offering any additional credit. And, having reviewed Mr Cs
Barclays current account statements for the period leading up to this credit limit
increase  which it seems reasonable should have been reviewed by Barclays aspart of any additional checks  these appear to show that Mr Cs account incomings
were roughly equal to his monthly outgoings, which included several payments to
other credit providers and which resulted in Mr Cs current account being maintained
largely within his agreed overdraft. And I feel that this gives further cause for concern
that Mr C might not, in all likelihood, have been reasonably able to afford any further
credit at that time.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays did act fairly towards
Mr C by providing him with further credit here, given Mr Cs substantial existing credit
and his ability to repay that credit with the monthly income and existing financial
commitments that Mr C had, and it follows from this that my provisional decision will
be that I am upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour on that basis.
As such, my provisional instructions to Barclays include that they must reimburse to
Mr Cs account all interest and charges accrued or incurred on the account from the
point of the credit limit increase to £3,500 in December 2015 onwards. Barclays must
also reimburse to Mr Cs account all interest accrued on the account on any portion
of the account balance over £2,000 from the point of that same credit limit in
December 2015 increase onwards. If these reimbursements result in a credit balance
in Mr Cs favour, Barclays must pay this balance to Mr C along with 8% interest
calculated to the date of payment.
Finally, Barclays must make an additional payment of £200 to Mr C to compensate
him for the trouble and upset this ongoing matter has caused. This further payment
may not take the form or a credit to Mr Cs credit account, unless Mr C gives his
permission for it to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr C and Barclays the opportunity to provide
any comments or new information they might wish to consider before I moved to a final
decision. Mr M confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas
Barclays did provide some comments for my consideration.
Chief amongst these was an explanation from Barclays that I had misunderstood the
information that Barclays had obtained from the credit reference agencies, specifically that
the amount of Mr Ms listed external credit that I referred to didnt in fact refer to the amount
of the amount of non-Barclays credit that Mr M held, but instead referred to the sum of all
other credit accounts that Mr M held, including other Barclays credit accounts.
This means that the calculations of Mr Ms debt-to-income ratio that formed an important part
of my provisional decision were incorrect, and Barclays therefore asked me to reassess this
complaint on that basis. As such, I reviewed my provisional decision, and I issued a second 
provisional decision on 30 March 2022 as follows:
Its clear that for the credit limit raise from £2,000 to £3,500 in December 2015, rather 
than increasing Mr Ms total credit facilities from 72% to 80% of his net annual 
income, as I had previously believed, it now appears that this credit limit increase 
raised Mr Ms total credit facilities from 45% of his net annual income before the 
credit limit increase, to 50% of his net annual income after the credit limit increase.
This is still a significant amount of credit, and while its approaching what I would 
consider to be a potentially unsustainable amount of credit for a consumer with Mr 
Ms net annual income at that time, I dont feel that Barclays providing this further 
credit to Mr M exceeds the bounds of reasonableness in this instance. And so, 
having reconsidered this credit limit increase, I now feel that it wasnt unfair for 
Barclays to have offered this further credit to Mr M at this point.However, I dont feel that the next credit limit increase, from £3,500 to £6,700, that 
took place in September 2016, can be considered as being fair or reasonable on a 
similar basis. This is because Mr Ms total amount of external credit was 
approximately £9,900 at that time. Additionally, Mr M also had an outstanding loan 
balance of approximately £1,500, as well as an existing credit facility on the credit 
account under consideration here of £3,500. This mean that Mr M had total credit 
and loan facilities of approximately £14,900 at that time.
Having reviewed Mr Ms Barclays current statements for the six months prior to the 
credit limit increase, it appears that Mr Ms net annual income had decreased slightly, 
to approximately £26,500. This means that before the credit limit increase to £6,700, 
Mr M already had credit facilities totalling approximately 56% of his net annual 
income, and following the credit limit increase this percentage figure rises to over 
68% - which I dont feel can be considered as being a reasonably sustainable 
amount in these circumstances.
Additionally, Mr Ms Barclays account statements, while not showing that Mr M was 
using his overdraft as much as at the time of the last credit limit increase, continued 
to show that he was using his overdraft regularly and that his monthly outgoings 
largely matched his income. Finally, its also notable that Mr M was in the process of 
paying off a short-term payday loan at the time of the credit limit increase, which I 
feel should have been a further indicator to Barclays that Mr M might not be able to 
reasonably afford the further credit that Barclays were considering offering to him.
All of which means that my updated decision is that I will be provisionally upholding 
this complaint in Mr Ms favour from the point of the credit limit increase from £3,500 
to £6,700 in September 2016 onwards. This is because I dont feel that this credit 
limit increase was fair and reasonable for the reasons explained above.
As such, my provisional instructions to Barclays include that they must reimburse to 
Mr Cs account all fees and charges incurred on the account from the point of the 
credit limit increase to £6,700 in September 2016 onwards.
Barclays must also reimburse to Mr Cs account all interest accrued on the account 
on any portion of the account balance above £3,500 from the point of that same 
credit limit in September 2016 increase onwards.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mr Cs favour, Barclays must 
pay this balance to Mr C along with 8% interest calculated to the date of payment.
Barclays must also remove any adverse credit reporting from Mr Ms credit file from
September 2016 onwards.
Finally, Barclays must make an additional payment of £200 to Mr C to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset hes incurred. This further payment may not take the 
form or a credit to Mr Cs credit account unless Mr C gives his permission for it to do 
so.
In my second provisional decision letter, I again gave both Mr C and Barclays the 
opportunity to provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider 
before I moved to a final decision. 
On this occasion, both Mr C and Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my 
amended provisional decision. As such, I seen no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour on the basis explained in my amended provisional 
decision letter, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint in 
Mr Cs favour accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse to Mr Cs account all fees and charges incurred on the account 
from the point of the credit limit increase to £6,700 in September 2016 onwards.
Barclays must also reimburse to Mr Cs account all interest accrued on the account on any 
portion of the account balance above £3,500 from the point of that same credit limit in 
September 2016 increase onwards.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mr Cs favour, Barclays must pay this 
balance to Mr C along with 8% interest calculated to the date of payment.
Barclays must also remove any adverse credit reporting from Mr Ms credit file from 
September 2016 onwards.
Finally, Barclays must make an additional payment of £200 to Mr C to compensate him for 
the trouble and upset hes incurred. This further payment may not take the form or a credit to 
Mr Cs credit account unless Mr C gives his permission for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman