DRN-2694625
The complaint
Mr S has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has undervalued his van following a 
total loss claim when his van was deemed a write-off after an accident. 
What happened
Mr Ss van was written off following a total loss claim. Following some discussion about the 
value of the van, UKI offered Mr S £3,750 as a total loss settlement, plus an additional £580 
for a fitted tow bar and business signage. 
But Mr S wants UKI to pay what he thinks the van is worth. Mr S says to get a like for like 
replacement it would cost him £5,000 +VAT. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied that 
the valuation placed on the van by UKI was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. 
But Mr S doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S is unhappy with the valuation that UKI has placed on his van. Mr S says he has 
experience in the motor trade, and hes argued that the valuation provided by the standard 
motor trade guides is not correct. Mr S says the guides used to calculate these values are 
not up to date and the valuations are not representative of the actual selling price of vans 
from his date of loss. Hes provided a number of valuations from various different sellers 
online to support his argument. Hes also provided an article which sets out that van sales 
have seen an unprecedent surge in lockdown, and because of an increase in demand, 
sellers are seeing prices rise substantially on a daily basis. Hes concerned this is not been 
reflected in the motor trade guides. Mr S also says that hes having great difficulty finding a 
van to match the high spec and condition of his van, and that £3,750 doesnt come near to 
what hed expect to pay for something similar.
Our approach is to consider whether UKI has settled Mr Ss claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the policy 
and the offer made in order to determine whether UKI have acted fairly. I can see that in the 
event the van cant be repaired, UKI wont pay more than the market value of the van at the 
time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of the same make 
and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our usual approach to complaints about car or van valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised 
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the 
mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower 
price than advertised. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare 
model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ss van at the time of the incident 
and they produced the following valuations: 
CAP £3,100; Glasss £2,255 and Cazana £3,339. However, as this is a van, valuations are 
exclusive of VAT. Mr S has confirmed hes not VAT registered, so VAT needs to be added to 
these valuations. Once VAT is included the actual valuations are as follows CAP £3,720, 
Glasss £3,026 and Cazana £4,006.
UKI has offered a value of £3,750. And looking at the three guide prices together our 
approach would be to say this is fair as normally we might think its reasonable to ignore any 
outlying valuation. So, if we discount the lower Glass valuation, we would expect UKI to offer 
between £3,720 and £4,006 for this van. And after some negotiation, a price within this 
range is what its offered. 
But I dont want to discount Mr Ss research. Hes put forward a substantial number of 
valuations, and I want to also take these into account. The criteria that drive the price are so 
varied, and some very specific criteria such as age, mileage, or additional extras play a big 
part in determining the price. Because of this it makes sense to rely on the guides and also 
use the data provided by Mr S to make sure the valuation is fair. 
Mr S has advised that hes struggling to find online a van with the same spec, engine size, 
mileage, ownership and service history. So, hes provided a number of examples for long 
and short wheel base specifications, 1.3 and 1.6 litre engines and different speeds. They 
cover a multitude of years from 2010 to 2013, and a wide variety of mileages. And what 
stands out to me is that the younger vehicles with lower mileage are the ones that push the 
price up to the price that Mr S expects to get for his vehicle. For example, a 2012 model with 
three owners and similar mileage is advertised for £3,500, whereas a similar one with less 
than 100,000 miles will be advertised for £4,000 or more. But I note that a 2013 model with 
lower mileage will cost more. 
But we can only really take into account a like for like example, or as close to it as we 
possibly can. So older and younger examples wont always reflect a true valuation. And I 
also need to point out that its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Ss 
vehicle. Its our role to make sure UKI is giving Mr S a fair price. And based on the 
information provided about Mr Ss van and using the trade guides alongside the evidence Mr 
S has submitted, I think £3,750 (inclusive of VAT) is a fair price.
Another argument that Mr S makes is that the guides are not up to date, and theyre not 
taking into account the live circumstances of whats really happening in the market, namely 
the surge in value of commercial vans during Covid19. Helpfully the Cazana valuation tool also provides us with details of similar specification vehicles that have sold in the UK. And 
from this information I can see that similarly aged vehicles, with a wide variety of mileage, 
ranging from 60,000 to 120,000, all sold for between £2,000 and £4,000, all inside the last 
10 months in the UK.
Because of this Im satisfied that the market value that UKI has placed on Mr Ss vehicle is 
fair and reasonable. I also note that UKI paid Mr S an additional £580 for extras such as a 
tow bar and signage. So, I wont be asking UKI to do any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman