DRN-1783061
The complaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) incorrectly recorded a claim 
against his home insurance, when he was informing them of an incident for information only 
purposes. 
What happened
Mr T had recently bought a new property and arranged his home insurance with RSA. On 7 
October 2019 he called to let RSA know there had been an escape of water through a roof. 
He explained he was calling for information purposes only. 
During the call, Mr T gave details of the incident including where the water was coming 
through. The call handler explained the excess on the policy and that they would send 
someone out to inspect the damage. They further explained the inspection would either 
result in the claim being covered or declined. Mr T finished the call asking for confirmation 
that if it was declined a claim wouldn't be recorded. Mr T's understanding was confirmed as 
correct. 
The damage was subsequently inspected and Mr T told it wouldn't be covered under the 
policy as it had happened gradually over time. The following day Mr T contacted RSA to see 
if he could have a copy of the report as it could potentially help with action against the 
property surveyor who carried out the home-buyer report (and didn't note any concerns). It 
was during this call that Mr T was informed an inspection should never have been carried 
out; they simply should have recorded the information provided on its records; it had been 
recorded as a claim and now it had incurred costs by sending someone out to inspect the 
damage. 
Mr T was unhappy with this as he didn't want the matter recorded as a claim against the 
policy; it wasn't something he had ever intended claiming for. So he complained. 
RSA upheld the complaint in part, although it agreed Mr T did notify it he was calling for 
notification purposes only, it considered it was clear RSA was treating it as a claim. 
However, it confirmed it would change CUE (Claims and Underwriting Exchange Register) to 
show the matter was reported for information purposes rather than declined. 
Not happy with the outcome Mr T asked us to look into his complaint. He was unhappy with 
how he had been dealt with, and the delays in responding to his concerns. He was also 
unhappy that the matter would be recorded as information only with fees incurred. 
Our investigator was satisfied that it was right for the matter to be recorded on CUE and 
found RSA'S offer to record it as information only was fair. She also clarified the fees weren't 
recorded against it.  But she felt Mr T had been given confusing information in the 
notification call he had with RSA and the following call had been inappropriate. So she asked 
RSA to pay Mr T £50 for the inconvenience the matter had caused. 
Initially RSA agreed to this to settle the complaint. But it ultimately didn't think it had done 
anything wrong or that £50 compensation was warranted. Mr T also disagreed with the 
outcome. He was unhappy RSA had delayed his complaint with this office and that he hadn't been treated well. He wants it confirmed in writing that CUE only has the matter recorded as 
information only and that his no claims bonus hasn't been affected. The investigator 
confirmed his policy wasn't subject to a no claims bonus. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure both Mr T and RSA that I have read and considered everything in its entirety. 
Having done so, there is little I can add the investigator's findings. 
As she set out, the policy provides that information about any incident will be recorded on 
CUE regardless of whether there is a claim or not. In my experience this is standard practice 
by all insurers. RSA has already confirmed in writing that it will change how the matter has 
been recorded on CUE to 'information purposes' in its final response letter. So I don't require 
it to confirm this in writing again. 
I accept that Mr T ought to have realised the matter was being dealt with as a claim in the 
initial call. The call handler referred to the damage being inspected and him being told 
whether there had been an insurable event or if the claim would be declined. So I can 
understand RSA comments about that, to some extent. However, I can't ignore what was 
said at the end of the call, where it was confirmed that if the claim was declined it wouldn't 
be recorded as a claim. So I accept that confusion was caused unnecessarily. And I think its 
accepted by all the parties that had RSA treated this as reporting for information purposes 
only, as it ought to have done, an inspection wouldn't have been carried out. So Mr T was 
caused some inconvenience by that, and by following up with RSA about the outcome of the 
inspection. 
However, I also need to take into account that Mr T benefited from having the inspection 
done. Indeed, he confirms this in a call with RSA as, I understand, he intended to use the 
report provided to support his action against the property surveyor who conducted the home-
buyer report.   And I have taken this into account when deciding what level of compensation 
is appropriate. Having thought about this, I find £50 to be a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience Mr T was put to. 
I understand Mr T is unhappy with delays in having this matter considered. But we don't look 
into complaint handling per se, and I note RSA did issue its final response within the eight 
weeks allowed for under complaint handling rules. And although there were delays in us 
receiving some of the information we asked for, I can't see how this has put Mr T to any 
more trouble - we were then investigating the matter. I therefore make no further award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr T £50.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman