DRN-3008535
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cofunds Limited has not given him a full explanation of how ongoing 
and transaction charges for his account are calculated.
What happened
Mr G holds his Suffolk Life Master SIPP on the Cofunds platform. Over the last few years, it 
has contained investments in four funds. There has been an ongoing correspondence 
between Mr G and Cofunds during this period concerning the charges relating to the four 
funds. 
The general circumstances and issues are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
in detail here. Over the course of the correspondence Cofunds has acknowledged some 
customer service issues and that inaccurate information concerning a one-off charge applied 
to one of the funds was provided to Mr G. It offered £150 in vouchers for these issues, which 
Mr G accepted. 
The remaining issue is that set out above  that Mr G feels Cofunds has failed to 
satisfactorily explain how the ongoing and transaction charges information that it provides in 
its annual breakdown of charges is calculated.
In an attempt to address this issue, Cofunds supplied some more detailed information to 
Mr G and looked to see if more could be done to report on the information from an IT 
perspective. But at the same time, it stressed that as an investment platform its responsibility 
was to hold the funds as opposed to advise on them and, as such, it didnt specialise in fund 
information. 
Cofunds explained that details could be obtained from fund information documents, or 
through discussion with a financial adviser. It said its information about ongoing and 
transaction charges was obtained from the fund managers, via a third-party supplier, and 
provided on the breakdown of charges document issued to Mr G, which Cofunds ultimately 
felt satisfied its regulatory requirements. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said in brief:
Cofunds provided Mr G with extended cost breakdown summaries which showed 
more detail about the cost and charges that were applied.
Cofunds don't hold information about charges. Its information is obtained from the 
relevant fund manager by a third-party supplier. 
The extended cost breakdown summaries that Cofunds have already provided 
represent a fair and reasonable response to Mr Gs query.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
As it appears that the issues concerning delays and the incorrect one-off charge applied are 
resolved, the issue Im considering here is whether Cofunds has acted incorrectly or unfairly 
in respect the Costs and charges information it provides to Mr G, specifically that 
concerning the ongoing and transaction charges. 
These are not Cofunds charges, applied in relation to provision of its platform services. They 
are investment charges that relate specifically to the funds Mr G chooses to hold on 
Cofunds platform. 
Unlike charges that Cofunds might apply for its own services, the ongoing and transaction 
charges aren't actually deducted from his account as such. Rather, they are built into the 
pricing of the fund units. As the documentation provided to Mr G shows, they are costs for 
running the fund  management, valuation, legal fees, etc  and also those incurred by the 
fund managers for buying and selling assets. Information about the charges for each fund is 
available in the Key Investor Information Document (KIID).
Cofunds has confirmed that it receives the rate information from the relevant fund managers, 
via a third party, and this is then shown as a monetary value. I appreciate Mr G would like 
more granular information about the fund managers charges. But I dont think theres any 
obligation on Cofunds to supply it. Im satisfied that it reasonably provides all the pricing 
information it is required to. And it does so in a manner that appears to be in line with 
general industry practice. Im also satisfied that Cofunds has made reasonable attempts to 
try to help Mr G further by providing the extended breakdown information.
I appreciate my decision with be disappointing and frustrating for Mr G. But I cannot 
reasonably direct Cofunds to provide information it isnt required to.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman