DRN-1535993
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declined the claim he made on his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Ws dog developed a swelling on her face, so Mr W took her to the vets. 
The vets werent certain what had caused the swelling. But Mr W says the vet explained it 
might be a bite or sting, a dental problem or something else.
Following the consultation and some initial treatment, Mr W was given the option to book 
some dental x-rays, or to monitor the situation before deciding to go ahead with this. Mr W 
decided to monitor the swelling before any more treatment or investigation was done. But he 
booked a dental x-ray appointment in case that became necessary. The next day, the 
swelling had reduced and was gone by the day after that. So no x-rays were done.
Mr W made a claim for his dogs treatment under his pet insurance policy. Red Sands 
declined this, on the basis that dental and gum treatment were excluded under the policy. 
Mr W challenged Red Sands decision. He said that the exact cause of the swelling hadnt 
been identified. But it had reduced as a result of the initial treatment with anti-inflammatories 
and pain relief. And so it was most likely to have been caused by an insect bite or sting  
which should be covered. He pointed out that no dental investigation or treatment had been 
done.
Red Sands considered his challenge but didnt change their position. They based this on the 
fact that the vet suggested when they saw Mr Ws dog: 
that the most likely cause was a tooth root abscess and no evidence to suggest the cause 
was not a dental issue
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Red Sands reply, so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered it and came to the conclusion that Red Sands should reconsider Mr 
Ws claim. She said that the vets notes didnt identify any cause of the swelling as the most 
likely. She noted the vet had said on the claim form that the cause was unknown, and the vet 
hadnt been able to inspect the area. And she found the report from a second vet, which said 
the most likely cause of the swelling was a bite or sting, to be persuasive.
Red Sands didnt agree with the investigators view. They said the further investigation the 
vets had suggested showed the vets suspected the swelling was related to a dental issue. 
And this entitled them to decline the claim. Because of this, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws insurance policy clearly states that any dental or gum treatment is excluded from 
cover. But thats not the issue here. Mr W thinks the claim should be covered because his 
dog wasnt suffering from a dental issue. 
To assist them in assessing the claim, Red Sands received records and documents from   
Mr Ws vets. The records dont show that any specific cause of the swelling was identified  
although the possibility that it was a dental problem was discussed. Arrangements were 
made for Mr Ws dog to have x-rays to investigate any dental issues. But these were never 
carried out  and no claim was made for any dental investigations  because the swelling 
went away following treatment with anti-inflammatory drugs. A senior vet wrote to Red 
Sands confirming this.
Im persuaded by this that the treating vets didnt believe the swelling was related to a dental 
issue. And Im not persuaded by Red Sands arguments that an initial suspicion of a 
particular cause means its reasonable for them to decline the claim. The policy excludes 
treatment of certain conditions. But, if seeking to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, 
Red Sands need to show its more likely than not that an exclusion applies. And given the 
above, I dont think theyve done that here. The policy doesnt extend to excluding situations 
where theres a suspicion the problems arisen from an excluded condition. So I dont 
consider Red Sands acted fairly by declining the claim in this instance.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about what needs to happen here to put things right. Mr W thinks the 
claim should be paid. Ive considered that. But I think Red Sands should be able to 
reconsider the claim in light of the other policy terms first. So I agree with the investigator 
that the right thing to do is to decide that Red Sands should reconsider Mr Ws claim, in light 
of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited and Im directing them to reconsider the claim submitted to them 
on 30 July 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman