DRN-3875137
The complaint
Mr A complains that BW SIPP LLP (BW) failed to undertake proper checks in relation to the 
investment he made. He also thinks BW failed to let him know about issues with the 
investment before it was valued at £0.
What happened
Mr A transferred his existing pension arrangement to a SIPP and subsequently invested in a 
carbon credits investment. Mr A has told us that he was introduced to the investment by 
someone representing Carbon Advice Group. 
Mr As SIPP application form listed the intended investment as Store First. 
On 21 August 2011, Mr A signed a declaration stating: 
I would like to proceed with the Barnett Waddingham SIPP (BWSIPP) on an 
execution-only basis. I confirmed I have neither requested nor received any advice 
from Barnett Waddingham Investments LLP or any other financial adviser concerning 
the suitability of the BWSIPP. I also understand that Barnett Waddingham will 
assume that all further instructions concerning my SIPP are on an execution only 
basis unless I inform them otherwise.
On the same date Mr A signed the transfer out paperwork from his existing SIPP with his 
ceding scheme. 
On 1 November 2011, Mr As ceding scheme confirmed the transfer of his pension monies to 
BW. The funds were received by BW on the same date. 
BW refused to permit investment in Store First after undertaking due diligence in respect of 
the investment. Despite this, Mr A confirmed he still wished to go ahead with the SIPP. BW 
has told us that: 
We were made aware of Carbon Advice Group by [Mr As name] directly when he 
requested his SIPP invest in carbon credits via the Carbon Advice Group. He is the 
only SIPP client we have who ever invested carbon credits.
On 31 January 2012, BW wrote to Mr A in relation to the carbon credits investment, it said: 
I am writing regarding the proposed investment through Carbon Advice Group which 
we have referred to our external SIPP investment consultant. I am sure you are 
aware that trading carbon credits is a new market and you will be relying on the 
broker that you have selected. We have not been able to undertake due diligence on 
the broker and therefore you will need to satisfy yourself that you wish to proceed.
Our external consultant, however, has suggested that we highlight the following point 
in the literature:
"When an investment is made, funds are paid directly to Carbon Advice Group. It 
does not appear that any form of client or escrow account is being used. The carbon 
credits are not issued for 30 days after funds are received. Therefore, in the event of 
an administrator or liquidator being appointed during that 30 day period, your clients' 
funds would be at risk and not ring-fenced in any way."
Carbon schemes have also recently appeared on the Financial Services Authority 
website, and I suggest that you read the information at the following link (print-out 
attached for convenience):
www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/consumerinformation/scamsandswindles/investment 
scams/carbon credit/index.shtml
If you wish to proceed with the investment having conducted your own research, we 
will require you to sign and return the attached Member Investment Declaration. I will 
then draw up the necessary documentation.
I look forward to hearing from you.
Mr A signed the Member Investment Declaration document on 2 February 2012:
Carbon Credit Investment
Background:
Following your instruction to us to purchase verified voluntary emission reduction 
carbon credits (VERs) the purpose of this document is to highlight some of the SIPP 
related risks involved in order that you are fully aware of these prior to purchase.
Whilst carbon credits generally have been around for some time, the market for 
trading VERs is still immature - this means there may not be a ready buyer of the 
VERs held within your SIPP and no guarantee that the VER could be sold at a profit 
were a buyer found.
Expert commentators suggest that the market in trading VERs may take some time 
to develop (assuming it does develop) - typically three to five years is mentioned 
although again these cannot be guaranteed. Consequently it should be appreciated 
by you as the scheme member instructing us to purchase VERs within your SIPP that 
this investment is potentially high risk, long term in nature and illiquid. Therefore we 
ask you to acknowledge the following:
Your acknowledgement as scheme member to us as the SIPP operator:
I confirm that I have considered carefully the information provided by the product 
provider and I have a good understanding of carbon credits and VERs; furthermore I 
wish to instruct you as the SIPP operator to make an investment in VERs on my 
behalf. I am fully aware that this is investment is High Risk and/or Speculative, may 
be illiquid and/or difficult to value or sell and confirm that I wish to proceed.
I acknowledge that I have been recommended to seek professional advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser however have chosen not to seek advice for 
this transaction.) I am fully aware that you are acting on my instructions on an 
Execution Only Basis as directed by me as scheme member and that you have not 
provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this investment or the SIPP.Should any aspect of this investment be subject to a tax charge within the pension 
scheme any such charges will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member 
of the Scheme.
I agree to provide you with any further information and/or documentation they may 
require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I also understand and agree that, in the event of my death, if you are unable to sell 
the asset within HMRC timescales that it will be transferred to my beneficiaries 
through my estate (where possible) and accordingly may be subject to any 
Inheritance Tax.
I indemnify you against any and all liability arising from this investment.
Sadly, Mr As investment subsequently failed. Mr A later raised a complaint about BW. 
Background to the complaint
BW issued its final response letter on 4 June 2020, it didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Briefly it 
said: 
It revalued the investment down to nil based on information received from Beaufort 
Securities (custodian of the asset). This was reflected in the October 2017 annual 
statement. 
Earlier that year Mr A had exchanged emails with BW having received an email from 
Beaufort Securities stating that there was no secondary market for carbon credits and 
that it was valuing them at nil. 
It did explain that it was reducing the value of his investment. 
BWs investment committee considered Mr As request to invest in carbon credits. 
At the time of investment BW:
oDisclosed to Mr A that it had been unable to undertake due diligence in relation to 
Carbon Advice Group PLC. 
oRecommended Mr A seek financial advice. 
oHighlighted to Mr A the key risks of investing in Carbon Credits. 
oSignposted Mr A to information about carbon credits on the regulators website. 
In turn Mr A: 
oConfirmed he had a good understanding of Carbon Credits. 
oConfirmed he wanted his instruction to be accepted on an execution-only basis.
oIndemnified BW against any and all liability arising from this investment. 
It made Mr A fully aware of the basis on which BWs investment committee allowed his 
investment in carbon credits to proceed. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
During our investigation, BW provided us with the following timeline of events: 05/10/2011  the SIPP was established on an execution-only basis.
01/11/2011  £129,649.77 (£83,692.94 non protected rights and £45,956.83 protected 
rights) was received from Mr As previous pension. As it was a SIPP to SIPP transfer, 
BW says it wasnt required to investigate the funding of the ceding scheme.
31/01/2012  BW wrote to Mr A regarding his proposed investment in Carbon Credits 
traded via Carbon Advice Group, with warnings that it was unable to carry out due 
diligence and enclosing a Member Investment Declaration to be signed in order to 
proceed, along with the FSA (Financial Services Authority) warning on investment scams 
dated at 1 August 2011.
10/02/2012  £99,999.87 was invested in MW Wind Electricity Generation Farm at 
Radhapuram with £26,844.18 remaining in cash in the SIPP.
31/03/2017  Carbon Advice Group was dissolved, Beaufort Securities became 
custodian of the asset.
12/06/2017  Beaufort Securities confirmed there was no market for the asset and 
valued it at nil. 
23/02/2018  Beaufort Securities confirmed that an agreement with the FCA (Financial 
Conduct Authority) prevented it from opening any new accounts in order to transfer the 
asset to Mr A personally, removing it from the SIPP.
April 2020  Complaint raised by Mr A and responded to by BW.
July 2020  Mr A elected to take his remaining cash holdings, paid from the SIPP on 20 
July 2021.
BW has told us that the SIPP currently remains dormant, pending resolution of the asset 
holding with no administration fees due.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
BW disagreed. Briefly, it said: 
It wasnt the case that it didnt undertake any due diligence, it employed an 
independent third party to undertake due diligence, which represented good practice. 
The compensation set out by the investigator was based on the pension monies 
transferred into the SIPP coming from defined benefit occupational pension scheme, 
which was not the case. The funds were in fact transferred from another SIPP.
Following on from the information provided by the business, the investigator revised the 
recommended redress in accordance with the fact that the ceding scheme was a defined 
contribution personal pension plan. 
During the course of our investigation, Mr A has detailed his circumstances and the impact 
this situation had on him, amongst other things, hes told us that: 
He is in financial difficulty, is unable to work for medical reasons and has had no 
income since 2020.
Not being able to access his pension has made things more difficult financially and 
has had a negative impact on his mental health. 
His partner and daughter also have ongoing medical issues. Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was escalated to me for review. I issued 
my provisional decision explaining why I thought Mr As complaint should be upheld and told 
both parties I would consider anything further they wanted to add. Mr A accepted my 
decision and made no further comments. BW also accepted my decision although it did 
disagree with my findings. My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision; Ive 
reiterated these below. Ive amended the redress methodology slightly as the section 
contained a minor error in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view.
Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878). I am therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint. The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive described 
above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr As case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. However, I think it is important 
to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take 
into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of 
difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a 
legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that BW was under any obligation to advise 
Mr A on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application or 
not permitting an investment isnt the same thing as advising Mr A on the merits of investing 
in Carbon Credits and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations, and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr As SIPP 
application, BW complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act 
with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the rules 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what BW could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view that in order for BW to meet 
its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular 
applications for investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind.
I also want to reemphasise here that I do not say that BW was under any obligation to advise 
Mr A on the SIPP and/or the underlying investment in Carbon Credits. Refusing to accept an 
application or permit an investment is not the same thing as advising Mr A on the merits of 
investing and/or switching to the SIPP. 
The due diligence carried out by BW on the Carbon Credits investment  and what it 
should have done
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it should  as a minimum  have:
Identified the Carbon Credits investment as a high-risk, speculative and non-
standard investment, so it shouldve carried out thorough due diligence on it.
Examined where Mr As money would be invested  in other words, what type of 
Carbon Credit he was investing in.
Considered whether the investment was suitable for a personal pension scheme.
Made sure the investment was genuine  in other words, not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity.
Made sure the investment worked as claimed.
Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at the point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensured Mr As SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment.
The FSA (the then regulator) had identified that trading on these markets requires skill and 
experience. These investments were unlikely to be suitable for the majority of retail 
investors. And they were only generally likely to be suitable for a small element of the 
investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor.
There is no price transparency  there is no independent source regarding the price being 
set, and nothing to confirm at what price the credits were acquired. So, there was no way to establish how the price was being arrived at. So, there couldve been a very significant 
difference between the price the units were acquired at and the price these were sold to 
Mr A at. This is something BW could have and should have investigated.
Assuming that Mr A would hold valid units or credits, there doesnt appear to be any 
measure of the quality of the credits in question. In other words, were the units or credits 
being generated valid? I havent seen any independent verification that the units met the 
Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) standard. So, at the time, there was a risk this validation 
wouldnt be achieved. I havent seen evidence of a registration of the project with the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the time Mr A 
invested. The lack of that registration could suggest that the relevant standard hadnt been 
met.
I havent seen that it was demonstrated that there was any ready market for Mr As units. It 
wasnt demonstrated how Mr A would find businesses to buy his small allocation of Carbon 
Credit units.
At the time there was little confirmation that Mr As SIPP was acquiring anything of any 
realisable value, whether the units existed or, if they did, whether they were being sold at 
inflated prices.
BW may consider that carrying out the kind of assessment that would be required to 
establish and interrogate such factors as Ive discussed and carry out appropriate due 
diligence, imposes on it requirements over and above its responsibilities as a SIPP provider. 
But Im satisfied these are the kind of things BW needed to do when accepting Mr As 
proposed investment to meet its regulatory obligations and good practice. And, I dont think 
that this amounts to a conclusion that BW shouldve assessed the suitability of the Carbon 
Credits investment for Mr As individual circumstances.
BW does appear to have understood the importance of due diligence, it refused to permit 
Mr As initial application to invest in Store First because of due diligence concerns. And, I 
accept BW did do some due diligence in relation to Carbon Credits, this doesnt seem to 
have extended beyond looking at marketing brochures (I also note some material provided 
didnt relate to the project Mr As Carbon Credits supposedly related to) and a report 
prepared for BW by a third party, albeit it has only provided us with excerpts from that report. 
The due diligence therefore didnt cover all  or even a significant number of  the points Ive 
set out above. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that BW didnt carry out 
due diligence at the time to satisfy its reasonable responsibilities as a SIPP provider.
If BW had completed sufficient due diligence on Mr As Carbon Credits investment, 
what should it reasonably have concluded?
It could be that the investment was/is legitimate. I also accept that technically there was a 
market for Carbon Credits. But its now been highlighted that it often wasnt possible to sell 
them even though there was a market for them. And in particular, there are reports that 
voluntary Carbon Credits arent actively traded and that buyers dont buy from private 
individuals. So, although they technically worked as claimed, the reality was very different.
The FSA warning was published before Mr As SIPP was set up  indeed this appears to 
have been highlighted in the third-party report commissioned by BW and included in the 
declarations Mr A was asked to sign  and this made it clear that there may be issues with 
selling Carbon Credits. Im satisfied this is something BW shouldve not only identified as 
part of its due diligence but considered a significant factor in deciding whether to permit the 
investment. Also, the fact Mr A might then have struggled to realise the investment shouldve 
caused it significant concern  especially considering that the vast majority of the money transferred (about £130,000) to the SIPP by Mr A was invested in Carbon Credits. It isnt 
clear how Mr A would be able to take benefits from his pension if the investment was difficult 
to value or realise.
It could be argued that not being able to independently value an investment wouldnt be 
indicative of its performance or legitimacy. But the investment was predicated on the Carbon 
Credits being sold for more than what was paid for them. And so, I think there shouldve 
been concerns if it wasnt possible to independently value them. And if an independent 
valuation had been possible, its now been highlighted that voluntary Carbon Credits were 
sold at significantly inflated prices so it seems likely this would then have been identified. 
Which would effectively render the investment fundamentally unviable.
BW should also have been aware that Mr A was unlikely to benefit, in terms of the 
investment itself, from any regulatory protections (the investment being unregulated) such as 
access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme or this service.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied there were a number of concerns BW shouldve identified. 
It shouldve known there was a significant risk of consumer detriment, and it shouldnt have 
added the Carbon Credits to the list of permitted investments for Mr As SIPP (as I 
understand it Mr A is the only consumer who invested in Carbon Credits via a BW SIPP and 
was the first to do so, its specifically in connection with Mr As request to invest in Carbon 
Credits that BW looked into the investment). When doing so, I think it didnt act with due skill, 
care and diligence or treat Mr A fairly.
I note that BW highlighted to Mr A that it had been unable to undertake due diligence in 
respect of Carbon Advice Group. I think that BW should have recognised that this 
significantly increased the risk in allowing this investment and that in simply putting Mr A on 
notice of the fact that it hadnt been able to undertake due diligence BW wasnt doing 
enough. Especially considering that one of the risks flagged was: 
When an investment is made, funds are paid directly to Carbon Advice Group. It 
does not appear that any form of client or escrow account is being used. The carbon 
credits are not issued for 30 days after funds are received. Therefore, in the event of 
an administrator or liquidator being appointed during that 30 day period, your clients 
funds would be at risk and not ring-fenced in any way.
Having concluded that BW shouldnt have allowed the Carbon Credits investment in any 
event, Ive not gone on to consider what BW couldve discovered about Carbon Advice 
Group or what conclusions it shouldve drawn from this. 
To be clear, I reiterate, Im not making a finding that BW shouldve assessed the suitability of 
the Carbon Credits investment for Mr A. I accept BW had no obligation to give advice to 
Mr A, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for him.
At the point Mr As investment was arranged BW wouldve been aware that he was investing 
the vast majority of his pension fund in an unregulated, esoteric and high-risk investment 
which might be difficult to sell. I acknowledge that BW wouldnt be aware whether that was 
the entirety of his pension savings because he may have had other benefits elsewhere. But 
it was an indicator of the kind of risk to which Mr A was being exposed. These were red 
flags, so to speak, which shouldve caused BW significant concern as to whether or not to 
allow Mr A to hold that investment in his SIPP.
Im satisfied BW couldve identified the concerns Ive mentioned, and ought to have drawn 
the conclusions Ive set out, based on what was known at the time. I think it did identify some 
of these as BW set them out in the declaration it asked Mr A to sign. BW ought to have identified significant concerns in relation to the investment, and it ought to 
have led it to conclude it shouldnt accept the Carbon Credit investment. It ought to have 
realised there was a high risk of detriment to Mr A.
In conclusion
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that BW 
acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mr A fairly by accepting the investment in 
Carbon Credits or accepting the application for the SIPP. BW didnt meet its regulatory 
obligations or the standards of good practice at the time, and it allowed Mr As pension fund 
to be put at significant risk as a result.
Did BW act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr As instructions?
 
In my view, for the reasons given, BW shouldve refused to allow Mr As investment in 
Carbon Credits. So, things shouldnt have progressed beyond that. Had BW acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in my 
view to conclude that it shouldnt have permitted the investment.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mr A to 
sign risk or indemnity declarations wasnt an effective way for BW to meet its regulatory 
obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns BW ought to have had about the 
investment.
Having identified a risk, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to 
refuse to accept the investment in Carbon Credits  not put in place a process asking Mr A 
to sign declarations in an attempt to absolve itself of responsibility. I dont think the 
declarations Mr A signed meant that BW could ignore its duty to treat him fairly.
I think BW refusing to accept this business wouldve likely meant that Mr A wouldve acted 
very differently. This refusal wouldve tended to highlight the concerns  albeit not 
necessarily the details of those concerns  with making such an investment.
In any event, I dont believe it would be reasonable to assume that another SIPP operator 
wouldve allowed the investment, had BW not permitted it. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that BW shouldnt compensate Mr A for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found BW 
did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider wouldve complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have allowed the 
investment.
Its possible that it could be argued that other parties have contributed to Mr As losses and 
so its not fair to hold BW fully responsible. However, Ive concluded Mr A wouldnt have 
invested but for BWs failure to carry out sufficient due diligence. So, in these circumstances, 
Im satisfied its fair to hold it responsible for the whole of the loss suffered. Im not asking it 
to account for losses that go beyond the consequences of its failings.
As set out above, Im satisfied that BW shouldve put a stop to the transaction and that the 
investment wouldnt have gone ahead if it had treated Mr A fairly and reasonably. Ive 
carefully considered causation, contributory negligence, apportionment of damages and 
DISP 3.6.4. But in the circumstances here, Im still satisfied its fair for BW to compensate 
Mr A for his full loss. In addition to the financial losses Mr A has suffered I think the loss of 
his pension, which had been of a significant value, will have caused him a lot of worry and distress and I think that BW should compensate him for this as well. In accordance with his 
submissions, Mr A has suffered financial and medical difficulties over the last few years and 
his not being able to access his pension has made an already difficult situation much harder. 
Putting things right
I consider that BW failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to 
the transactions that are the subject of this complaint. My aim in awarding fair compensation 
is to put Mr A back into the position he would likely have been in had it not been for BWs 
failings. Had BW acted appropriately, I think its most likely that Mr A wouldnt have invested 
in Carbon Credits.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr As circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must BW do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, BW must:
Compare the performance of Mr As investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
BW should add interest as set out below.
BW should pay into Mr As pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If BW is unable to pay the total amount into Mr As pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr As actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr A £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of the 
majority of this pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BW deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. BW should give Mr A a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Carbon 
Credits Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. BW 
should establish an amount its willing to accept for the investment/s as a commercial value. 
It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the investment/s.
If BW is able to purchase the illiquid investment/s then the price paid to purchase the 
holding/s will be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid into 
the SIPP to secure the holding/s).
If BW is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. BW may require that Mr A provides an undertaking 
to pay BW any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. BW will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
BW totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP feesIf the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and because of this it cant be closed 
after compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr A to have to pay annual 
SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open albeit, as I understand it from BWs submissions, the SIPP 
is being treated as dormant and no fees are due. But, for the sake of completeness, if the 
SIPP needs to be kept open only because of the illiquid investment/s and is used only or 
substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be waived until the SIPP 
can be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
I cant say definitively into what holdings, and in what proportions, Mr As monies 
would have been invested had BW not permitted the Carbon Credits investment. 
However, overall, I consider the measure below is a fair and reasonable proxy for 
the return Mr As monies might have experienced over the period in question if 
theyd not been invested in the Carbon Credits holding.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.
Im satisfied that the mix and diversification provided by using a benchmark of the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index would be a fair measure for 
comparison for what Mr As monies might have been worth if they hadnt been 
invested in the Carbon Credits holding.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. BW SIPP LLP must pay Mr A 
compensation as set out above. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
BW SIPP LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that BW SIPP LLP should pay Mr A 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including distress 
or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that BW SIPP LLP pays Mr A the balance plus any 
interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind BW SIPP 
LLP. It is unlikely that Mr A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr A may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
If BW SIPP LLP does not pay the recommended amount, then any investments currently illiquid should be retained by Mr A. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from 
the investments together with the compensation paid by BW SIPP LLP (excluding any 
interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
BW SIPP LLP may request an undertaking from Mr A that either he repays to BW SIPP 
LLP any amount Mr A may receive from the investments thereafter or if possible, transfers 
the investments to BW SIPP LLP at that point.
Mr A should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman