DRN-3406531
The complaint
Mrs B has complained, via a representative, that the Cooperative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-
sold her fee-paying Privilege and Privilege Premier packaged bank accounts, that were sold 
to her in December 2001 and November 2005 respectively.
Mrs B has given a number of reasons why she says that the accounts were mis-sold. These 
include that she was led to believe the only way she could obtain an overdraft was by 
upgrading her account to the packaged accounts. Mrs B also says that she didnt need any 
of the benefits that were provided by the accounts, and says she only agreed to them 
because she thought she had no choice.
What happened
Mrs B has complained, via a representative, that the Cooperative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-
sold her fee-paying Privilege and Privilege Premier packaged bank accounts, that were sold 
to her in December 2001 and November 2005 respectively.
Mrs B has given a number of reasons why she says that the accounts were mis-sold. These 
include that she was led to believe the only way she could obtain an overdraft was by 
upgrading her account to the packaged accounts. Mrs B also says that she didnt need any 
of the benefits that were provided by the accounts, and says she only agreed to them 
because she thought she had no choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs B says that she agreed to both of the packaged accounts because she says she was led 
to believe she had to have them to obtain an overdraft. Having looked at Mrs Bs overdraft 
history, Im not persuaded that what she says is correct. 
The reason why I say this is because prior to agreeing to the Privilege account, Mrs B had a 
fee-free account that already included an arranged overdraft and had done so for many 
years prior to the upgrade. I can see that the overdraft limit (also known as an arranged 
overdraft) was £600 on 24 August 2000, this then dropped down to £280 on 16 August 2001 
and it remained at that level when Mrs B agreed to upgrade to the Privilege account. 
Therefore, Mrs B already had an overdraft limit and it didnt change or increase when she 
agreed to the Privilege account  on the contrary it later dropped down to £100 in the 
February of the following year. 
When Mrs B was sold the Privilege account, it cost £6 per month and one of the key features 
of the account was that it automatically (i.e. without needing credit checks) provided a £100 
interest free overdraft buffer. It also included a lower rate of interest on overdrawn balances 
above that amount  up to the agreed limit. And importantly, before changing to the Privilege 
account, Mrs B wouldve been charged £8 for every month that she entered her overdraft. 
So for anyone who was regularly entering their overdraft each month, the Privilege account 
wouldve been at least £2 cheaper per month (I say at least, because they wouldve also 
paid less interest on the overdrawn balance and not have to pay the yearly overdraft 
arrangement fee either), then if theyd continued with Co-ops standard current account.
Given that Mrs Bs recollection of the sale centre around the overdraft, I think this saving was 
most likely the reason why Mrs B agreed to the account. Therefore, whilst Mrs B may not 
have had a need for any of the insurance benefits that were also included with the account  
I think its likely that she agreed to the account solely for the banking benefits. And as the 
account was sold as a package, Mrs B was unable to pick and choose what it came with.
My understanding of Co-ops sales processes at the time, makes me think it is likely that this 
account was not recommended to Mrs B. But, even if Co-op had recommended the account 
to Mrs B, from what I have seen of Mrs Bs circumstances, it seems to have been a good 
way for her to reduce the cost of using her overdraft. And so I cant reasonably say it was 
mis-sold just because she didnt need the other benefits that were included in the package.
When the Privilege Premier account was sold in November 2005 it cost £12 per month. So 
this represented an increase of £4.50 per month extra, compared to what Mrs B was already 
paying for her existing Privilege account. Around the time the upgrade took place, Mrs Bs 
overdraft limit was increased to £700. However, given that Mrs B previously had an overdraft 
limit of varying amounts, both when her account was fee-free and during the time it was a 
Privilege account, Im not persuaded that Mrs B agreed to it because she thought it was her 
only way of obtaining this overdraft. On the contrary, I think its more likely Mrs B agreed to 
upgrade her account again, because of the banking benefits that the account offered.
I say this because when Mrs B agreed to upgrade her account again, the Privilege Premier 
account included a £260 interest free buffer on her overdraft, and a lower rate of interest 
(9.9%) on balances overdrawn above that amount  up to the agreed limit. The account also 
offered reduced interest rates on loans and included a high interest (4.25%) savings 
account. And from looking at Co-ops records, it appears that Mrs B took out a Privilege 
Premier savings account around the same time that her account was upgraded.
Therefore, once again I think the most likely scenario is that Mrs B agreed to the Privilege 
Premier account solely for the banking benefits that were included with the account. So I 
think that she agreed to the upgrade, in the knowledge that it included insurance benefits 
that she was unlikely to need and went ahead with the upgrade anyway.    
Once again because of Co-ops sales processes at the time, it believes this account was not 
recommended to Mrs B. But as with the previous account, even if I were to conclude that 
Co-op had recommended it to Mrs B, I cant say that it was unreasonable to do so given that 
she was able to make use and benefit from the banking benefits that it provided. And again, 
whilst it included insurance products that she may not have needed, she couldnt pick and 
choose what it came with.
Given the lack of evidence, I accept that during both sales Co-op might not have given Mrs B 
all of the important information about the account and the associated benefits that it 
shouldve done. But, given that I think she agreed to both accounts largely for the banking 
benefits, I dont think its likely that Mrs B wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
accounts, had she been given even more information about the account benefits  which 
she herself has said she had no interest in.
Finally, I do appreciate that Mrs B has had the Privilege Premier account for a long time, and 
she may now feel that keeping the account for all those years has been poor value for 
money. However, that doesnt mean that Co-op was wrong to have sold the accounts when 
it did. And Co-op has provided evidence to suggest that it did occasionally write to Mrs B to 
remind her of the account features and benefits and invited her to check that they were still 
right for her. So, I cant reasonably hold Co-op responsible because Mrs B chose to continue 
with the account rather than enquire about changing to a cheaper or fee-free account. My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Privilege and Privilege Premier 
accounts were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman