DRN-3614077
The complaint
Miss Z feels that Nationwide Building Society didnt adequately compensate her for their not 
applying interest to her account in the correct manner. 
What happened
Miss Z contacted Nationwide in May 2020 to ask why annual interest hadnt been applied to 
her account in February 2020 as she felt it should have been. Nationwide explained that a 
recent change to the account meant that the interest payment date had now changed to 
January, and that full corrective interest would be paid to the account in January 2021.
In February 2021, Miss Z contacted Nationwide again and pointed out that the last two dates 
that annual interest had been paid were February 2019 and January 2021, and expressed 
her concern that the change of the interest payment date may have led to her missing out on 
approximately eleven months of account interest.
Nationwide looked at Miss Zs concerns and confirmed that her suspicion was correct. 
Nationwide calculated the interest that Miss Zs account hadnt rightfully received as being 
£34.97 and credited that amount to Miss Zs account. Miss Z wasnt happy at what had 
happened and felt that she should be compensated for the trouble and upset shed incurred. 
So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Miss Zs complaint. They apologised to Miss Z for what had happened 
and made a payment of £30 to her as compensation for any distress or inconvenience she 
might have experienced. Miss Z wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred 
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Nationwide had already issued to Miss Zs complaint, including the interest reimbursement 
and £30 compensation payment, already represented a fair and reasonable response to 
what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss Z remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business such as Nationwide has made an error that has caused a financial loss to 
a customer, it would be expected that the business would take the corrective action required 
to ensure that the affected customer is put back into the financial position they would have 
been in, had the error not occurred.
Im satisfied that Nationwide have done that here, and I say this because they calculated the 
interest that Miss Z had missed out on because of their error and reimbursed that amount to 
Miss Zs account. 
It would also be expected in circumstances such as this that Nationwide would make a fair 
and reasonable payment of compensation to Miss Z to account for any trouble or distress 
the matter may have caused  if such a compensation payment were warranted.
In this instance, Nationwide have made such a compensation payment to Miss Z, to the 
amount of £30. But Miss Z isnt happy with this compensation amount and doesnt feel that 
its fair or proportionate in relation to the time and effort that shes had to expend.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the £30 
that Nationwide have already paid to Miss Z here does feel fair to me, given the full 
circumstances of this complaint, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would 
have instructed Nationwide to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position Ive considered that Miss Z did contact Nationwide initially in May 
2020, and then had to contact them a second time in February 2021. Miss Z has explained 
that she had to monitor the account continuously during that period to check whether the 
interest was being paid, and had to make interest calculations during that period to 
determine whether her account had missed out on what it should have received. But it must 
be noted that as an account holder, Miss Z has a responsibility to monitor her account on an 
ongoing basis, and given that interest is only paid to the account on an annual basis Im 
uncertain what ongoing calculations Miss Z felt compelled to undertake.
Miss Z has also explained that she had to hire a tutor to understand the interest on her 
account, at significant cost to herself. But I wouldnt consider instructing Nationwide to 
reimburse Miss Z for the cost of this tutor as she would like. This is because Miss Z will 
continue to benefit from the learnings she gained from this tutor, and because the balance 
and interest rate of the account meant that unpaid interest amount was always likely to be 
relatively moderate, such that the hiring of a tutor at significant cost to determine that amount 
seems disproportionate to me.
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that the £30 that Nationwide have already 
paid Miss Z does represent a fair, reasonable, and proportionate payment of compensation 
in consideration of what happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss Z was wanting, but I trust shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman