DRN-2349856
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the repairs carried out by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) following an escape of water at her home.
What happened
Ms C had home insurance with Lloyds covering her buildings and contents. After installing a 
new dishwasher, an escape of water damaged various parts of her kitchen. She made a 
claim under her policy which Lloyds accepted.
The water damaged two cabinets, but Lloyds couldnt replace them with matching doors 
because they were no longer available to buy. It fitted two new units, but Ms C was unhappy 
that the colour didnt match. Lloyds sent a French Polisher, who said the colour of the 
cabinet doors was within tolerance. Ms C remained unhappy, so Lloyds made a further visit 
to her home to assess the kitchen cabinet doors. While Lloyds agreed that the doors werent 
an exact match, they were a reasonable match. Therefore, it felt that the work was 
completed in line with the policy.
Ms C complained to Lloyds that shed been mistreated, and she felt no one cared about her 
concerns. It responded to her complaint but maintained that it had covered her claim in line 
with the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. She didnt find any evidence 
that Lloyds had treated Ms C unfairly, and she thought it had provided a reasonable match 
for the cabinet doors.
Ms C didnt agree and remained unhappy that her kitchen cabinets didnt match.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Ms Cs situation, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The main issue of complaint is that Ms C doesnt think the cabinet doors match the existing 
doors. 
Ive looked at the policy to see what Lloyds shouldve done. It states:
If you have made a successful buildings claim for an item which forms part of a matching 
set or suite, we will pay for the cost of replacing or changing any associated undamaged 
item from the matching set or suite when a replacement of, or reasonable match for, the lost 
or damaged item cannot be obtained. 
By reasonable match we mean this may be similar but not an exact match.
Ms C supplied photos of the cabinets and I can see that the doors arent an exact match. Its 
a Shaker style door and while the wood on the inside of the frame is a good match, the 
border hasnt blended in as well, possibly because theres no natural wood grain visible. 
Overall, the doors are of a similar appearance but it is possible to tell which are the 
replacement doors. However, the photos show the replacement doors without handles which 
is likely emphasising any difference. Once the handles are fitted the overall look may 
improve but, that said, Im satisfied that Lloyds assessment of the match as being a 
reasonable one is fair. 
Ive considered the call recording of Lloyds visit to Ms Cs home, in which it explains that the 
policy doesnt require the replacement doors to be an exact match, providing theyre similar. 
I appreciate its a subjective view, but I think Lloyds has provided a reasonable match and, 
for that reason, I think it has handled the repair in line with the policy.
Ms C felt that Lloyds didnt treat her fairly. In particular, she mentioned the cabinet door 
handles were missing and Lloyds representatives were dismissive of her complaint and 
pressured her into accepting the repair. 
As Ive said, I listened to the call recording of Lloyds visit to Ms Cs home. The 
representative agrees with Ms C that the cabinet doors arent an exact match and he 
sympathises with her position. He also offered, twice, to arrange to have the handles fitted, 
which Ms C declined. However, the representative did explain that while the doors werent 
an exact match, they were similar, which is what the policy covers. 
Several times during the visit, Ms C asked why she should accept Lloyds decision. The 
representative repeatedly said she didnt have to accept the repair and could escalate her 
complaint. So, I cant see that Lloyds pressured her into accepting anything.
Overall, I havent seen anything which suggests Lloyds treated Ms C unfairly or that it failed 
to provide the level of repair covered under her policy. Shes unhappy that it has provided a 
repair which isnt to the standard shed like, but as its in line with the policy terms, I dont 
agree that its unfair.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman