DRN-3597660
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) havent settled his 
claim fairly under his buildings and contents policy. He wants the claim settled and 
compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K noticed a leak from his en-suite shower in July 2020. Due to Covid Mr K says he 
couldnt get a plumber to check the issue until October 2020, so he stopped using the 
shower. The plumber identified leaking pipes in the wall. Damage had been caused to 
the en-suite, bathroom, bedroom wardrobe and kitchen ceiling. Mr K contacted Lloyds 
on 26 October 2020. Lloyds appointed an agent (Ill call D) to handle the claim. D sent a 
loss adjuster to assess the claim in November 2020.
Mr K wanted to use his own contractor and sent D an estimate. D suggested additional 
works recommended by the loss adjuster and asked for a revised estimate. Mr K provided 
this, which D approved. Mr K says his contractors began strip out works in the bathrooms 
around 7 December 2020. As this would mean Mr Ks home would be without bathrooms, 
he says D discussed the following options with him:
arrange alternative accommodation (AA) in either a hotel or a rented 
property. Or,
remain at home with a mobile bathroom unit (a POD) set up in his garden, with 
the payment of a disturbance allowance (DA) of £10 per person per day - £50 
per day for Mr Ks family.
D sent an email confirming that DA would be paid from the date the bathroom was stripped 
out until it was re-instated. Mr K decided on the POD. But there was a delay in obtaining it 
so AA was provided from 21 December 2020 to 6 January 2021.
Once the POD was in place, Mr K says he chased D over both the DA and the settlement 
of his claim, as he couldnt continue repairs without payment. He says his energy bills 
increased substantially to power the POD and in heating his home as windows had to be 
left open to run cables to it. He says there was an offensive smell from the drains for many 
months whilst he chased D for updates. With no progress Mr K says he appointed a loss 
assessor to act for him in February 2021. This incurred fees of £1,300, but he says little 
progress was made.
Mr K says he decided to remain at home because of the offer of DA. Without it hed have 
opted for AA. He complained to Lloyds in May 2021 about the failure to pay the DA and 
delays in progressing the claim. Mr K said this prompted Lloyds to send its own contractor 
to prepare an estimate. After this a settlement figure for the repairs was agreed with the 
loss adjuster in May 2021. Lloyds then issued a final response in June 2021.
Lloyds said it was upholding the complaint. It agreed that D had told Mr K that DA would 
be paid if he opted for the POD. It said that this had been referred to the underwriters in 
January 2021. However due to delays the underwriters only confirmed that DA wasnt 
claimable on 17 April 2021. It said further information had been requested from the loss 
adjuster. Lloyds apologised, saying:
it had identified service failings in that you were misadvised  and I can 
fully appreciate how frustrating this must have been.
In respect of the claim it said it had escalated matters to our LA to ask that they contact 
your underwriters with the further information requested at the earliest opportunity
With no update Mrs K called Lloyds on 14 June 2021. She said the POD was eating 
electricity and they had been promised DA would be paid. The call handler agreed that 
DA should be paid because the family was living in a building site. And that they would 
check the DA details and chase the loss adjuster for an update on the payment of the 
claim.
Mrs K called Lloyds on 28 June, 7 and 12 July 2021, chasing payment of the claim and for 
updates on the DA. She stressed they were in danger of losing their builders due to the 
delays. She called again on 19 July 2021 and said they had now lost another builder. 
Lloyds made the settlement on 26 July 2021 (although the claim wasnt fully settled until 
later).
By then Mr K had referred his complaint to our service. He said he accepted there was 
going to be disruption due to the claim which is what the disturbance allowance was to 
compensate for. Mr K also complained about the electricity costs incurred by the POD. Our 
investigator asked Lloyds to look into this additional point before he considered the 
complaint.
Lloyds issued a final response in January 2022. It said DA wasnt payable and Mr K had 
been misinformed. It agreed to consider his energy costs and travelling expenses in taking 
the children to their grandparents to shower. It agreed there had been a significant delay 
in processing the claim. Lloyds apologised and offered £800 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr K wasnt happy and asked our investigator to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint.
He said Lloyds agreement to consider Mr Ks energy and travel costs was fair. He agreed 
that the offer of DA had influenced Mr Ks decision about the POD. But whilst Lloyds had 
made an error in offering DA, it didnt follow that Lloyds should be held to the error. He 
said that a large insurance claim would always be stressful and cause inconvenience, but 
the £800 compensation offered fairly reflected the additional upset caused by Lloyds 
failings.
Mr K disagreed. He said Lloyds only said DA wouldnt be paid after it had finally settled his 
claim in August 2021 after months of delay. He said his family had been living in a 
freezing building site and going outside to use a shower and a toilet for over a year. He 
said his kitchen had also been out of use for a period and DA should be paid for this.
He said our investigators conclusion would allow others to be:
stitched up in the same way. Please take a Portaloo and we will give you £1500 
a month except when the process comes to an end it will be Oh sorry,  That 
was a mistake. Never mind. 
As Mr K doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 17 May 2022. I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint in part. I said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im planning to uphold the complaint in part. But to be clear to Mr K Im 
not considering telling Lloyds to pay DA for the whole period.
All insurance claims are going to be inconvenient, particularly if significant repairs are 
required. But I think this claim was poorly handled with excessive delays and confusion 
over many months with it taking more than a year for repairs to be completed. These 
delays continued after Lloyds first final response to Mr Ks complaint, where it promised to 
escalate matters.
Unfortunately, because of what DA actually is, rather than what D told Mr K it was, it isnt 
reasonable for me to tell Lloyds to pay it now. I know this will greatly disappoint Mr K and 
Ill explain why I think this below.
But I think Mr K and his family have suffered more inconvenience than they should have 
and incurred unnecessary expenses which dont appear to have been re-imbursed. Ive 
also considered whether the provision of the POD was a reasonable solution for Mr Ks 
family during this much delayed claim. At this stage I dont think it was.
Theres no dispute that DA was offered and accepted, so I wont set out the chain of 
conversations and correspondence over this. Mr K says Lloyds didnt confirm DA wouldnt 
be paid until after the rest of the claim was paid. I think Lloyds communication was poor. Its 
final response does say, in a roundabout fashion, that DA wasnt claimable. But then 
suggests it will be reviewed. That was in June 2021 and I think this issue should have been 
resolved in January 2021 at the latest.
Mr K has asked why is it that the underwriter gets to make the decisions on what gets paid 
on the claim? The underwriter provides the insurance, so it receives the premium and pays 
any claims. It may appoint agents to sell the policy or handle claims like it appointed D 
here. However, our service thinks its fair that the underwriter is also responsible for the 
actions of its agents. In this complaint its clear that D didnt understand Lloyds approach to 
DA.
What is DA
Mr K has requested a copy of Lloyds terms and conditions (T&Cs) relating to DA. 
However, the policy T&Cs dont refer to DA and this isnt uncommon in the industry.
The payment of DA is a practice often used by insurers, at their discretion, rather than a 
specific policy benefit set out in the T&Cs. DA can be paid during a claim when 
someones home lacks facilities, where they would be eligible for alternative 
accommodation (AA), but choose to remain at home instead.
However, DA it isnt a compensation payment for any inconvenience, or as Mr K put it 
disruption caused by remaining in the home. Instead it is to cover extra expenses 
they might incur as a consequence of the loss of facilities, like not being able to cook 
or do laundry.
The purpose of Mr Ks policy is to put him in the position he was in before the incident 
claimed for occurred. This means its fair that any extra expenses incurred because of 
the claim are re-imbursed. DA is a way of doing this without the need for either the 
insured or the insurer to obtain and check receipts and so on for these additional 
expenses.
And, much as I understand and sympathise with Mr Ks comments about the difficulties of 
living in a building site, DA isnt compensation for this. Although I agree that D kept 
telling him that it was.
Should DA be paid for the whole periodLloyds says there was no loss of facilities not covered by AA once the POD was in place 
and Mr K was misadvised that DA would be paid. Unfortunately, it continued to state this 
after the final response which said his comments had been taken onboard and fed back to 
the relevant Management.
Mr K says if hed opted for AA this would have been much more expensive, prompting 
Lloyds to progress the claim more efficiently. Lloyds says the POD cost more than 
providing AA in rented accommodation, so the relative cost of the options wasnt a factor.
Lloyds has now agreed to consider Mr Ks additional energy costs and other expenses. So, 
it is, belatedly, seeking to put him back in the position he was in before the incident 
occurred, as the policy should. This is a reasonable alternative to what the payment of DA 
is meant to provide for, although I appreciate it wont feel like that to Mr K and his family. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Lloyds to pay DA for the whole period as he is now 
being put back into the position he was in before the incident.
Was the POD a reasonable solution
I agree that Mr Ks decision to opt for the POD rather than AA was influenced by the offer 
of DA payment. Doubtless, in the reasonable expectation that the claim would be promptly 
settled, repairs completed and any inconvenience due to the POD suffered for a few 
weeks rather than many months.
So, Ive thought about whether the POD was a reasonable solution for the lack of a usable 
bathroom. Had Mr K needed to remain at home, perhaps to care for pets, it might have 
been an acceptable alternative to AA, but that wasnt the case here.
For a family of five I dont think only having a mobile bathroom outside the house can be 
regarded as anything other than a short-term solution. Particularly in winter if windows 
have to be left open to supply it. So, I dont think the POD suited Mr Ks family life. He 
complained about problems with the POD at an early stage, when the loss adjuster 
advised the DA decision needed to be referred to the underwriters in January 2021:
In simple terms the hotel option would have been better for my family even 
though the POD option appeared the cheaper and quicker method all round.
I think due to the unsuitability of the POD the inconvenience caused by the delays in 
settling the claim was greatly increased. Had the situation with DA been clarified sooner as 
it should have been, I think Mr K might have insisted on a more suitable solution for his 
family than continuing with the POD as the claim dragged on.
Period before AA was provided
Mr K says he was without bathroom facilities from around 7 December 2020, when strip 
out works began. The delay in installing the POD resulted in AA in a hotel being provided 
from 21 December 2020. I think its likely that Mr K incurred expenses before this. I 
wouldnt expect Mr K to have retained receipts for any additional expenses from then, as 
he wasnt asked to. So, I think its fair that DA should be paid between the 7-21 December 
2020 at the rate of £35 a day for the family.
Mr K says his kitchen was unusable from around 4 October to 20 December 2020, with 
work beginning with the removal of the lights. I asked Lloyds about this. It said the kitchen 
required relatively minor works, and there was no lack of facilities.
Mr K didnt contact Lloyds until 26 October 2020. The loss adjuster attended on 11 
November 2020, but its report doesnt mention whether the lights had been removed. It 
says the ceiling required plastering, painting, spotlights and drying, with a reserve of 
£4,000 for this work. That suggests fairly substantial repairs, so I think the kitchen would 
have been unusable for a period, particularly if it had no lighting.I dont think it is reasonable to expect DA to be paid for the period before Mr K claimed or 
before work was authorised by Lloyds agent. On that basis much of the period where the 
kitchen may have been out of use, overlaps that of the bathrooms. However, if Mr K has 
further evidence that his kitchen was out of use before then, perhaps that lighting had 
been removed by an electrician on safety grounds, Ill consider this point further.
The handling of the claim
I think this was a straightforward claim which should have been settled promptly. Had it, 
Mr K might have had full use of his home in early 2021. The work was expected to take 
around three months having begun in December 2020.
D initially seemed responsive. But once the POD was installed the claim doesnt appear to 
have been properly progressed for many months despite Mr K pushing for updates, 
retaining a loss assessor, and finally complaining. This seemed to result in queries about 
why the claim hadnt been brought before October 2020, if the damage was noted earlier. 
Despite this already having been comprehensively addressed in the loss adjusters report 
of 11 November 2020.
Despite being told their claim would be escalated in the final response, through June and 
July 2021 an increasingly upset Mrs K had to chase D for updates and for the settlement 
so repairs could be completed. She stressed that they were in danger of losing their 
builders (which happened twice) due to the delays.
But it wasnt until the end of July 2021 before Lloyds issued part of the settlement to 
enable the bathrooms to be reinstated, although this work wasnt completed until 
December 2021. And, it didnt agree to consider Mr Ks additional utility costs or offer 
compensation for the delays and upset caused until January 2022, after our service 
became involved.
Mr K retained a loss assessor to act for him in February 2021. I dont think it should 
have been necessary for him to do this and I think its fair that his expenses here should 
be re- imbursed if they havent been already. The T&Cs provide for the payment of 
various professional costs in connection with a claim.
Putting things right
At this stage I dont think Mr K has been treated fairly. There were unnecessary delays 
over many months. Lloyds says the £800 compensation offered reflects the 
inconvenience caused by the delays, poor communication and loss of expectation that the 
insured has experienced.
But I dont think it compensates for the trouble and upset caused by the inadequate POD 
arrangement. Inconvenient in itself, it resulted in a cold house particularly through the 
winter months. I think the misinformation about the DA caused further unnecessary trouble 
and upset over many months. I think the inconvenience suffered by a family of five here 
was significant. So, I think a further £500 should be paid in compensation to give £1,300 in 
total.
I think DA should be paid at the rate of £35 a day between 7-21 December 2020 when 
Mr Ks family were without bathroom facilities.
I dont think Mr K should have needed to appoint a loss assessor. So, I think its fair that 
his expenses for this be re-imbursed with interest at 8% per year simple from the date he 
paid them.
I asked Mr K and Lloyds to let me have any further evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider.
Response to provisional decisionMr K said he understood the DA rate should be £50 per day. He said that his kitchen had 
been unusable between 4 October  21 December 2021 rather than 2020, meaning it didnt 
overlap the provision of any AA and occurred after the claim had been notified to Lloyds. 
Lloyds said it agreed that a further £500 in compensation should be paid. It also agreed that 
DA should be paid between 7-21 December 2020. But it disagreed that it was fair that it 
should pay Mr Ks loss assessor fee. It said it was Mr Ks decision to use the loss assessor, 
who hadnt added any value to the claim and it wouldnt normally pay such fees. Lloyds 
queried the extent and duration of repairs in the kitchen and asked if this could be referred 
back to the claims team for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part.
I think this claim was handled poorly with avoidable delays and misinformation causing Mr K 
and his family more inconvenience than there should have been as a result of the problem 
with their en-suite. Lloyds has accepted and apologised for this, but I think it should pay 
additional compensation of £500 to give £1,300 in total for the trouble and upset caused.
I think Lloyds should pay DA between 7-21 December 2020, as it has now agreed. Mr K 
queried the daily rate of this having been told it was £50 a day. Unfortunately, thats 
incorrect, with the daily rate being £35 (£10 per adult and £5 per child), rather than £10 per 
person. Our service considers this to be a fair rate of DA and it is the rate weve seen Lloyds 
pay other policyholders, so I think thats reasonable.
In respect of the kitchen, Mr K says he was without facilities between 4 October and 21 
December 2021 and relied on takeaway meals. Lloyds said more work appeared to have 
been undertaken than necessary and that Mr K should have raised these issues with it at the 
time. 
Initially I thought it was fair that Lloyds be able to reconsider this aspect of the claim. But I 
said, given the significant inconvenience already suffered by Mr K, it should do this promptly 
and reasonably. I said I thought it should reflect the delays Mr K had suffered and the 
difficulties this may have created in him being able to complete the works. Unfortunately, 
Lloyds took several weeks to respond and only asked Mr K to evidence the works 
undertaken. I asked Mr K to provide further details, which he did and these were forwarded 
to Lloyds. 
Mr K included a document from D detailing the works required in the kitchen. This said the 
ceiling was to be fully removed, contrary to Lloyds earlier comments. So, I asked Lloyds to 
provide its scope of works and a breakdown of the settlement paid. This did provide for a full 
strip out of the kitchen ceiling and redecoration. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly settled 
this aspect of the claim in terms of the work required and that there was also clearly no need 
for Mr K to contact it further about it. 
Given the extent of the works required in the kitchen I think there was always going to be a 
loss of facilities and the payment of DA would be appropriate. That this wasnt followed up 
on by Lloyds is further evidence of its poor handling of the claim. And, despite being 
provided with additional information about the kitchen, Lloyds still hasnt responded further. Lloyds says the work on the kitchen took an excessive amount of time. Mr K explained there 
had been delays due to his builder and then family members contracting Covid in the period. 
Thats a reasonable explanation, as I dont think Mr K would have taken any longer than 
necessary to complete works, given hed been living in a building site for the best part of a 
year already and was anxious to complete repairs. 
So, I think DA should be paid and Im satisfied that any delays here were outside Mr Ks 
control. Lloyds doesnt appear to have been managing this claim in any meaningful way 
during this time. Consequently, I think its fair that it should pay the DA at the rate of £35 per 
day for the period the kitchen was out of use while repairs were completed.   
I accept that Lloyds T&Cs dont specifically refer to meeting loss assessors fees. But the 
T&Cs do say the policy will pay for any necessary expenses incurred. Given the 
circumstances here I think these expenses had become necessary from Mr Ks point of 
view. 
His claim had ground to a halt with his bathrooms stripped out, an unsatisfactory outside 
bathroom arrangement and the issue of the DA left unresolved with no or minimal 
communication from Lloyds. This wasnt Mr Ks fault and I think it was reasonable that he 
retained his own expert to attempt to get the claim moving. So, I think its fair that Lloyds do 
re-imburse Mr Ks loss assessor invoice and add 8% per year simple from the date Mr K 
paid this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr K a further £500 in compensation over the £800 already offered for the 
trouble and upset caused, 
pay DA at the rate of £35 per day for the period before AA was provided between 7-
21 December 2020,
pay DA at the rate of £35 per day for the period 4 October - 21 December 2021 whilst 
the kitchen was out of use, 
reimburse Mr Ks loss assessor invoice of £1,300 with interest at 8% a year simple 
from the date he paid this.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It 
should also give a certificate showing this if Mr K asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman