DRN-3542399
The complaint
Ms B complaints that Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited stopped offering accidental 
death cover. 
What happened
Ms B had held an accidental death plan with Cigna for many years  it renewed each year. 
In 2020 Cigna wrote to Ms B to say that they could no longer offer her the policy because the 
insurer was withdrawing from the market. 
Ms B complained to Cigna that this wasnt fair because she would have to take out a new 
policy which she thought would be difficult due to her age. In their final response letter Cigna 
explained that the insurer wasnt going to offer these policies anymore and said theyd given 
Ms B plenty of notice. Unhappy Ms B complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She explained 
Cigna was entitled to withdraw from the market and didnt think theyd treated Ms B unfairly. 
Ms B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said the policy 
was something she relied on for security and the insurance said it would cover her until she 
was 80. Ms B feels that Cigna is in breach of contract. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Cigna can withdraw from the market if it chooses to  thats a commercial decision 
Cigna is entitled to make. Its not offering any customers this policy, so their decision 
doesnt relate to anything specific about Ms Bs personal circumstances. 
The policy renews every year and the terms can be changed each time the policy 
renews. That means there was a new policy each year, not one policy that lasted 
from the point of sale until Ms B reached a specified age. 
That means the relevant policy terms are those from the last renewal in June 2019. 
So Ive also looked at what those documents say too. The Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) says the policy is a 12-month contract and that Cigna 
has the right to cancel the contract. Page two of the policy terms and conditions 
explain that Cigna may not offer to renew policies in certain circumstances. So, I 
think the policy documents made clear enough to Ms B that the policy wasnt 
guaranteed to last until she was a particular age. 
In any event, Ive also looked at the policy documentation from 1993 when Ms B took 
out the policy. It says that the policy would renew in June 1994 and annually 
thereafter. It also says that the period of insurance means, twelve months from the 
Effective Date or Renewal Date. So, whilst it says cover would stop at 75, I still think 
it was clear that the policy renewed every 12 months. 
Based on the policy documents Ive referred to above, including the original 
documents, I cant fairly conclude Cigna has treated Ms B unfairly or acted outside 
the policy terms and conditions.   
Im very sorry to hear that Ms B will now find it difficult to get cover from another 
provider. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Cigna to cancel her policy 
because they were withdrawing from the market.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman