DRN-3656830
The complaint
Mr G complains that JPS Financial Ltd are asking him to pay fees for payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G authorised JPS to act on his behalf in seeking redress for mis-sold PPI. 
The claims were made for loan, mortgage and credit card accounts Mr G had with a lender 
Ill refer to as L. And Mr G had successful claims for some loans and his credit card. Mr G 
paid JPS their success fees for these claims.
But JPS are now asking him to complete letters of authorisation (LoA) and provide final 
response letters for other claims. He said hes spoken to L and provided all of the 
information he can to JPS. But JPS are now asking him to pay administration fees and have 
begun debt collection. Mr G said this has caused him extreme distress, sleepless nights and 
this is after he told JPS that he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Mr G 
complained to JPS.
JPS said theyd acted upon Mr Gs instructions and that hed further claims that they were 
due a fee for. As Mr G hadnt provided the lenders final response, theyd asked him to pay 
for the work theyd done to date.
Mr G wasnt happy with JPS response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that JPS should waive any fee for mortgage account *2784 as this 
claim had been already resolved by the lender before JPS involvement. But she could see 
that another account *6183 had been successful, so JPS could charge their fee for this.
JPS didnt agree and has asked for Mr Gs complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that in 2019 Mr G instructed JPS to pursue mis-sold PPI claims and 
packaged bank account claims. And that Mr G paid JPS their fees for his successful claims. 
What remains in dispute is that JPS is of the opinion that Mr G has had further successful 
claims that he hasnt paid them their fee for this.
Ive considered Mr Gs history of claims with JPS. And the outcome of claims hed with L. 
The agreement Mr G had with JPS was on a No win No fee basis. This means JPS
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. So, 
any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was 
successful, JPS fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This
is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
I can see Mr G had successful PPI claims for four loans  with L and he received redress of 
£5102.57. He paid JPS their success fee of £1,391.09. Mr G had unsuccessful PPI claims 
for three loan accounts, and JPS didnt charge Mr G a fee for these. Mr G also had a 
successful PPI claim for his credit card, for which he received redress of £2,622.66 and he 
paid JPS their success fee of £704.68. JPS has shown Mr G had a successful packaged 
bank account claim, for which he received redress of £755.27 and he paid JPS their fee 
£201.86. This is as I would expect with the agreement Mr G and JPS had.
What remains in dispute is mortgage account *2784 and another loan account *6183.
Loan account *6183
I can see that L upheld this claim in February 2020, so it was successful. Our investigator 
as the claim was successful said that JPS could charge their fee. But despite a successful 
claim, L has shown that there wasnt any redress to calculate and so Mr G didnt receive 
any compensation for the mis-selling of the PPI. As JPS fee is a percentage of the redress, 
Mr G doesnt owe JPS any monies.
Mortgage Account *2784 
Its this account that JPS has said Mr G has failed to send the lenders final response to 
them, and for which theyve looked to charge an administration fee. In December 2019 I can 
see  L told JPS that they didnt hold a valid LoA from Mr G for this claim. JPS asked Mr G 
to send in further LoAs, and I can see signed LoAs dated February 2020 and May 2020. 
In April 2021 after JPS asked him to provide a copy of the FRL,  Mr G asked L to send the 
FRL to him.  But L s account history shows copies of the FRL had already been sent to 
JPS, in March, July, November and December 2020. 
I can also see that thered already been a mis-sold PPI claim made against this account but 
by a different claims management company who werent acting for Mr G. I can see this claim 
was defended by L, so the claim was unsuccessful. The account history also shows L  
sent the FRL in August 2019 . And I think this is why L told JPS, in December 2019 that 
they didnt have a valid LoA for this claim. So, Im satisfied the mis-selling of PPI claim for 
the mortgage account *2784 wasnt made by Mr G and wasnt a result of JPS involvement. 
And as there was no likelihood of another claim being successful JPS cant charge a fee for 
this claim.
Ive also considered whether JPS can charge Mr G for the work that they did for him. JPS 
terms and conditions say:
Where you have failed to advise us of important information associated with an account 
which you have instructed us upon, for example that a previous claim has been made but 
you failed to tell us of this, then we reserve our right to charge you a reasonable fee for work 
done on that case.
But it wasnt Mr G who made the mis-sold PPI claim for *2784 so I cant say he would have 
known that the claim had been made. And if he didnt know about the claim he wouldnt have 
been able to tell JPS about it. The lender has also said they sent a FRL to JPS several times. I think this would have made 
JPS aware that the claim had no likelihood of success. JPS hasnt provided copies of these 
FRLs so I cant know if they received them or not, but I cant hold Mr G responsible for this. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for JPS to charge a fee for the work theyd done. 
This has been a very distressing time for Mr G, and I can see that hes tried to work with JPS 
to get the matter resolved. I can also see that Mr G paid all of JPS success fees for the 
claims hed received redress for without challenge. So, to then be told he now owed money 
for claims he hadnt received any redress for. And that his account was being handed over to 
debt collectors has caused him stress and sleepless nights when he was already 
experiencing problems. So, I agree JPS should pay Mr G £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask JPS Financial Ltd to:
 close and waive any success, administration or late payment fees remaining or 
outstanding for Mr G for mortgage account *2784,
 close any outstanding claim for account ending *6183, although successful no 
redress was payable to resolve the claim and so there wouldnt be any success fee 
due; and 
 pay Mr G £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman