DRN-4399236
The complaint
Mr D complains about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
responded under his home emergency policy to a problem with a leak at his property. 
References to DAS in this decision include their agents who provide services under the 
policy.
This decision covers DAS as the insurer of the home emergency section of Mr Ds home 
insurance policy. It doesnt cover the rest of the policy, provided by separate insurers.
What happened
In March 2023 Mr D had a problem with a leak from the main stopcock into his property. He 
called DAS, who sent an engineer to assess the problem the following day. The engineer 
couldnt find the source of the leak but replaced part of a pipe which contained a valve 
(though Mr D didnt think there was a leak from the valve) and said there was no longer a 
leak, and the water was due to condensation. He told Mr D the pipes needed to be fully 
lagged. Mr D lagged the pipes, then noticed a leak from the shaft of the stopcock.
He rang DAS, who sent the same engineer back to the property. He opened the stopcock 
and put in some PTFE tape, which reduced the leak. He also said hed order a new stopcock 
and return to fit it. When he didnt return, Mr D rand DAS who sent out another engineer, but 
he wasnt aware of the stopcock being ordered. He tightened a nut on the stopcock, which 
stopped the leak. However, the leak had left the cupboard the stopcock was housed in 
soaking wet. 
Based on water meter displays, the engineer said there was a leak from somewhere else 
that needed to be investigated through leak detection. DAS told Mr D he would have to pay 
an additional l£350 for the investigation  but when this was done, no leak was found.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr D complained to DAS. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response they referred to the engineer visits, including resealing the 
stopcock with tape and the further visit that didnt detect a leak and recommended the leak 
detection investigation. Based on this, DAS concluded their engineers carried out their 
diagnoses and repairs. Leak detection investigations werent covered under the policy. But 
DAS said that, as Mr D had engaged his own engineers to carry out a leak detection, they 
would consider reimbursement if he sent them an invoice.
Mr D then complained to this Service. He was unhappy at being charged an 
additional £350 as well as the additional cost of a stopcock that DAS said theyd 
replace but hadnt. He wanted DAS to refund the £350 charge and fix the fault 
properly by replacing the stopcock and the valve that was unnecessarily removed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, concluding DAS didnt need to take 
any action. She noted the engineer visits, applying tape to the stopcock and then, 
subsequently, finding no leaks and recommending a leak detection investigation. In 
the circumstances, the investigator thought the recommendation was reasonable. 
She also hadnt seen evidence Mr D was told DAS would replace the stopcock.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He challenged the view on several grounds. First, he said the 
stopcock continued to leak after the first engineer visit, when he (Mr D) applied 
lagging to the pipes. The second visit on the same day reduced the leak (by applying 
tape) and when Mr D said he was told they would order a new stopcock. The third 
visit (by a different engineer) applied further tape and tightened a nut on the stopcock, 
stopping the leak.
Mr D also challenged the engineer views, the first replacing (unnecessarily) pipework 
and the valve. And then saying a new stopcock would be ordered on the second visit. 
Mr D also said he wasnt provided with a report from the leak detection investigation, 
being called to take his payment and told in the investigation visit there wasnt a leak. 
Mr D said he was told by the leak investigation firm they didnt understand why one 
had been recommended when the source of the leak was known.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether DAS has acted fairly towards Mr D.
The key issue in Mr Ds complaint is how DAS have dealt with the leak at his property, the 
sequence of engineer visits and the various repairs carried out. And then being charged 
£350 for a leak detection investigation (which didnt find a further leak). Mr D isnt happy with 
the work carried out and then the £350 leak detection report. Hes also unhappy at not 
having his stopcock replaced, which he said hes been told would be replaced.
In considering this issue, Ive looked at the evidence and information provided by both Mr D 
and by DAS, including the latters case records including job reports from the engineers. 
Having done so, Ive concluded DAS have acted fairly and reasonably in accordance with 
the home emergency section of his policy. I know this will be disappointing to Mr D, so Ill set 
out why Ive come to this conclusion. 
Looking at the sequence of events, from what Ive seen, the first engineer visit (from what Mr 
D said) replaced a section of pipe and a valve and recommended full lagging be applied.to 
the piping. At this point, Mr D noticed a leak from the stopcock. The second visit applied tape 
to the stopcock which reduced the leak. The third visit applied more tape and tightened a 
nut, which stopped the leak. As the purpose of home emergency is to identify the issue and 
apply a temporary repair (in this case to a leak) then I dont think this is unreasonable. 
Finding the source of a problem (the leak in this case) can sometimes take more than one 
visit, as is the case here.
Mr D says he was told by the engineer that the stopcock would be replaced, but that the 
second engineer wasnt aware of this being the case. Ive not seen any other evidence to 
support this, including DAS case notes and job reports. But, in any event, the subsequent 
visit by the second engineer appears to have stopped the leak. That being the case, while I 
recognise Mr D is unhappy at not being provided with a replacement stopcock, if the leak 
had been stopped then that would have discharged DASs obligation under the terms of the 
policy. So, I cant say DAS have acted unreasonably or require them to replace the stopcock 
(as the leak had been stopped).The other key issue is Mr D being charged £350 for a leak investigation, recommended by 
the DAS engineer. Which Mr D says was unnecessary as it didnt find a leak. Looking at 
DASs case notes, they state (from the second engineers visit):
inside the kitchen cupboard there is a lot of condensation and some pipes have 
been replaced. I have [tightened] everything up and cannot find anything leaking but 
for it to be causing this much condensation there must be something leaking inside 
the wall or coming from the mains pipe underneath the cupboard. I have checked the 
water meter and it is flashing every few minutes, so water is getting by somewhere 
so the best thing to do is to get a leak detector to check the main pipe.
Given the circumstances described, I dont think it unreasonable that a leak detection 
investigation was recommended. And while the subsequent investigation concluded there 
wasnt a further leak, that wouldnt, in my view, invalidate retrospectively the 
recommendation, even though I note Mr Ds comment about what he said he was told by the 
leak investigation firm.
Ive also notes DAS have offered to consider reimbursing Mr D for the investigation on 
receipt of an invoice or report. From what Ive seen, this would need to be obtained by the 
policy insurer (as distinct from DAS). I dont think DASs offer is unreasonable, so I wont be 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman