DRN-1705022
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr T entered into an agreement with Blue Motor Finance to finance the purchase of a used 
car on 16 September 2017. In August 2019 the car broke down. The car was recovered to a 
main dealership and investigations confirmed that the timing chain had snapped. The car 
now needs repair work costing around £15,000.
Mr T complained to Blue Motor Finance that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Blue Motor 
Finance rejected Mr Ts complaint on the basis that he had owned the car for 2 years and 
travelled around 35,000 miles before the fault and so it was likely to be wear and tear. Mr T 
didnt agree and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. They 
didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the fault the car had now was there or 
developing at the point of sale.
Mr T didnt agree and replied to say in summary that a timing chain was not a serviceable 
item and should last the lifetime of the car. He said that the garage had said that there was 
an unknown cause for the snapped chain, and it was not wear and tear.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied to Mr T was three and a half years old, had been driven for 75,500 
miles and had a price of £11,337.54. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means 
that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There were no issues with the car until the breakdown in August 2019. Mr T had covered 
over 39,000 miles in that time.
Theres clearly a fault with the engine caused by the timing chain snapping. I dont have any 
evidence to say why the timing chain snapped. Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault 
was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr T. Mr T has been able to use the 
car for two years and to drive more than 39,000 miles in it before the car has failed. The total 
mileage the car has covered is now over 114,000. So, Im not persuaded that the issues the 
car has now were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr T.
I understand the point Mr T is making with respect to the timing chain and the fact that it is 
not a serviceable part. But I cant say that the chain should last indefinitely or that it hasnt 
provided reasonable use. I sympathise with Mr T for the issues that hes had with the car 
and for the repairs that it now needs  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Blue 
Motor Finance to allow Mr T to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any 
compensation to him or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman