DRN-4304182
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S were on holiday with their two children in the summer of 2022. One of their 
children became unwell and required treatment. 
Mrs K and Mr Ss claim was declined on the basis they hadnt accurately declared their 
childs medical history. Mrs K and Mr S complained to IPA but they maintained the decision 
to decline the claim.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint in part. He thought the 
claim had been fairly declined but he thought that IPA should refund the premiums in full, in 
line with the relevant legislation. 
IPA accepted our investigators findings. Mrs K and Mr S didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. They highlighted that some of the dates IPA referred 
to werent correct and that theyd relied on incomplete or inaccurate information. They also 
said that IPA kept on referring to page 17 of the policy document which didnt apply in this 
case. 
So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances of Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint, particularly as 
it arose from one of their young children being unwell and as I understand that theyve been 
left with considerable medical bills. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA says Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered questions about the familys medical history. Ive looked at the available 
information about what questions were asked during the sale. 
I accept the policy was sold over the phone but unfortunately the call recording is no longer 
available. So, Ive considered whats most likely to have happened during the sale. The call 
was reviewed by IPA as part of the complaint process. The notes say that Mr S was asked 
by the call handler, who was following a script: 
Within the last 2 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness, or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication (including repeat prescriptions) or 
treatment including surgery, tests or investigations? 
According to the notes Mr S answered no. As this is a detailed note of the relevant 
question, from someone with access to the original call recording, I think its most likely this 
is what was said in the call. I also think its reasonable to rely on this record of the call in the 
absence of other information. Ive taken into account Mr Ss recollection of the sales process 
but I think its fair and reasonable to place more weight on the detailed note of the call as I 
think it most accurately reflects the conversation that took place.  
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with I think Mr S ought to have answered yes to 
that question. The medical evidence provided to IPA during the claims handling process 
indicated that Mr Ss child had received treatment within the relevant timeframe for a number 
of conditions. 
IPA has provided evidence that if Mr S had answered yes to this question he wouldnt have 
been offered this policy as IPA doesnt offer cover for previous medical conditions under this 
particular brand of policy and Mr S would have been directed to a different type of policy. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
IPA accepted our investigators findings that Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless, not 
deliberate or reckless. I agree it was a careless misrepresentation as I dont think Mr S was 
trying to deceive or mislead IPA. I think its more likely it was an honest mistake. 
Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless so Ive looked at the 
actions IPA can take in accordance with CIDRA. As IPA wouldnt have offered cover they 
can avoid the policy and refuse all claims. But they should return the premiums. 
When Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service Mr S hadnt been 
offered a refund of his premiums. I think he should have been, in line with the remedy 
outlined in CIDRA. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about page 17 of the policy documentation. But it 
hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Page 17 is entitled, 
Important conditions relating to health. At the top of the page it says: 
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS POLICY DOES NOT COVER PRE-EXISTING 
MEDICAL CONDITIONS.The policy document then goes on to explain what a pre-existing medical condition is. That 
includes any medical condition treated which has been diagnosed or treated within the last 
two years. 
I appreciate that Mrs K and Mr S may not have been claiming for a pre-existing condition but 
I do think it is relevant to their complaint. Thats because I think it was a further prompt to 
Mrs K and Mr S to check that theyd accurately disclosed information about their medical 
history. If theyd contacted their insurer upon reading this, and discussed their childrens 
medical history, IPA would have been able to let them know that they wouldnt have cover 
under this policy. So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of the 
complaint.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct IPA to put things right by avoiding the policy and 
refunding the premiums Mrs K and Mr S paid. They should also pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the premiums from 7 September 2022 until the date of settlement. 
If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs K and Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
I dont think IPA needs to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman