DRN-2150434
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) unreasonably removed the 
promotional rate of interest on his credit card account following a missed payment.
What happened
Mr S had a 0% promotional rate of interest (the promotional rate) on his credit card. In 
January 2019 he missed a payment as there were insufficient funds in his account at that 
time. He did however make the payment three days later when he became aware it had 
been missed, clearing the arrears. But Mr S didnt realise that in accordance with its terms 
and conditions, Clydesdale had removed the promotional rate resulting in interest being 
applied each month at the variable rate. 
Thereafter Mr S made the minimum payment to his account by direct debit, except for his 
March 2019 payment, which he also missed. The missed payments also led to his account 
being charged with a failed payment charge of £9 and late payment charge of £9 on each 
occasion. Clydesdale sent Mr S a letter after each missed payment advising him that they 
were making these default sum charges.
Mr S was unhappy that Clydesdale didnt notify him of the lost promotional rate and that they 
hadnt considered he remedied the first missed payment within three days.
Clydesdale didnt think they had done anything wrong as they had acted in line with their 
terms and conditions, and so rejected Mr Ss complaint.   Mr S disagreed and so approached 
this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint but thought that Clydesdale hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S applied for his credit card on line. In doing so he was given various pieces of 
information relating to such matters as rates, fees and terms and conditions. Clydesdale 
have provided a screen shot of part of that information which advises Mr S the following;
If we do not receive the minimum payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement 
period.
Mr S was also sent the terms and conditions applicable to the account and these say at 
section 7.5
If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your Credit 
Limit, we will withdraw any promotional rate with effect from the start of that 
statement period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the 
current standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
I know Mr S received the terms and conditions because part of the application process 
requires him to tick a box to say that he agrees to them and had he not then his application 
wouldnt have been processed.
In addition, each statement sent to Mr S prior to him missing the payment in January 
contained the following notice about the promotional rate.
Important information about promotional interest rates
When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the current standard 
interest rate that applies to that transaction type.
If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement 
period.
So, its clear Mr S knew, or at least was on notice that if he should fail to make the minimum 
monthly payment then the promotional rate would be lost, and further, that it would be 
actioned automatically from the start of the statement period. So, although Mr S feels that 
Clydesdale ought to have written to him to point out the promotional rate of interest had been 
lost, its clear that wasnt what Clydesdale had agreed to do.
Clydesdale also explained in some detail on his January 2019 statement how interest had 
been charged for that month as well as notifying him the two £9 fees charged. And the 
statements which followed also show that interest was being charged, including the March 
statement which explained how the further two £9 fees had also been charged.
I understand Mr S didnt receive these statements because he hadnt set up his online 
account and he also hadnt elected to receive paper statements. And I can accept that it was 
only in February 2020 that Mr S first knew of the lost promotional rate when he received 
Clydesdales letter. But I cant fairly criticise Clydesdale for Mr S not setting up his online 
account, since only he could do that. Ive seen the evidence that Clydesdale did send Mr S 
everything he needed to set up his online account and having done so then it was up to Mr S 
to do that. Had he not wanted to, then he could have asked for paper statements to be sent 
to him. I think it is reasonable to expect each customer to manage their own accounts by 
checking their statements and its clear here that Mr S didnt. 
But even if Mr S had seen his account statements, that wouldnt have made any difference 
to the removal of the promotional rate, because the missed payment had already triggered it.
So, the issue comes down to whether it was reasonable, or fair, of Clydesdale to remove the 
promotional rate bearing in mind Mr S remedied his late payment within three days. And 
also, whether more could have been done to communicate with him. From the evidence Ive 
set out above, I think Clydesdales communication was good. They set out very clearly a 
number of times what would happen if the minimum payment wasnt made, which included 
that the promotional rate would be applied immediately. So, although Mr S made his 
payment three days after he was supposed to, as a fact it was late and triggered the 
promotional rate withdrawal. And I dont think thats unfair because its what he agreed to.
I accept Mr S was unaware that interest was being applied at the variable rate, but again I 
dont consider Clydesdale have acted unfairly because it told Mr S about that on the 
statements, and I cant criticise Clydesdale for Mr S not checking his statements. So, in conclusion I think Clydesdale followed their process correctly and in line with their 
terms and conditions, removed the promotional rate and applied the charges and interest 
correctly. I am not therefore upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman