DRN-4256127
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to the purchase of timeshare 
products using his credit card.    
What happened
In or around May 2011, Mr R and his wife agreed to upgrade their existing timeshare 
membership with a company Ill refer to as D. The upgrade involved the purchase of points 
rights in a timeshare scheme operated by D at a cost of £3,000. The purchase was funded 
by making payments of £600 and £2,400 using a credit card with Clydesdale in Mr Rs sole 
name. The points could be used to book holidays and accommodation from a portfolio 
operated by D.
In or around January 2012, Mr and Mrs R agreed to upgrade their timeshare membership 
with D by purchasing an additional 12,000 points rights at a cost of £6,500. After an initial 
payment of £1,300 using Mr Rs credit card, documentation suggests the balance was to be 
paid by way of 12 monthly payments of £434, also from Mr Rs credit card.
In or around January 2017, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs R 
submitted a claim to Clydesdale under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). The PR said that D had made a number of promises to Mr and Mrs R about the 
products which turned out not to be true. In particular, the PR said:
by entering into the contract, Mr and Mrs R would gain access to a particular 
service/benefit. But as they already had access to that benefit, this was 
misrepresented; and
Mr and Mrs R could rent out their new points to cover their management fees. But 
they received no rental income.
In response to the claim, Clydesdale asked the PR to provide evidence to support any 
alleged breach of contract or misrepresentation. PR replied by alleging that Mr and Mrs R 
had purchased membership of an exclusive club. They said, It must be accepted that [Mr 
and Mrs R] would gain access to exclusive resorts, namely accommodation unavailable to 
non-members, and/or accommodation which is cheaper than can be found elsewhere.
Clydesdale didnt uphold the claim. They said, Mr R has been using the service of [D] 
extensively since 2011 and has booked for 2017[]. They said there was no evidence that 
Mr R had purchased the points merely to gain access to the particular benefit(s) suggested. 
They also said there was no evidence to suggest that access to any rental programme was a 
factor in Mr Rs decision to purchase. Or that hed ever expressed an interest in advertising 
the points for rental.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response to Mr Rs claim, a complaint was raised with them. But 
Clydesdale didnt agree theyd done anything wrong and believed they werent able to justify 
Mr Rs claim.
The PR referred Mr Rs complaint to this service. Having considered all the information and 
evidence available, our investigator didnt think there was any evidence to support any 
misrepresentation by D. And as a consequence, didnt think Clydesdale had treated Mr R 
unfairly.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as an informal resolution couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider further. In support of Mr Rs 
claim, the PR wish to rely on a 51-page document produced by counsel containing Generic 
submissions on behalf of complainants, which relates specifically to complaints about the 
sale of points products by D. This is supplemented by a six-page document, from the PR, 
providing observations and alegations relating to Ds sales procedures and documentation.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, whilst I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 15 June 2023  giving 
the PR, Mr R and Clydesdale the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a 
final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
The purchase here was completed using a credit card in Mr Rs sole name. So, while 
the claim submitted was in joint names with his wife, Mr R is the only eligible claimant 
under the CCA and, as such, the only eligible complainant.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
R paid for the timeshare points with a credit card issued by Clydesdale, so it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr R is afforded the protection offered 
to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Clydesdales treatment of Mr 
Rs claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. 
While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the 
consumer, we do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling the holiday products in 
2011 and 2012. In other words, that they told Mr R something that wasnt true in 
relation to one or more of any points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that 
these misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr R to enter the contracts. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that Mr R reasonably relied on these false 
statements when deciding to buy the membership points/upgrades.Allegations have been made specifically relating to the product sales referenced 
above. The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the 
sale. The PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the 
misrepresentations Mr R says the seller made, although I acknowledge that he does 
say he was told these things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the limited 
evidence thats available from the time of Mr Rs purchases.
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any specific evidence from the 
time of the sale, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase 
documentation. And whilst I have seen the front pages of the purchase agreements 
together with the associated points certificates, I cant see that these support what Mr 
R says he was told or that what was said amounted to misrepresentation. And while I 
dont doubt the honesty of his recollections, honesty isnt the same as credibility  
which is an important distinction to make for the purpose of this complaint (see what 
Mr Justice Leggatt had to say in Gestmin SGPC S.A. v Credit Suisse (UK) Limited 
[2013].1
But even if I was to put to one side what the courts might say about the reliability of 
human memory, experience tells me that the more time that passes between a 
complaint and the event complained about, the more risk there is of recollections 
being vague, inaccurate and influenced by discussions with others. And having not 
been present at the time of the Sale, it isnt possible for me to determine with 
certainty what Mr R was or wasnt told by D. So, in the end, the part his recollections 
play in determining the outcome of this complaint comes down to the extent they can 
be corroborated given the other evidence available.
For example, the PR have reached a conclusion that exclusivity equates to 
accommodation unavailable to non-members and/or accommodation which is 
cheaper than can be found elsewhere. But the PR havent provided any evidence 
specific to Mr Rs purchase which references or defines exclusivity. So, this appears 
to be either the PRs or Mr Rs own interpretation rather than what was actually 
communicated, whether verbally or in writing.
Ive also considered the various points included in the Counsels submissions 
provided by the PR. However, these were generic points and not specific to Mr Rs 
recollections of the sale. So, I dont think they offered much help in making factual 
findings in Mr Rs case. And regarding the additional points raised in another 
document provided by the PR, the conclusion of that document suggests, the 
moment [D] commenced sale of the Fractionalised Points product in 2012 there was 
a fundamental breach of the [] Points Contract. As far as I can see, the products 
purchased by Mr R werent part of Ds Fractional timeshare product scheme. So, I 
think they serve little (if any) help in supporting the claims of misrepresentation here. 
Conclusion
Having considered everything thats been said together with the limited evidence 
available here, Ive not been able to find anything that supports the alegations of 
misrepresentation under S75. And on that basis, I cant say that Clydesdales 
response to Mr Rs claim was ultimately unreasonable or unfair. While I do 
appreciate Mr R will be disappointed, I dont intend asking Clydesdale to do anything 
more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 This was followed in Lachaux v Lachaux [2017], discussed with approval and explained by the Court of Appeal in Kogan v 
Martin [2019] (see, in particular, paragraph 88) and quoted with approval by the Supreme Court in Bancoult, R (on the 
application of) (No 3) v Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Respondent) [2018].reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale have acknowledged receipt of my PD and confirmed they have nothing further to 
add.
Despite follow up attempts by this service, the PR have neither acknowledged receipt of my 
PD nor provided anything further for me to consider.
With the time for further comment and evidence having now passed and in the absence of 
anything further to consider here, Ive found no reason to vary from my original findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman