DRN-3044133
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a home insurance policy by Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited (Brightside).
  
What happened
Mr N bought home contents insurance over the phone through Brightside who is a broker. 
He specifically said that he wanted the policy to cover cash away from the home, and he 
was told that it did. 
Mr N made a claim under his policy after he had £110 in cash and a mobile phone stolen 
from him during a street robbery on 19 June 2019. His insurer declined his claim for the cash 
on the basis that it was not covered under the policy.
Mr N then complained to Brightside. Investigations were carried out and Brightside accepted 
that during the initial sales call they had wrongly advised Mr N that cash was covered. They 
offered to reimburse the £110 cash not covered under the policy provided Mr N could supply 
documents to substantiate his loss. Brightside say that these documents were not received.
Mr N was not happy that the money was not paid to him and brought his complaint to us. He 
said that he was mis-sold the policy and wants either his premiums refunded to him, or 
payment to the value of the stolen cash. He said he had already provided his bank 
statement. 
Our investigator looked into this matter. He didnt think Mr N had provided the correct page 
of his bank statement, so Mr N provided this and it was sent to Brightside. Our investigator 
concluded that as the bank statement had now been provided, Brightside should pay Mr N 
the sum of £110 as agreed, and £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Brightside said that they have now paid £110 as a gesture of goodwill but did not agree that 
they should pay compensation as they did not think that Mr N had been inconvenienced. 
They said that the matter could have been concluded sooner if Mr N had provided the bank 
statement earlier and if his instructions had been consistent. They asked for the matter to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brightside accept that the policy was mis-sold to Mr N, so I dont intend to go over the 
circumstances of the mis-selling. They have also now paid Mr N £110 representing the 
stolen cash as a gesture of goodwill. The only outstanding issue is whether Brightside 
should pay Mr N compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Compensation isnt intended to fine or punish a business but is a recognition of the 
emotional and practical impact that a mistake can have. Mr N was the victim of crime, and 
his cash claim was declined by his insurer because of Brightsides mistake. This must have 
been upsetting for Mr N as he was sure that he had asked for cash to be covered under the 
policy, and he was in fact correct. 
Its not clear exactly when Brightside agreed to pay Mr N the cash sum, but from what Ive 
seen it appears to be before Mr Ns interview with the investigator. This was in the middle of 
July 2019. I accept that much of the delay in this case was a result of Mr N not providing the 
correct bank statement, and I dont hold Brightside responsible for this. However, the initial 
mistake was Brightsides responsibility and there was a period of time whilst the matter was 
initially investigated when Mr N could not have been sure that the mis-selling would be 
accepted. Mr N says that he suffers from mental health problems and I accept that trying to 
sort this matter out has caused him emotional distress as he has said.
Brightside say that Mr N was not inconvenienced. However, Mr Ns complaint about mis-
selling was upheld by Brightside and he has had to spend time communicating with them, 
and the insurer, trying to resolve this issue. I therefore agree with our investigator and think it 
would be fair for Brightside to pay Mr N £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr N £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman