DRN-3738339
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd handled her claim on her 
home insurance and the settlement it offered.
What happened
Ms S had home insurance with Accredited. In January 2021 she made a claim after 
discovering a leak at her home. This was initially identified as a leak from the internal stop 
tap in the downstairs toilet. This was repaired and drying and repair work commenced to the 
damaged parts of the property. 
This included flooring across three rooms being removed and replaced due to water 
damage. However once this was complete Ms S reported that the floor was bulging and 
misshapen. Accrediteds contractors returned a few times to try and rectify the problem, 
before eventually discovering there had been a second leak from directly beneath the floor 
which was causing the issue. 
Accredited then proceeded to offer a final settlement for the remaining repairs. It said its 
contractors could carry out the remaining work, but Ms S had been unhappy with the work to 
date so requested a cash settlement. Accredited offered £10,000 for the remaining work. 
However Ms S said it would cost a lot more than this. She obtained a report that quoted 
around £25,000 to reinstate the property. She made a complaint.
Accredited didnt uphold the complaint. It said its quote was based on the remaining insured 
work, at its contractors costs. And Ms S quote contained additional work that fell outside of 
its liability. Further it said that while the claim had taken a long time to conclude, the delays 
were unavoidable. Unhappy with this, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and thought Accredteds settlement was a fair one. 
He said that it covered the cost of its liability at its contractors rates which is what it is 
obliged to pay to settle the claim. However he thought Accredited had caused avoidable 
delays so recommended it pay £400 compensation to make up for these.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said the quote from Accredited hadnt 
included enough to cover the real cost of relaying the floor and had missed the required 
underlay completely. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S isnt happy with the settlement Accredited has offered and says it wont cover the 
required repairs. It isnt the role of this service to decide what repairs are required in order to 
restore a property, as we arent experts in construction and building repairs. Instead we rely 
on the opinions of those who are experts. I therefore need to decide if Accredited has offered 
a fair settlement based on the available evidence. 
Having reviewed everything available, I think the settlement offer is fair for the following 
reasons:
Accredited has offered to have its contractors carry out the work rather than cash 
settling. It is therefore only obliged to pay the amount it would cost it to get the work 
done, rather than the market rate which may be higher. Insurers often have 
negotiated rates with their own suppliers so the amount it pays is usually below the 
market rate. But as it has offered to carry out the work, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to 
pay more than it is obliged to.
Accredited has provided a costed scope of works that it says meets its liability. And 
while Ms S has provided her own quotes, this is based on some additional work that 
isnt covered under the policy (for example the flooring in the hall way) and some 
additional costs for preferred materials (for example the type of flooring and damp 
proof membrane). And Ive seen nothing to show that Accrediteds scope isnt 
enough to repair the property.
I note Ms S is particularly concerned about the costs included for laying the flooring, 
as she says these are not enough to properly secure the flooring or to include her 
preferred materials. Accredited has confirmed that the scope includes the full cost of 
replacing the floor, and this includes a liquid damp proofing and sufficient budget for 
like for like replacement of the materials. While I appreciate Ms S would prefer 
another method to be used for the damp proofing and flooring, Accredited is only 
required to repair the property to the condition it was in before the claim. This means 
it may not be using her preferred materials or methods, but just those required to 
complete the repair. So I cant say its acted unfairly by not including a damp proof 
membrane rather than a liquid one or her preferred flooring materials. However Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the proposed scope wouldnt fully restore the floor. 
Further, Accredited has shown that it has rounded up the costs for the repairs by 
nearly £2,000 as a goodwill gesture. So considering this, alongside its costed scope 
of works I think the settlement its offered is a fair one that meets its obligations under 
the policy. So I wont ask it to do anything further in this regard.
Should Ms S have concerns about getting the required work completed within 
Accrediteds settlement she still has the option to ask it to carry out the work itself.
Ive also considered how Accredited has handled the claim since it was raised. I agree it has 
taken longer to resolve than I would expect, however not all the delays could reasonably 
have been avoided. The main issue that caused a delay was the fact the floor had to be 
relayed. And while it seemed this was due to poor workmanship to begin with, it later 
transpired that this was due to a second leak. While I note Ms S thinks that the second leak 
was caused by Accrediteds contractor, Ive not seen enough evidence to show this was the 
case. Further, from reading Accrediteds internal claim notes I can see that the contractor 
questioned why there was moisture under the lounge floor when the leak was so remote, 
right from the start. Which suggests the leak was already present and the issue wasnt 
related to the repairs.
However, from looking at the correspondence between Ms S and Accredited I think it could 
have progressed the claim more quickly. There are a number of occasions where Ms S has 
to chase it, often more than once, in order to get the claim to progress. And this would have 
been inconvenient for her. Further, I can see that Accrediteds contractors left debris and 
rubbish in Ms S garden for nearly a month which would have been both inconvenient and 
distressing for Ms S. For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Accredited should 
pay £400 compensation to make up for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Ms S £400 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman