DRN-3843193
The complaint
Mr S complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to
switch his Personal Pension (PP), Stakeholder Personal Pension (SPP) and Free-Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution pension (FSAVC) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
What happened
On 28 October 2014, Portal advised Mr S to transfer his PP and SPP to a SIPP after hed 
seen an online advert inviting him to get in touch with it to access tax free cash (TFC) from 
his pensions. 
The suitability report says Mr S was aged 56, married and not working, but in receipt of 
benefits. It said he was living in a property he owned worth around £70,000 that had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £22,000 and that he had around £150 disposable income 
per month. The suitability report notes Mr S had a PP and SPP with transfer value of 
£44,804 and £2,845 respectively and that his desired retirement age was 66. And while 
Portal determined Mr S had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk (ATR) it 
recommended he invest his pensions in what it said was a balanced risk portfolio, given his 
capacity for loss and term to retirement. 
Mr S accepted Portals advice, so the SIPP was established and the value of his PP and 
SPP was transferred and invested (after Mr S had taken TFC) in line with this.
In January 2016, Mr S reapproached Portal for advice on also switching his FSAVC to his 
SIPP, which had a transfer value of £5,848. The suitability report says this was to access 
TFC to help pay bills and put towards living costs. Portal carried out a new risk-profiling 
exercise and the fact find said Mr S now wanted to take moderately cautious approach, so 
his investment funds were amended. 
On 12 November 2020, Mr S complained to Portal that its advice was unsuitable. In 
summary, he said it lured him in with the prospect of accessing TFC and didnt consider if he 
could do so from his existing schemes. Mr S said a SIPP was unsuitable for him due to the 
additional complexity and fees. And that the moderately adventurous risk profile it gave him 
isnt a fair reflection, considering he wasnt working and had no means to make up for 
investment losses. Mr S said his investments werent diversified and havent performed 
particularly well. He also said Portal gave him the impression its advice was free, when it 
wasnt, and payment being taken from the transfer value meant it was in Portals interests for 
Mr S to go ahead with the switches. 
Portal responded in January 2021, saying that Mr S had made his complaint too late. It said 
he ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from the suitability report and 
declaration he returned in 2014. And from an annual review letter and chaser it sent him in 
2017. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service in April 2021, adding that he approached Portal 
after seeing its advert as TFC was of interest to him as he wasnt working. And that, while he 
had no urgent needs, he thought TFC would be useful. Mr S said he shouldnt have been 
advised to switch to take TFC in that case, and that if he needed this he could probably have 
accessed it from his existing schemes. Mr S said its likely he would have left his funds 
invested until his desired retirement age or he would have taken TFC from his existing 
schemes. But if that wasnt possible and the transfer was suitable, Portals investment 
advice still wasnt.
One of our investigators said we couldnt consider Mr S complaint, as it had been made too 
late.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the pension switch took place in 2015, which means his complaint 
was made in time. And that he became aware he had cause for complaint around the time 
he contacted his representative, in August 2020.
As the parties didnt agree, Mr Ss complaints been referred to me for a decision.
I let Portal and Mr S know I intended to say Mr S complaint had been made in time, but that 
I wont be upholding it. This is because, while switching his pensions to a SIPP was likely to 
have been more costly overall, Im not persuaded that Portals advice was unsuitable in light 
of Mr S objective of accessing TFC. I also said I didnt think it was likely Mr S had lost out as 
a result of Portals investment advice, because even if it got his risk profile wrong in 2014 by 
saying it was moderately adventurous and it recommended he invest mainly in one fund, it 
actually recommended he invest in a lower risk fund than this. And the funds looked to have 
performed well, given Portal said in 2016 that his pension had grown by 12%. 
Portal didnt respond. Mr S provided information about his PP, his biggest scheme, saying 
this shows he could have achieved his objective of accessing TFC from his existing 
schemes rather than switching. He said Portal didnt consider this possibility. And he 
confirmed that this is his main issue of complaint. Mr S also said that while his pension fund 
has grown to an extent, if suitable advice had been given then he wouldnt have switched, so 
a loss calculation should be done to reflect that to see if hes suffered any loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The rules our service is bound by, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules - found in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook - say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business
consents (Portal hasnt), we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us:
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
That is, unless the complainant referred the complaint to the business or our Service within
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of this having been
received.
The event complained of is the advice Mr S was given to switch his PP, SPP and FSAVC to 
a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, which he says resulted in a loss. As the three 
switches were the result of two sets of advice as set out above, in 2014 and 2016, Ive 
considered the respective timescales in which Mr S has raised his complaint. I think Mr S complaint about the advice he was given in 2016 to switch his FSAVC to his 
existing SIPP has been referred to us within six years of the event, given he raised his 
complaint with Portal in 2020 and then referred it to our service in 2021. This means we can 
consider Mr S complaint about the advice he was given by Portal in 2016. 
Turning to the advice Mr S was given by Portal on 28 October 2014, as he didnt raise his 
complaint with Portal about this until 12 November 2020 and then refer it to our service until 
2021, it has been referred to us more than six years after the event. This means I have to 
decide if Mr S was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained to Portal. 
Portals said Mr S ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from the suitability 
report, as this made him aware of the risks involved and that he should contact it if he had 
any queries. And because he signed a declaration confirming he agreed to everything 
detailed in this. But I dont agree. I wouldnt expect Mr S to have had cause for concern at 
the time he was given the advice that something might have gone wrong, considering hed 
just received Portals advice and was relying in it, and given it was from an experienced 
adviser. 
Looking at the annual review and chaser letter Portal sent Mr S in 2017, I can see it outlined 
how his funds were performing and gave Mr S the option to contact it if he felt his risk profile 
had changed from moderately cautious since its last recommendation in 2016. While           
I recognise the letter says Portal was slightly concerned about the performance of Mr S 
pension fund being below the sector average, I think it also reassured him given it went on to 
say this should be more than compensated for by future performance. And it also said Mr S 
fund had grown by 12% since the switches. So I dont think this ought to have given him 
cause for concern that something had gone wrong with the advice, either in relation to his 
risk profile, the investments or the switches. Portal certainly didnt seem concerned, so 
theres no reason for me to think Mr S ought to have been.
I recognise Portal also went on to recommend in the letter that Mr S change his funds due to 
the impact of Brexit. But I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr S being told to do so due to recent 
changes in the market to give him cause for concern that something had gone wrong with 
the advice hed previously been given.
Mr S says he became aware he had cause for complaint about the advice he was given in 
2014 around the time he contacted his representative, in August 2020. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Mr S ought reasonably to have been alerted to a problem with 
this before then. And, as Mr S referred his complaint about the advice to Portal and then our 
Service within three years of August 2020, I think his complaint has been made in time. 
In summary, I think Mr S complaint about the advice Portal gave him in 2014 and 2016 has 
been made in time, which means our Service can consider it.
The advice
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill,
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal totake reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr S. It had
to obtain information as to Mr S knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type
of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mr S to ensure the
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had the
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its client."
In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), also published a checklist for
pension switching. And one of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was whether
the consumer had been switched to a pension thats more expensive than their existing
one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason.
Mr S SIPP wasnt particularly expensive  it had an initial AMC of 0.5%, which was lower 
than his existing schemes at 1% each for his PP and FSAVC and 0.5% for his SPP. And it 
had the effect of combining his existing schemes and the respective AMCs into one. But, as 
well as the 5% initial fee charged by Portal, there would also be other product or fund 
charges. And, while some of these could offset the charges of the existing plan, I think its 
clear there would be a cost to switching, although not a significant one in my view.
While I think its likely the switches would have been marginally more costly to Mr S overall, 
the information from the time of advice, in both 2014 and 2016, notes that his main objective 
was to access TFC. The 2014 suitability says this was to make home improvements and to 
have an emergency fund. And the information from 2016 says Mr S wanted this to help with 
bills and living costs. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S has said that as his need for TFC wasnt urgent, Portal 
ought to have recommended he leave his pensions where they were. And I recognise the 
respective suitability reports note that Mr S had a disposable income, so its unclear why he 
needed help with bills and living costs. Its also unclear what the home improvements he 
needed were. I cant see that Portal discussed with Mr S whether he could take TFC from his 
existing schemes. And I would have expected to see that Portal discussed these things with 
Mr S as part of the advice process in order to meet its above obligations. 
But, that being said, Im mindful that Mr S approached Portal and hes has told us drawing 
money from his pensions was of interest to him as he wasnt working. Hes also clarified that 
his main complaint is that Portal ought to have advised him to leave his pensions where they 
were as he could have achieved his objective of accessing TFC from his existing schemes. 
And hes said that if he couldnt do this then he might have switched his pensions still. In 
which case, it seems to me that Mr S had a genuine objective of accessing TFC from his 
pensions either way. 
While Mr S has provided information about his PP as an example to support that he could 
have taken TFC from his existing schemes rather than switching, I think its unlikely he could 
have done so from any of his three pension schemes without also taking a retirement 
income. I havent seen anything to suggest he could have done so. And I can see from the 
suitability report that he didnt want to do that, as he wanted funds to remain invested and 
retire around age 66. 
In summary, it seems to me that Mr S had a genuine objective of accessing TFC, which he 
couldnt achieve by remaining in his existing schemes. So Im not persuaded the switches 
were unsuitable.Having also considered the suitability of the investments Portal recommended to Mr S in 
2014, I dont think it did anything wrong overall. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has said the investment funds Portal recommended werent in line with his risk profile 
or diversified. But diversification is usually to spread the risk of higher risk funds with those of 
a lower risk. And, while Portal said Mr S attitude to risk was moderately adventurous in 
2014, it went on to recommend what it said was a balanced risk fund to him. And I think the 
recommendation was actually suited to someone with a low to medium risk, given it was 
75% in a fund which had the aim of maximising income whilst preserving capital and 25% in 
cash.
In which case, I dont think there was anything wrong with the suitability of the investments 
Portal recommended to Mr S overall.
The fact find from 2016 says Mr S then wanted to take a moderately cautious approach and 
it recommended changes to his fund as a result. Given Mr S hasnt disputed that this was a 
fair reflection of his risk profile at the time or the suitability of these investments, I havent 
considered the suitability of the investment advice he was given in 2016 any further. 
Mr S is also unhappy with the fees Portal charged him, as he says he was told its advice 
would be free. But all advice has a cost, Portal provided him with a service and I think the 
suitability reports make it sufficiently clear what its fees were and how this would be taken, 
when it said under a section headed Our Adviser Fee that Portal would take its initial fee 
from the residual fund of the total transfer value, after TFC had been taken. And it detailed 
what its yearly review service would cost.  
So, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not asking Portal to do anything here and Im not 
upholding Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman