DRN-2020141
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from his roadside assistance provider, which is 
underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI). Any reference to UKI in my decision includes 
its agents.
What happened
Mr Gs car broke down, so he called his roadside assistance provider. They diagnosed a 
problem with the battery and jumpstarted the car. Shortly after this, Mr Gs car caught fire 
and damaged another of Mr Gs cars and his fence. Mr G thinks it was the actions of the 
roadside assistance provider who should take liability for what happened to his car. To put 
things right, Mr G wants compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced.  
When Mr G complained to UKI, it said it was sorry to hear of what had happened. It said it 
hadnt seen any evidence to suggest its agent had caused the But as Mr G had notified his 
insurance company of the fire, they were dealing with it, therefore UKI wouldnt interfere with 
the investigation. However, UKI agreed to cancel Mr Gs policy as hed requested, without 
asking for any further payments.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with this, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs insurer has already accepted the car was written off and settled his claim. As a result, 
there isnt a diagnostic or garage report which confirms how the fire started. In light of this, I 
need to consider is if I think UKI did something wrong, and if UKI should pay Mr G any 
compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced. However, having considered the 
information provided, I dont think UKI needs to make a payment to Mr G and Ill explain why.
Ive started by considering what UKI was required to do under the policy. When notified of a 
problem with the car, Ive considered what UKI was required to do. Under the Breakdown 
section of the policy booklet it defines a breakdown as:
A situation happening in the UK, during the time of cover, when you cant drive your 
vehicle because of mechanical or electrical failure; fire; theft or attempted theft; or 
malicious damage.
The definition of breakdown also includes flat tyres; running out of fuel; a flat 
battery;or losing or breaking your vehicle keys.  
Its accepted the agent identified a fault with the battery as the reason why the car wouldnt 
start. The agent jumpstarted the battery, shortly after which a fire started in the footwell. 
From what Ive seen, they were required to carry out a roadside repair or, if they couldnt get a car started, recover it to a local garage. As the car was started, it seems a repair was 
carried out. 
However, there isnt any evidence to show that the agent acted incorrectly, or it was as a 
direct result of their actions that the fire started. And without any evidence to suggest UKI 
acted incorrectly, Im not persuaded the agent acted incorrectly. As a result, Im not intending 
to direct UKI to take any further action to put things right for Mr G. 
Im aware the decision Ive reached in this case will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G, 
as I understand the car was very important to him. But I hope he can understand why Ive 
concluded this is a fair outcome for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman