DRN-2510551
The complaint
Ms I complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven home credit loans Morses provided to Ms I between 
March 2017 and December 2019. Here is a brief Loan Table of the approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount
(total to pay 
rounded) Term in 
weeksRate each 
week  Repaid 
1 9 March 2017 £100  (£150) 20 £7.50 28 July 2017
2 28 July 2017 £200  (£330) 33 £10 16 March 2018
3 2 Jan 2018 £250  (£413) 33 £12.50 24 August 2018
4 5 June 2018 £250  (£413) 33 £12.50 24 Jan 2019
5 6 December 
2018£200 (£330) 33 £10 26 July 2019
6 9 May 2019 £200  (£330) 33 £10 17 December 
2019
7 17 Dec 2019 £250 (£425) 34 £12.50 14 May 2020 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Morses shouldnt have 
approved loans 5  to 7. Ms I agreed with the assessment. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
It undertook detailed income, expenditure and credit checks before lending each 
time. The loans were affordable for her. It has received no evidence that the loans 
were unsustainable. 
Ms I had a good repayment history and it was evident that she could afford the loan 
repayments.
It did not consider that it had overcommitted Ms I, or that it had lent irresponsibly to 
her.
the information it said it held within the income and expenditure, the way Ms I 
conducted her accounts and the amounts lent it was unable to agree loans 5 to 7 
were unsustainable,
So, as no agreement had been reached, the complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term and high cost credit - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. These 
include home credit lending situations such as that approved by Morses too.  
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms I 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Is complaint. Ive decided to uphold Ms Is complaint in part 
and have explained why below.
Ms I has not objected to our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making any 
findings in relation to Loans 1 to 4. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms I had 
with Morses and so they are something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 7 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Ms I, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Is case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because at this point Morses ought to have realised Ms I was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. Ms I had been indebted to Morses for around 20 months. So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms I was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole making the earlier loan repayments was leaving in her finances and that Ms Is 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Morses points to the income and expenditure figures and says that those figures it calculated 
show that Ms I had enough disposable weekly income to cover the loan repayments. But by 
the time the twenty month mark had arrived and Ms I was still coming back for more loans, it 
ought to have realised she was not able to manage on her income and constantly needed 
more. 
Morses has said it verified Ms Is income externally with credit reference agencies. I have not 
been told at what point in time this was done. And the sentence reveals an income 
verification not a full credit search. And I have not received any records of those verifications 
or any credit search result information from Morses.
There were no breaks in the lending from the start and Ms I. I dont think Ms I was making 
any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. This was increasing over time. Loan 5 was 
taken out about 20 months after Ms Is first loan. And it was for a larger amount. Ms I had 
paid interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms I lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Is indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Ms I borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Is ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 7 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms I from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms I may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms I in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms I would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Ms I paid on loans 5  to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries from loan 5 onwards should be removed from 
Ms Is credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Ms I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Is complaint in part and Morses Club PLC should do as 
I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman