DRN-2730688
The complaint
Mr B complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to withhold his money when they decided to 
close his account.
What happened
Mr B held a current account with TSB. In September 2019, TSB blocked Mr Bs account 
while they carried out a review. As part of their review, TSB asked Mr B questions in relation 
to recent payments which had been paid into his account.
Mr B attended a local TSB branch and provided various statements showing where the 
recent money paid into his account had come from. He explained that one of his friends 
needed money, so he borrowed money from other friends to help with the loan. 
TSB werent satisfied that the statements proved Mr Bs entitlement to the funds. So the 
account, including the money in it, remained blocked.
In October 2019, TSB completed their review and made the decision to close Mr Bs account 
immediately. TSB explained that they wouldnt be releasing the money in the account until 
they were satisfied of Mr Bs entitlement to it. Mr B brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said TSB were entitled to review, block 
and subsequently close his account. And she was satisfied that TSB were fair in holding the 
funds as they hadnt been satisfied of Mr Bs entitlement to them.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he said;
he was satisfied that TBS could close the account;
hed provided bank statements to show where the money had come from before 
entering his account;
if TSB suspected fraud, they should contact the police;
he hasnt been able to speak to TSBs fraud team directly;
TSB cant hold on to his money indefinitely;
the whole situation has caused him financial strain and trauma.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know how 
strongly Mr B feels about things so this will come as a great disappointment to him. So, Ive 
explained my reasons below.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr B wants the money in his account released to him.
Firstly, TSB has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an 
account is opened. To comply with their obligations, TSB may need to review an account 
and/or restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Bs account. In order to 
meet these legal and regulatory requirements, TSB is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information relating to particular payments, or the account overall. Its important to point out 
that its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes  our role is to see if the 
bank has made any mistakes. And having reviewed the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied TSB have acted appropriately.
Im unable to share the full reasons of why TSB took the action they did with Mr Bs account. 
But Id like to reassure Mr B that based on the information and evidence Ive seen I think 
TSB took the necessary steps when reviewing Mr Bs account and subsequently deciding to 
end their banking relationship.
Mr B accepts that TSB were entitled to close the account in the way they did  but I still 
wanted to let Mr B know that having reviewed the full circumstances of this complaint, I 
agree their actions were reasonable.
When TSB reviewed Mr Bs account, they noticed Mr B had received multiple payments into 
his account, and so asked Mr B to prove his entitlement to the money. Mr B attended branch 
with various bank statements from the individuals who had transferred the money into Mr Bs 
account. I can appreciate why Mr B thought these bank statements would be enough to 
prove his entitlement  but TSB didnt agree. Ive thought carefully about their actions here. 
Its not the role of our service to tell a bank what they should or shouldnt accept as proof of 
entitlement  its for TSB to determine what will be acceptable. But having reviewed the 
information, and the testimony Mr B has provided to our service and the bank, I can see why 
TSB have made the decision they have. I appreciate Mr B providing his friends statements 
shows they transferred the money to him  but it doesnt confirm where the money originally 
came from. This is important, because if the money didnt rightfully belong to the people who 
transferred it to Mr B  then Mr B wouldnt be the rightful owner once theyd passed the 
money on to him. I recognise it would be difficult for Mr B to trace the full journey of the funds 
 but that doesnt mean its inappropriate or unfair for TSB to ask for further proof of 
entitlement. Ultimately, TSB need to be certain that Mr B is the rightful owner of the money  
at the moment, based on the evidence theyve received, they cant do that. So its 
reasonable theyre withholding the money from him.
Mr B has raised concerns that if TSB suspected fraud they should contact the police or other 
law enforcement agencies. While I appreciate Mr Bs comments, I dont think his point is 
entirely relevant. I say that because I havent seen any evidence to show that TSB have 
accused Mr B of fraud or added any external fraud markers to his file. Its also not for our 
service to comment on what actions a bank should take. Its my role to determine whether 
what they have done is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  And I 
think it is.
Ultimately, TSB carried out a review on Mr Bs account as theyre entitled to do  as part of 
that review, they asked Mr B for evidence that the money in the account rightfully belonged 
to him. Mr B provided evidence of that, but TSB didnt agree it was sufficient, so theyre 
withholding the money. Based on the full circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence 
Ive received, Im satisfied TSBs actions are fair. So it follows that I wont be asking TSB to 
do anything differently.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman