DRN-1341248
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited passed information about her, to a 
fraud prevention agency. The information is about a car finance loan application, which 
Miss D says, was started by someone else and not by her.
What happened
In July 2019 a car finance application was made to Oodle using Miss Ds personal details. 
During the application process, Oodle checked the salary figures with the employer named 
on the application. The employer said that the salary details were incorrect, and that Miss D 
no longer worked for them. 
After speaking with the person who applied for the loan, Oodle decided to decline the 
application. And because of some of the inaccuracies, Oodle passed information about the 
application to Cifas, who are a fraud prevention agency used by credit reference agencies in 
the UK. 
Nearly three months later, Miss D says an application she made for a mortgage was 
declined. She says she discovered that the information passed to Cifas, by Oodle was the 
reason. Miss D complained to Oodle and said someone else must have made the 
application without her knowledge and that shed been a victim of fraud. She also said her 
email account must have been hacked, for the fraudster to get access to her personal 
details.
Oodle investigated Miss Ds complaint and in their final response, said they didnt think the 
information was passed to Cifas incorrectly. They said they didnt think Miss D had been the 
victim of impersonation fraud and that she could contact Cifas and ask them to review the 
matter.
Miss D didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into her case and concluded that the person who spoke on the phone with Oodle, during the 
application, is probably the same person who made the complaint. The investigator noted 
the similarities with the voice recordings, and said similar documents were supplied by the 
person who made the application, and when Miss D complained to Oodle. So, the 
investigator found that Oodle hadnt made an error in passing information to Cifas. 
Miss D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said she didnt make the car 
finance application to Oodle. The investigator didnt change her findings and Miss Ds case 
has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to reassure Miss D that Ive thought very 
carefully about the difficult personal circumstances shes told us about. And, although my 
decision is likely to disappoint her, Id like her to know that I acknowledge how difficult it has 
been for her, since the time she brought her complaint to us.
The Cifas marker
In order to register a Cifas marker, theres a high standard of evidence needed. A business 
cannot simply add a Cifas marker based on a suspicion. Oodle needed to have rigorous 
evidence against Miss D, to justify their actions.
Oodle have explained that it loaded a Cifas marker because they didnt believe Miss Ds 
details were stolen, at the time application was made, to try get a car finance loan from 
them. In other words, they felt Miss D had applied for the loan or was aware of the 
application. So, Ive considered if Oodles actions were fair when they applied the marker, 
based on the evidence they had, the investigation they carried out and what the rules say 
about applying such markers.
As a member of Cifas, Oodle must consider four key statements in order to have a marker 
applied. Briefly, these statements are:
- there are reasonable grounds that fraud or financial crime has been committed or 
attempted;
- the evidence is clear, relevant and rigorous and that the matter can be confidently 
reported to the Police;
- the conduct fits with a reason outlined in Cifas definition of case types; and
- the account must have been rejected, withdrawn or terminated.
As part of their processes, Oodle sort to confirm the employment details submitted by the 
person who applied for the loan. They found that Miss D no longer worked for the employer 
listed on the application and that the salary details were incorrect. Oodle say that this led 
them to believe the information provided to them was false, and they tried to clarify things in 
a telephone call to the person who applied for the loan.
I think Oodle were right to be suspicious of the car finance application, because they had to 
be sure that the person they are proposing to lend money to, could afford to pay it back. And 
because there were significant differences in the salary and job title on the application form, 
to what the true details were. But, this suspicion alone, isnt enough to start the Cifas marker 
process. I think Oodle took the next logical step, by speaking to the person applying for the 
loan and talking to them about their job role and income. 
In the follow up call, Oodle say that they couldnt clarify the applicants employment or salary 
details. Based on this call, Oodle found that the applicant had provided false information 
about their salary and passed this information to Cifas, along with a request to apply a 
marker. Ive checked the reason Oodle used with Cifas and I think the marker is consistent 
with the reasons outlined in the Cifas definition of case types.
I think upon clarifying their suspicions, Oodle had gathered clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence to show a fraudulent attempt had been made to get a car finance loan. They also 
declined the loan application, based on their findings. So, I think Oodle were consistent with 
what the rules say about when its appropriate to place a marker with Cifas. I dont think 
Oodle passed information to Cifas purely based on a suspicion.
The phone callsOodle have made comparisons with the person they spoke to, about the employment details 
and when they spoke to Miss D about her complaint, in October 2019. I have listened to the 
call during the loan application and from when Miss D called Oodle to complain. On balance, 
Im persuaded that Oodle were correct to make these comparisons. 
I acknowledge that Miss D has told us its possible she was impersonated in the call about 
the employment details. But, I think Oodle reached a reasonable conclusion about the voice, 
tone and mannerisms in the calls, and the similarities with the information given in each 
discussion. It then follows, that I think it was reasonable for Oodle to find that Miss D was 
aware of the application that had been made in her name.
The details used in the application
Oodle have provided their internal records of the application which includes the telephone 
number used in their call to the applicant. The notes from Oodle also show the telephone 
number used when Miss D made her complaint. The two telephone numbers are the same, 
meaning the applicant used the correct contact details for Miss D.
On balance, I think its likely Oodle spoke to the applicant on the same telephone number 
Miss D uses. Im not persuaded a different telephone number was used. So, I think Oodle 
treated Miss D fairly when they concluded that she was aware of the application before and 
after they chose to decline the loan.
Some of the same information, such as Miss Ds driving licence details and her address at 
the time were also used by Oodle to show that Miss D was aware of the loan application. 
Miss D has also said her email account was hacked and could have been used by the 
applicant without her knowing. 
I agree that Miss D probably stopped accessing the email address used in the application, 
when she discovered the effects of the Cifas marker. And I can see that the applicant could 
have used any documents saved within that email account, such as the driving licence, 
without Miss Ds knowledge. I also agree that its likely Miss D contacted Action Fraud to 
report what had happened.
But, after taking into consideration all the evidence, I think its reasonable to place more 
weight on the content of the telephone calls Ive listened to. And that the same telephone 
number was used before and after the application. So, I think its likely Miss D was aware of 
the application made in her name.
I acknowledge that Miss D has experienced difficulties applying for credit elsewhere and that 
this has had an impact on her day to day life. Miss D still has the option to contact Cifas 
directly, to see if they can comment further on her concerns. 
But, our involvement here, is to see look into Miss Ds concerns about Oodle. Having 
considered everything, I dont think Oodle have treated Miss D unfairly or that they have 
made an error. In all the circumstances, I think Oodle treated Miss D fairly, when they 
investigated her complaint and chose not to remove the marker with Cifas, about the car 
finance application made in her name.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman