DRN-2870757
The complaint
Mr C complains that HFC Bank Limited did not pay compensation for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) directly to him. 
What happened
In or around 2014, Mr C complained to HFC that it mis-sold PPI to him alongside a loan he 
had taken out in 2003. 
HFC says it wrote to Mr C on 25 February 2014 to tell him his complaint had been upheld 
and that compensation was due. But in the reply form HFC asked Mr C to sign, it said it 
would use the compensation to reduce the outstanding balance on his loan. This is called 
offsetting. 
Mr C says he did not receive any response to his complaint at all until 2021. However, HFC 
says Mr C contacted it by telephone on 21 March 2014 and it told him the compensation 
would be offset. 
In any event, the reply form was not returned in 2014 and HFC took no further action in 
respect of the compensation at that time. 
Mr C says he was then contacted by HFC in January 2021 to inform him of a compensation 
payment due to be made to him. He provided documentation HFC had requested. But after 
contacting HFC again on 5 March 2021, he was told the compensation would be used to 
reduce an outstanding balance on his account. Mr C did not agree there was an outstanding 
balance on his loan account. He complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter. He said he thought there was evidence of an 
outstanding balance, and it was fair for HFC to offset the compensation from the outstanding 
amount. 
Mr C did not agree with what our adjudicator said. He said HFC had not contacted him at all 
about the arrears. He believed the screenshots provided by HFC showed he made a 
payment of £8,734.54 in July 2004 and that the loan was repaid in full.  
As Mr C did not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agree PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to look at the circumstances surrounding 
the sale of the PPI cover. In this decision, Im concerned with whether HFC fairly 
compensated Mr C for that mis-sale. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether there was an outstanding balance on Mr Cs loan 
account. As the parties disagree on this point, Ive made my decision by applying the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive looked at what the most likely position is based 
upon the evidence before me. 
From the electronic evidence provided to me, I can see that on 15 April 2003, Mr C took out 
a loan for £7,500. He borrowed a further £2,813.26 to pay for the PPI policy. By the time 
interest was added to the loan, he was due to pay back £20,838.72 to HFC by way of 84 
monthly instalments. Those instalments of £248.08 were due on the 4th day of each month. 
Again from the electronic evidence, it looks as though Mr C ran into difficulties paying the 
loan straightaway. Although he made some payments in 2003, a default was added to the 
account on 31 December 2003. 
Mr C says that HFCs screenshots show the loan was repaid in full because the balance was 
reduced to nil on 30 July 2004. Unfortunately, this screenshot does not show the loan had 
been repaid. What it does show is that the account was charged off. This is similar to what 
many people understand as the debt being written off. In other words, the debt still existed 
but HFC did not expect to be able to recover the money still owed to it. 
In summary, I cant reasonably say Mr C repaid the loan in full. Even though HFC wasnt 
actively pursuing Mr C for the outstanding loan, the evidence before me strongly suggests 
there was an outstanding balance on Mr Cs loan account.  
So, Ive next gone on to consider whether it was fair for HFC to use the PPI compensation to 
reduce Mr Cs outstanding balance. When a business accepts that a PPI policy was mis-
sold, I would expect it to put the consumer in the position he would be in now if the PPI 
hadnt been sold in the first place. 
In this case, HFC calculated that the total PPI compensation offer would have been 
£4,021.50. 
HFC calculated that at the point Mr C ran into difficulties with his repayments, there was still 
£3,565 left to pay for PPI.  Mr C hadnt actually paid that £3,565, so he wasnt out of pocket 
because of it. So I dont think it would be fair for me to tell HFC to give Mr C an amount he 
hadnt actually paid. 
HFC also calculated that Mr C had paid £270.69 in PPI premiums. And it worked out that 
simple interest in respect of that was £185.81. So effectively, Mr C was out of pocket by 
£465.50 because of the PPI. 
Ive given careful thought to whether it is fair for HFC to offset this amount against Mr Cs 
outstanding balance. Im satisfied that the PPI was sold alongside the same account that has 
the outstanding balance HFC is trying to offset. The debts are closely related. 
I note that the outstanding loan balance is considerably greater than £465.50. So effectively, 
HFC owes Mr C some money, but Mr C owes HFC somewhat more. In those circumstances, 
I dont think it would be fair for me to tell HFC to pay that £465.50 back to Mr C. Im satisfied 
it is fair for HFC to offset this amount from the outstanding loan balance. 
As I said, I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld 
the complaint. I can see HFC already offset the compensation from the outstanding loan 
balance. On that basis, I dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about HFC Bank Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman