DRN-3787633
The complaint
Mr W complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and a cash deposit he made in branch, as he 
believes branch staff deposited significantly less into his account than he gave them.
What happened
Mr W had held a current account with Lloyds for several years. On 1 July 2022, Mr W 
attended a local branch to deposit a significant amount of cash hed withdrawn from another 
account some years earlier.
Mr W says he gave the branch staff £67,500. But when he returned home, he received a call 
from the branch to say they had only counted £47,500. So, this is the amount that was 
credited into his account. Mr W was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W was unhappy that his account had been credited with significantly less than the 
amount he felt hed given the branch staff. And Mr W suggested if this additional amount 
couldve been found, then it was most likely stolen after hed left the branch. So, Mr W 
wanted Lloyds to credit the additional £20,000 to his account. Alongside this complaint, Mr 
W also reported the situation to the police.
Lloyds responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their branch staff had 
followed the proper procedures by not counting the cash at the counter in front of Mr W and 
instead counting it in a secure area. And Lloyds were satisfied from the testimony of the 
staff, and through managerial investigations, that Mr W had only given the staff £47,500 and 
so, his account had been credited correctly. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Lloyds also explained that any CCTV footage of the secure area would 
only be provided to the police and that they would comply with this request if received by 
them. But, they also explained CCTV footage isnt stored indefinitely. Mr W remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied Lloyds 
had completed a full investigation in an attempt to locate the disputed amount. And they 
didnt think there was evidence to suggest Lloyds had done anything wrong when processing 
the cash, or crediting Mr M the amount of £47,500. So, while they recognise Mr Ws 
testimony differed somewhat with the testimony of branch staff, they didnt think they could 
say Lloyds needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt think the stamped receipt hed provided had been taken into 
consideration. And he made several comments about the branchs reputation, as well as the 
branchs version of events and why he feels they were wrong. As Mr W didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I dont dispute Mr Ws 
testimony or his belief that he gave the Lloyds branch £67,500 to credit into his account. So, 
I can understand Mr Ws shock and upset when he was made aware only £47,500 had been 
credited as Mr W believed strongly that the cash amount he gave to Lloyds was more than 
this. And as Mr W believes he gave the branch staff £67,500, I can understand why Mr W 
would then assume the missing £20,000 was mis-placed, or potentially taken, by those staff. 
And I understand why Mr W believes Lloyds should pay this amount into his account, to 
recognise the financial loss he feels hes incurred.
But for me to say Lloyds should pay Mr W the £20,000 he feels he is owed; I first need to be 
satisfied Lloyds have done something wrong. So, in this situation, Id need to see evidence 
that satisfied me on the balance of probabilities that its more likely than not that Mr W did 
give Lloyds £67,500 cash to credit into his account. And, crucially, that Lloyds made an error 
when processing this request, that resulted in Mr W receiving less than he shouldve. And 
unfortunately, in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how. Our service is unable to consider, or 
comment upon, any allegations of criminal activity. For example, in this situation whether or 
not the £20,000 has been stolen purposefully by Lloyds. The investigation of this would fall 
under the remit of the police, and I recognise Mr W has pursued this with the police directly.
Instead, its my role to decide whether I think Lloyds have acted both fairly and reasonably. 
And in a situation such as this, where Mr W and Lloyds have differing testimonies and 
versions of events, I must consider these alongside any evidence available to me to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened. This is because I cannot say for certain exactly 
what did happen, as I wasnt present at the time of the transaction and the counting of the 
cash.
In this situation, I recognise Mr W feels strongly that he gave the branch staff £67,500 to 
credit into his account. And hes given a detailed account of how this cash was stored in 
separate packages which he believes supports his testimony, alongside the stamped receipt 
hes provided.
Whereas Lloyds testimony, from their branch staff, disputes this. And Lloyds have provided 
a detailed description of the investigations they undertook to locate the disputed amount, 
which found that the amount credited to Mr Ws account was correct.
I think Lloyds acted fairly when counting the cash after Mr W had left the branch, as their 
internal process states that a deposit of this amount needed to be counted in a secure place, 
rather than at the front counter in front of other customers. And I think this process is a 
reasonable one that seems sensible. While I appreciate Mr W has said he was the only 
customer in store, the branch staff had no way of knowing whether another customer may 
enter during the counting process.
And while I recognise the counting was done after Mr W had left the branch, I think it was Mr 
Ws own decision to leave before the counting had been completed. Again, I do recognise 
Mr W had caring commitments which means he needed to return home, but I dont think this 
is the responsibility of Lloyds nor do I think this means Lloyds actions were unfair.The branch staffs testimony confirms the cash was counted in line with Lloyds internal 
process, with witnesses to ensure the security of the funds. And its been confirmed as soon 
as this was done, and the cash amount was for less than Mr W declared, Lloyds called Mr W 
to explain this. This is what I wouldve expected Lloyds to do and so, I think they acted fairly 
here.
On this call, Mr W disputed the amount that had been counted. And Lloyds have confirmed 
following this, both the branch manager and an independent manager from another branch 
completed investigations to locate any misplaced funds and the process the branch staff 
carried out. And from this, they could find no wrongdoing. Had the funds been misplaced, or 
had something more sinister occurred, I think its most likely that it wouldve been discovered 
at this point. And I cant see that it was.
So, without any further evidence such as CCTV footage, I dont think I have seen enough 
evidence to show me that Lloyds made an error when counting Mr Ws cash. Or, that Mr Ws 
account was credited with less than the cash amount he provided when he went into branch. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say Lloyds acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to 
do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr W does have a 
handwritten receipt, which he thinks should be evidence of the amount he gave to branch 
staff. But crucially, this receipt only depicts the cash amount Mr W declared to branch staff 
verbally. The receipt clearly explains the cash would then be counted, so I dont think this 
receipt is enough to say Mr W definitively gave Lloyds more cash than they counted and 
credited to his account.
I also recognise Mr W is unhappy about the lack of CCTV evidence. But as this CCTV 
footage was of a secure area, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to release this to a customer. Nor do I 
think they acted unfairly when not doing so. I can see they confirmed they would release this 
to the police if requested. And I can see the police themselves have confirmed their 
investigation was delayed, meaning the CCTV footage was no longer available when they 
requested it. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to keep CCTV footage for an indefinite period of time 
and as the police themselves have accepted they delayed the investigation; I dont think its 
Lloyds fault the CCTV footage can no longer be produced.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman