DRN-2811514
The complaint
Miss M complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt unfairly with a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M leased a car from a leasing company. The car was insured through the leasing 
company with RSA. Miss M had an accident in October 2018 in which the front of her car 
was damaged on the drivers side. She claimed on the motor insurance policy. RSA 
accepted the claim and paid for the remedial work. This included the replacement of the off-
side (drivers side) drive shaft at the front of the car.
Miss M says there were fundamental problems with the car from the start. Shes told us that 
the damage caused to the car by the accident was minor and cosmetic. She says that the 
drive shaft had failed on both sides of the car, and she believes this was due to a 
manufacturing defect. Shed reported some months before the accident that the car was 
making an unusual noise when she turned the steering wheel. The manufacturer wasnt able 
to diagnose the problem at the time. But she says that after she had the accident, the 
manufacturer refused to look at the car further until the damage from the collision had been 
repaired. 
Miss M believes that the problems with to the off-side drive shaft should have been fixed 
under warranty. She says she made it clear that she didnt want to claim on the insurance. 
And she says she only did so on the understanding that the claim would be removed from 
her insurance record once it was established that both sides of the drive shaft had needed to 
be repaired and that the damage was nothing to do with the collision.
RSA has told us that the repairer had originally been planning to get the drive shaft looked at 
under warranty. But once Miss M had the accident in October 2018, the manufacturer 
declined to cover the replacement of the drive shaft under warranty. So it was replaced as 
part of Miss Ms claim.
In early 2019, after the damage caused by the collision had been repaired, the manufacturer 
agreed to repair the drive shaft on the other (passenger) side of the car under warranty. 
Miss M says the she was told the car would be safe to drive pending the repair, but she 
narrowly avoided a serious accident when another component failed.
Miss M had already made a claim on the policy a couple of months before the accident, and 
shes concerned that having the two claims on her insurance record will make it harder and 
more expensive for her to get motor insurance in the future. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M considers that the fact that the near-side drive shaft was replaced under warranty a 
few months after the collision supports her view that there was a manufacturing defect with 
the drive shafts. Shes also provided a report from a breakdown recovery company, 
prepared shortly after the accident, which notes a defect in the near-side drive shaft. But it 
isnt my role to decide what actually caused the problems with the drive shafts on Miss Ms 
car. My role is to decide whether RSA dealt fairly and reasonably with Miss M.
It seems to me that there were three potential routes to getting the drive shaft repaired or 
replaced after the accident. 
One potential option would have been to have the work carried out under warranty. This is 
what Miss M would have liked. Shes told us that if this had happened, shed have paid for 
the remaining repairs herself. So no insurance claim would have been necessary. 
But after Miss M had the accident, the manufacturer said it wasnt willing to repair the off-
side drive shaft under warranty. And it was only willing to consider any other issues with the 
car after the accident damage had been repaired. I dont find that RSA can be held 
responsible for the manufacturers decision not to cover the work under warranty. And the 
view of both RSAs approved repairer and its own senior engineer was also that the only 
damage to the off-side drive shaft was caused by the accident. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of RSA not to push the manufacturer to repair the car under warranty. The 
manufacturer had made its position clear, and that was out of RSAs hands.
The remaining options were for the work to be carried out under Miss Ms motor insurance, 
or for Miss M to pay for the work herself. 
Miss M had had a history of problems with the car, and was of the firm belief that the 
problem with the drive shaft was caused by a manufacturing defect, and that this would 
ultimately be accepted by the manufacturer. She discussed her concerns with the leasing 
company, who contacted RSA.
RSA told the leasing company that if it could recover the full cost of the repairs from the 
dealer, the claim would be removed from Miss Ms record. But Im satisfied, having read both 
RSA and the leasing companys notes, that RSA explained clearly that it was unlikely that 
this would happen, as Miss M had had an accident. And the leasing company passed on 
what RSA had said to Miss M.
Its apparent from the leasing companys notes, that Miss M considered the possibility of 
paying for the work herself, but decided to go ahead and make the insurance claim. I dont 
doubt that she did so in the belief that the manufacturer would eventually accept that the 
work was covered by warranty. But RSA had explained quite clearly that that was unlikely to 
be the case. And I dont find that it can be held responsible for any false hope on Miss Ms 
part that the claim would end up being removed from her record. 
I dont find that RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with Miss Ms claim. Nor do 
I find that it can be held responsible if Miss M was told that the car was safe to drive pending 
further work. So I cant fairly uphold her complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman