DRN-1671820
The complaint
Mr P has complained he was led to believe by a Facebook advertisement put out by UK 
Protected Limited (trading as Freedom to Insure) that he could purchase an Apple watch 
series 5 for £99 if he applied for a life assurance policy through Freedom to Insure.
When he completed a policy application over the telephone, he asked about the promotion 
and was told that it came with terms and conditions that required him to take out only with a 
certain provider a healthcare policy for a minimum premium of £35.00 or a life insurance 
policy. 
Mr P says the advertisement was misleading in that it simply stated he could purchase an 
Apple watch series 5 for £99 with any life assurance policy. He cancelled the policy he 
provisionally accepted because it didnt entitle him to buy the Apple watch at that price.
What happened? 
Mr P responded to a Facebook advertisement published by Freedom to Insure as a lead 
generation campaign for products offered by a certain life assurance and healthcare policy 
provider.
The promotions headline set out the offer of an:
Apple Watch
Series 5 from
£99 with Life
Insurance Policy
Get Active, Get Rewarded with the right
Life Insurance policy.
Terms and Conditions apply.
Fill out your details below to find out
more today.
The terms and conditions, among other things, explained that the watch retailed at £399 and 
Mr P would be required to take out a credit agreement under which he paid between £0 and 
£12.50 per month over 24 months (depending on his level of activity during the month). As such, he could obtain the watch for as little as £99, providing he took out a healthcare policy 
with the named provider as well.
Alternatively, if he took out a life insurance policy with that same provider, he could obtain 
the watch for £159 upfront, plus 24 monthly payments of between £0 and £10.00 (again, 
depending on his level of activity during the month).
Mr P responded to the advertisement by contacting Freedom to Insure to request a joint 
policy providing life cover for him and his wife. Freedom to Insure explained that it didnt offer 
advice; it could find the best value life insurance from the range of policy providers it dealt 
with (which included the provider promoting the watch). At the monthly premium Mr P was 
willing to pay of £40.00, Freedom to Insure found that the three insurers offering the best 
deal didnt include the provider that promoted the watch.
When Mr P enquired about the watch promotion, Freedom to Insure explained that the cost 
of a life insurance policy with the provider promoting the watch would have been 
considerably more expensive.   
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt think it could be 
upheld.
Briefly, she concluded that, while Mr P had read the headline offer, he didnt appear to have 
read the terms and conditions attached to the promotion. These required him to take out 
either a healthcare policy or a life insurance policy with a specific provider to obtain the 
watch for £99 or £159 upfront respectively, plus a regular monthly payment over 24 months 
depending on the number of activity reward points Mr P earned each month.
Also, she noted from the telephone conversations between Mr P and Freedom of Insure that 
the cost of the watch and the monthly premium to a life insurance policy provided by this 
insurer would still be more expensive than if he bought the watch separately.
The investigator didnt agree with Mr P that the promotion enabled him to purchase the 
watch for £99 with any life insurance policy he applied for through Freedom to Insure. The 
terms and conditions of the offer didnt state that. 
But, if he still believes the advertisement was misleading, she invited him to contact the 
Financial Conduct Authority, which regulated advertising material issued by the financial 
service industry.
In response, Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and said that the advertisement 
headed with the name of Freedom to Insure simply stated that, if he bought a life insurance 
policy, he could obtain an Apple watch series 5 for £99. There was no mention of the watch 
costing £159 if he bought a life insurance policy or additional monthly payments in the 
headline offer. 
Besides, in his telephone conversations with Freedom to Insure, it didnt seem to know about 
the advertisement. And, having promised to investigate how Mr P could obtain the Apple 
watch, it never returned his call.
As no agreement has been reached over Mr Ps complaint, it has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the telephone 
conversation between Mr P and Freedom to Insure and the Facebook advertisement to 
which he responded, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I appreciate that, if Mr P only read the advertisements headline, he could have believed that 
this offer was being made by Freedom to Insure and that an Apple watch was available to 
purchase for £99 if he applied for a life insurance policy. 
But, even the headline offer states that the watch was available from £99 and with the right 
life insurance policy. Also, Mr P was expected to read the terms and conditions that applied 
by clicking on the Learn More button, which stated that:
the cost of the Apple watch series 5 started at £399;
the watch was available if Mr P took out with the named provider (not any provider) a 
healthcare policy with a minimum monthly premium of £35.00 or a life insurance 
policy for an upfront payment of £99 or £159 respectively;
thereafter, he would pay 24 monthly payments of between £0 and £12.50 or between 
£0 and £10.00 depending on the number of activity reward points he earned each 
month. In this way, the watch would cost him between £99 or £159 and £399.
So, Mr P would have learned from the terms and conditions that he could purchase the 
watch for as little as £99, but only if he took out a healthcare policy with this provider for at 
least £35.00 per month and earned a minimum number of activity reward points. 
But, Mr P didnt want healthcare insurance - his intention was to take out life insurance - and 
the terms and conditions of the promotion told him that he would need to pay £159 upfront 
for the watch, plus £0 to £10.00 per month, plus the cost of the policy through the named 
insurer.
Once Mr P completed the quotation request from the advertisement, Freedom to Insure 
contacted him to establish his precise need for life cover. It would have assumed Mr P had 
read the terms and conditions of the promotion beforehand. And, as Mr P didnt mention the 
watch offer until the end of the telephone conversation, Freedom to Insure quoted from three 
insurers which offered the most life cover for the monthly premium he wanted to pay, none of 
which was the insurer Mr P needed to choose to qualify for the special offer.
And, when Mr P mentioned the watch promotion at the end of the telephone call, the 
representative explained that a life insurance policy with the insurer quoted in the offer was 
so uncompetitive that the cost of life cover and the watch would have been prohibitively 
expensive that it couldnt recommend him to consider this policy.
It does seem the representative wasnt familiar with the nature of the promotion and doesnt 
appear to have returned Mr Ps call, as promised, to explain how he might obtain the watch. 
But it ought to have been evident to Mr P from the terms and conditions in the advertisement 
itself that he could have applied for life cover, and taken up the offer of the watch, direct with 
the insurer.
It does seem that Mr P has assumed from the headline offer in the advertisement that the 
Apple watch was available to buy at £99 on taking out life cover through Freedom to Insure 
with any insurer. Even the advertisement itself didnt state that. The cost of the watch started 
at £99 and was available at that price only if Mr P purchased the right life insurance policy 
set out in the terms and conditions Those terms and conditions, which he was invited to read 
before applying to Freedom to Insure for life cover, confirmed the insurer which needed to provide the policy and that the cost of the watch was discounted back from £399 to £159 if 
Mr P gained a minimum number of activity points each month for 24 months.   
Freedom to Insure couldnt recommend Mr P to consider taking out life cover through this 
insurer because it didn't offer cover at a competitive price. But Mr P could apply direct to this 
insurer for life cover under the offer it promoted through Freedom to Insure.
Mr P cancelled the policy recommended by Freedom to Insure. As such, while he may have 
suffered a loss of expectation that he could obtain the watch at a discounted price, he hasnt 
suffered any material loss for which he can expect to be compensated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman