DRN-3814914
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2020, Mr Os friend referred him to an investment company Ill refer to as P. The 
friend told him P would help him to invest in cryptocurrency and showed him evidence of his 
investment, explaining hed been investing for six months. He sent Mr O a referral link which 
he followed before opening a trading account with P, which required him to carry out ID 
verification checks and to create a username and password. He was then contacted by a 
broker claiming to work for P who instructed him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet.
Mr O began by investing using his friends wallet, followed by payments into his own 
cryptocurrency wallet once he was satisfied he could withdraw his funds. Between 3 
November 2020 and 14 May 2020, he made 58 payments to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company Ill refer to as C and a payment platform Ill refer to as L totalling £73,382 via 
online transfer from his Barclays account. 
On 18 January 2021, Mr O successfully made a withdrawal of £4,450, but in October 2021, 
he was denied access to his trading account and Ps website was no longer accessible, at 
which point he realised hed been scammed.
Mr O complained to Barclays stating it should refund the money hed lost because it had only 
contacted him once during the scam period. Barclays said it had rewarded him £200 for the 
delays in resolving his complaint, but it refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It said 
he had sent funds to his own cryptocurrency account, and from there, the money was sent to 
the scammers wallet, so he would have to complain to the cryptocurrency merchant he paid. 
It also said the payments werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code because they were sent to an account in Mr Os name.
It also said that between 22 September 2021 and 19 January 2022, Mr O had received 
payments from both C and L totalling £48,931.80. He continued to pay money to both 
companies after he reported the scam and he received withdrawals into his account as 
recently as 4 March 2022, so it didnt accept the investment was a scam.
Mr O complained to this service. He said hed made 58 high value payments to a new payee 
linked to cryptocurrency, which was unusual activity, yet Barclays only contacted him once. 
During the call on 8 December 2020, it said it wanted to ensure the payment was genuine 
and warned him the investment might be a scam. 
He said he received standard pop-up messages in respect of the other payments and if 
Barclays had contacted him and asked probing questions, it would have been obvious he 
was falling victim to a scam, and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
Mr Os representative argued that Barclays didnt do enough to establish Mr O was the 
victim of a scam and if it had asked more probing questions, he wouldnt have proceeded 
with the payments. They said that before the scam payment most payments on the account 
were under £1,000, so the sudden change to high value payments should have raised 
concerns. 
Barclays reiterated that it didnt accept the investment was a scam because Mr O had 
received withdrawals from L and C totalling £48,931.80, which was an unusually large 
number of withdrawals to receive from a scam. And Mr O realised hed been scammed in 
October 2021 but continued to make payments to both companies and he received 
withdrawals into his account as recently 4 March 2022.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted there were occasions 
when Mr O had made multiple payments in one day, but he didnt think they would have 
seemed suspicious because hed already paid the payee and the amounts werent large 
enough to raise concerns, so he didnt think Barclays needed to intervene sooner than it did.
He explained there were three calls, one on 8 December 2020 and two on 17 January 2021. 
In each call, Mr O was asked why he was making the payments, why he was purchasing 
cryptocurrency and whether hed been approached to make the transactions. He was also 
asked if hed completed his own research and whether hed checked the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) register. Across the three calls, Mr O said he was paying his own account, 
he wasnt being told to make the investments, hed started investing on the advice of a close 
friend who he trusted, and hed done his own independent research. He also said hed been 
investing successfully for about four months.
Our investigator was satisfied that while the warning Mr O was given on 8 December 2020 
could have been more specific, he was given an investment scam warning and asked to 
complete relevant research. He noted he was very confident the investment was genuine as 
it was recommended by a close friend and even though the scam was reported in November 
2021, Mr O continued making payments beyond that date. So, he didnt think Barclays could 
have said anything to prevent the scam.
Our investigator was satisfied Barclays decision to approve the payments was reasonable 
considering the answers Mr O gave and the fact hed received several high value 
withdrawals. He also noted Mr O was warned about scams involving cryptocurrency, which 
he was satisfied was enough to put him on notice of the risk.
Mr O has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. His representative has 
said the intervention was basic and the scam warning wasnt sufficient to protect him. They 
have said Barclays should have asked probing questions and provided an effective and 
tailored scam warning and that the first intervention should have happened sooner. And 
while the payments were lower in value, he was making payments in quick succession, 
including several payments in one day, which should have raised concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr O has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr O says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were to an account in Mr Os own name, and Im satisfied thats 
fair.
Im satisfied Mr O authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and even though Mr O did receive significant 
withdrawals, there is a lot of information available online suggesting P was operating a 
scam. But, although he didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the 
disputed payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Barclays had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr O when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Barclays to intervene with a view to protecting Mr O from financial harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments which pre-dated the intervention on 8 December 
2020 in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr O normally 
ran his account and I agree with our investigator that the two payments on 9 November 2021 
were low value so there was no reason for Barclays to intervene. There were two further 
payments on 2 December 2020 but the cumulative total was only £2,520, so again, I dont 
think Barclays needed to intervene.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 8 December 2020. During the call Mr O said he 
was buying cryptocurrency and had been investing for around four months. He was given a 
scam warning and he said he didnt need the payment to be processed because hed made 
other arrangements. Barclays intervened again on 17 December 2020 and during the calls, 
Mr O was warned about scams involving the cryptocurrency exchange and advised to research the company. He told the call handler the investment had been recommended by a 
close friend and that hed researched P himself. The payment was then released. 
Ive thought about what took place during the calls and Im satisfied Mr O was given a 
relevant scam warning and that he was told to research the investment. I think the call 
handlers on both occasions might reasonably have asked more questions, but I dont think it 
would have made any difference because Mr O was convinced the investment was genuine 
and that hed done proper checks. The investment was recommended by a good friend who 
he believed had made good profits and he had himself received withdrawals totalling 
£48,931.80. He was also reassured by the fact P had required ID to open an account, he 
was able to raise queries via a live-chat and he was able to see his trades on his trading 
account.
I think Mr O would have been open in his responses to questions, but I dont think there were 
enough red flags for Barclays to have identified this as a scam and so I dont think there was 
anything it could have said in addition to what was said during the calls that took place when 
it did intervene that would have prevented him from going ahead with the payments. 
So, while I think Barclays should have intervened sooner and that it could have done more 
on the occasions it did intervene, I dont think this represented a missed opportunity to 
prevent Mr Os loss.
Recovery
I dont think there was a realistic prospect of a successful recovery because Mr O paid an 
account in his own name and moved the funds onwards from there.
Compensation
Mr O was awarded £200 compensation for delays investigating the complaint and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Im sorry to hear Mr O has lost money and the effect this has had on him, but for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman