DRN-3301618
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly when he 
applied for two credit cards.
Mr Ls complaint has been brought by a representative.
What happened
Mr L was an existing customer of NatWest, and held two current accounts with them, one of 
which he used as his main current account. 
On 23 May 2019 Mr L applied for two credit cards with NatWest. The credit cards each had a 
credit limit of £1,200. On the applications Mr L said he was employed and earning £24,000 a 
year. He said his living costs were £589 per month.
NatWest said Mr Ls applications passed credit scoring and their checks for debt problems. 
They said they carried out an affordability assessment which showed Mr L could afford the 
repayments, based on typical living costs and repayments of existing debt. So they approved 
Mr Ls applications.
Mr L used both cards up to the credit limit within the first month. He didnt make any 
payments to his credit card accounts and in December 2019 both the credit card accounts 
defaulted.
In September 2019 Mr Ls representative wrote to NatWest. They explained Mr L had been 
experiencing a mental health episode when hed applied for the credit cards, which led to 
him being admitted to hospital in June 2019. They said he didnt remember applying for the 
credit cards, and asked NatWest to consider writing off the money he owed because hed 
lacked capacity to enter into the agreements.
NatWest replied to say, in summary, that Mr L had told them he was employed when he 
applied for the credit cards, and hed passed the appropriate checks and demonstrated 
affordability. They explained Mr Ls applications werent checked against his current account 
because it wasnt their process to do so. They refunded the interest and charges theyd 
applied to both the credit card accounts, and referred Mr L to their specialist team to discuss 
repaying the outstanding balance.
Mr Ls representative replied to say, in summary, that Mr L wasnt employed at the time he 
applied for the credit cards, and his current account showed he was receiving universal 
credit at the time. They explained Mr L had been very unwell at the time he applied for the 
credit cards, and they felt their request for the outstanding balances to be written off had not 
been properly considered. They brought Mr Ls complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint. She thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part, because she didnt think NatWest had done enough to check Mr L could afford the 
credit card repayments. She said that NatWest should have looked at how Mr L had been 
operating his current account shortly before he applied for the credit cards, and if theyd 
done so they would have noticed he was struggling with his finances. She asked NatWest to 
refund all the interest and charges, remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file, 
and arrange an appropriate repayment plan with him. She didnt think the outstanding 
balances on Mr Ls credit card accounts should be written off in full or in part, because Mr L 
had had the benefit of the funds hed borrowed.
NatWest didnt reply to the investigators view. 
Mr Ls representative replied to say, in summary, that Mr L would agree to repay some of the 
money at a reasonable rate, but due to the stress and hardship hed experienced because of 
NatWests decision to lend to him, he thought NatWest should write off all or some of the 
outstanding balance on the credit card accounts.
Mr Ls complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint. However, although Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr L, Im not going ask NatWest to write off the outstanding balance on the credit 
card accounts. 
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
In order to decide if NatWest treated Mr L fairly when agreeing to lend to him, Ive thought 
about the following questions:
Did NatWest complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr L would be able to repay the full amount of credit in a sustainable way? 
If so, did NatWest make a fair lending decision taking into account the information 
gathered and what they knew about Mr Ls circumstances?
If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown it was more likely than 
not that Mr L wouldnt be able to repay the full amount in a sustainable way?
Did NatWest act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way in making the decision to 
lend to Mr L?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect NatWest 
to have considered the amount, duration and payments of the credit being applied for, as 
well as Mr Ls personal circumstances at the time of his application, and any indications of 
vulnerability.
With this in mind, Ive thought about whether NatWest completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr L would be able to repay his credit cards 
in a sustainable way. And overall, I dont think they did. Ill explain why.
I think there were indications here that Mr L may have difficulty repaying the borrowing hed 
applied for, which should have prompted NatWest to look into his financial situation further 
than they did at the time they agreed to lend. This wouldnt have been difficult, because Mr L held two current accounts with them  one of which he operated as his main current 
account. So there was more information readily available to NatWest about Mr Ls overall 
financial position.
Mr Ls credit card applications said he was employed and earning around £1,600 per month. 
Mr Ls representative said he was on universal credit at the time. I can see that Mr Ls 
universal credit income of around £230 per month was being paid into his main current 
account with NatWest. And it doesnt look like a regular income was being paid into his other 
current account. So it appears Mr Ls income at the time was significantly less than he 
declared on his credit card applications  and this was information that NatWest could have 
easily checked at the time.
I can also see that between 7 May and 16 May Mr L made a number of applications to 
increase his overdraft limits on his current accounts. The overdraft limit on his main current 
account was increased to £350 on 10 May 2019, and was used nearly up to its limit by 14 
May. Mr L applied to increase the overdraft limit on his other account to £500 on 7 May 2019 
and to £750 on 10 May 2019. 
Mr Ls income was significantly less than hed declared on his credit card applications, and 
the recent applications to increase his overdraft limit could have been an indication that he 
had started to experience difficulties managing his current accounts within the limits. I think it 
would have been reasonable for NatWest to have carried out further checks and if theyd 
done so, they would have known the information Mr L had given them about his financial 
circumstances didnt add up, because Mr L wasnt receiving the income hed declared on the 
application forms. 
Mr L said his monthly living costs were around £589. So his living costs exceeded his 
universal credit income by around £350 per month. I think this indicated Mr L may have 
difficulties paying back the lending in a sustainable way. And if NatWest had carried out 
further checks, I dont think they would have approved Mr Ls credit card applications. So I 
think its fair that they should take steps to put this right. 
NatWest should also have considered if there were any indications of Mr Ls vulnerability at 
the time he made the applications, and if so they should have carried out additional checks 
before agreeing to lend to him. So Ive looked into whether NatWest treated Mr L fairly here.
Mr Ls representative has provided medical evidence to explain Mr Ls mental health 
condition led him to make decisions about money which were uncharacteristic. The medical 
evidence mentions that when Mr L was acutely unwell he may have lacked capacity around 
his finances. So I think its reasonable to say Mr L was vulnerable at the time he made the 
credit card applications. But I havent seen anything to show NatWest were, or should have 
been aware, of Mr Ls vulnerability at the time he applied for the credit cards. So I dont think 
they should have carried out any additional checks around whether Mr L had capacity to 
enter into the agreements at the time he applied for the credit cards.
Mr Ls representative has asked us to consider whether Mr Ls debt should be written off. 
Ive thought very carefully about this point. I do understand that Mr L was vulnerable at the 
time he took out the credit cards, and it was out of character for him to do so. But I dont 
think NatWest could have been aware of this at the time  and Mr L has had the benefit of 
the money he borrowed. So although Im sympathetic to Mr Ls situation here, I dont think it 
would be appropriate to ask NatWest to write off any of the outstanding balance on his credit 
card accounts.Putting things right
I understand that National Westminster Bank Plc has already re-worked Mr Ls credit card 
balances so that all interest and charges applied to the credit card accounts from account 
opening have been removed. For the avoidance of doubt, it should ensure that no further 
interest and charges are applied to the accounts.
National Westminster Bank Plc should also do the following:
remove any adverse information relating to Mr Ls credit card accounts from his credit 
file; and
work with Mr L to agree a sustainable repayment plan, bearing in mind their obligation to 
treat him positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ls complaint, for the reasons Ive explained. 
National Westminster Bank Plc must put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman