DRN-2075754
The complaint
Mr C complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has unfairly declined the claim made on his 
marine insurance policy.
Im aware that Mr C has been represented by a third party throughout the complaint but for 
ease of reading I will refer only to Mr C in this decision. For the same reason, any reference 
to Lloyds also includes its agents.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr Cs boat was damaged whilst out on the river and he made a claim. Lloyds 
turned down the claim because, at the time of the incident, it said his boat should have been 
laid up in a boat yard. Lloyds said when Mr C took out the policy he had included a period of 
approximately seven months when the boat would be stored and, as the incident occurred 
during this period, the claim wouldnt be paid.
Mr C said that when hed called to renew his insurance several months earlier, he had asked 
for the same cover as the year before, and this didnt include any laid up period. So he thinks 
this is what he should have been given. However, Lloyds said that the quote was changed 
online by Mr C before he accepted the cover, and one of those changes was adding in dates 
when the boat would be stored. 
Mr C said he changed the dates in error and Lloyds should have checked this with him. As a 
result, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
didnt find that Lloyds had acted unfairly. She said that it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim. She also found that Mr C had received a summary of cover and an 
insurance certificate that both detailed these dates  so Mr C had the opportunity to review 
the cover he had purchased. She said it wasnt Lloyds responsibility to check the 
amendments he had made online.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for 
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my 
role in it.
The insurance Mr C purchased includes the following condition; 
If the Certificate states that the Vessel is to be laid up for part or whole of the Period 
of Insurance we will not insure you or the Vessel if the Vessel is not safely laid up 
during that period, is out of commission and in the place and type of berth as stated 
by you
Having checked the documentation supplied I can see that the certificate of insurance and 
the summary of cover both show that a lay up period of seven months had been declared to 
the insurers. Based on this policy term, any claim for damage to the boat whilst out on the 
water during that period wouldnt be covered. As the incident causing the claim occurred 
during the time the boat had been declared as laid up, Lloyds declined the claim.
Lloyds has told us the lay up dates were not on the quote sent but were entered online by 
Mr C before he accepted the quote. It also said he made several other changes to the cover 
at this time. But Mr C says these dates were entered unintentionally by him and Lloyds 
should have checked this. Whilst I appreciate Mr C says this was a mistake, I dont agree 
that it was Lloyds responsibility to check if he meant to make these changes. Mr C was 
provided with a summary of cover prior to completing the application online - so he had the 
opportunity to check the details that he had amended before purchasing the cover. And the 
certificate of insurance that was issued after the policy was taken out also confirmed these 
dates. 
In addition, Ive seen that the first page of the insurance policy booklet that was issued 
includes the following message;
Upon receipt of your insurance policy, may we remind you to always check all the 
details very carefully especially:
a) Your in commission and lay up periods:
We believe the in commission and laid up dates that you have requested have been 
correctly stated by us on your Policy Certificate. If they are different from those stated 
and agreed during the initial quotation stage and you want to change them please let 
us know immediately and if your request is acceptable to us, we will advise you of 
any additional premium due or any other change in terms and amend your Policy 
Certificate.
Taking all of this into account I think Lloyds took all reasonable steps to ensure Mr C was 
provided with enough information about the policy he was purchasing to ensure he had the 
right level of cover. And there were several opportunities for Mr C to have reviewed the 
details of the insurance he was taking out - at the time of purchase and after. So, I dont 
think that Lloyds has acted unfairly by accepting cover based on the updated information 
provided to it by Mr C and Im satisfied that it has fairly refused the claim in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman