DRN-3174430
The complaint
Ms C complains that the interest rate on a loan provided by Oakbrook Finance Limited 
trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) was incorrect.
What happened
Ms C was given two loans by Oakbrook. She borrowed £1,500 in January 2020 that she 
agreed to repay over 24 months. Then, in May 2021, she refinanced her loan and took some 
further borrowing. At that time her new loan totalled £1,924 and as before Ms C agreed to 
repay it over 24 months. Ms Cs complaint relates to the interest rate that was charged on 
the second loan.
Ms Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
documentation Ms C had been sent before the start of the loan had clearly set out the 
interest rate shed be charged. And he noted that Ms C had also been given a two week 
cooling off period during which she could have cancelled the loan if she was unhappy with 
its terms. So he didnt think Oakbrook had misled Ms C about the interest rate she would 
need to pay. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms C and by Oakbrook. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Ms C applied for her loans online. As part of that application process she would have 
needed to electronically sign a loan agreement. I can see that Ms C signed the agreement 
for the second loan on 24 May 2021. A copy of that agreement, bearing Ms Cs electronic 
signature, was sent to her home address by post the same day. The address used for that 
letter matches the address we hold in relation to this complaint.
The credit agreement that Ms C signed, and was subsequently sent to her, clearly set out 
the main features of the loan. It told her the amount she had borrowed, and how much she 
would need to repay  both in total and each month. And it set out the interest rate that was 
applicable to the loan. That rate was shown as being 89.9% - and was the same interest rate 
that Ms C had been charged on her first loan that she was now refinancing. So I think the 
credit agreement that was sent to Ms C was sufficient to confirm the interest rate she was 
paying.
I think it likely that Ms C would have been made aware of the interest rate as part of her loan 
application. But I havent received information from Oakbrook to show me how that interest 
rate was presented to Ms C. So I have to consider the possibility that she wasnt aware of 
the interest rate until after her loan had been agreed. 
As I said earlier, the interest rate Ms C was being charged was the same as the rate she 
was already paying on her first loan. And I am satisfied it is probable that she received a 
copy of the loan agreement for the second loan shortly after it had been agreed. So, at the 
very latest, Ms C would have been aware of the interest rate at that point.
The information that Ms C was sent about the loan clearly set out that she could withdraw 
from the agreement within 14 days. And she then had a further 30 days to repay her 
borrowing. So Im satisfied that Ms C could have ended the credit agreement if she had been 
initially unaware of the interest rate, and later found the rate to be unacceptable.
On balance I think it most likely that Ms C was made sufficiently aware of the interest rate 
applicable to the loan and decided to proceed. So I dont think that Oakbrook has done 
anything wrong here, and so I dont think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. I am sorry if 
Ms C is facing problems repaying her loan, and I can see that Oakbrook has provided her 
with the contact details of some organisations that might be able to help her. But I dont 
require Oakbrook to put anything right in respect of Ms Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman