DRN-1134133
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the decision of CIS General Insurance Limited to hold him liable 
for an accident following a claim made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted CIS following a collision between his car and a third partys. He stated that 
the third party had caused the accident by attempting to undertake on the left when there 
was only one designated lane. In support of his position, Mr G forwarded video evidence of 
the incident from a camera mounted in his car, together with photographs showing where the 
incident took place.
Having viewed the evidence, CIS told Mr G that when merging into the single lane, he was 
carrying out the higher risk manoeuvre. On that basis CIS stated that Mr G would be held 
responsible for the collision, and it had therefore decided to settle the third party claim. CIS 
confirmed that it had done so on a without prejudice basis, so that Mr G could independently 
take further action on this matter if he wanted to.
Unhappy with CISs stance on liability for the incident, Mr G brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, concluding that CIS had acted reasonably 
when accepting liability.
Mr G disagreed with these findings. He has commented that the video footage shows the 
third party undertaking in a dangerous manner, and also that the third party had been driving 
aggressively prior to the accident. Mr G has reiterated his concerns that the third party was 
in breach of the Highway Code in relation to overtaking on the left. He has suggested that 
the Highway Code has been ignored when considering this matter, and that the third party 
was responsible in law for the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, the terms of the insurance policy provide CIS with the right to the 
full conduct and control of the defence or settlement of any claim made under it. Insurers 
have much experience of handling claims and of court proceedings, and will use this 
knowledge to determine whether or not to defend a claim from a third party, taking into 
account the costs involved in doing so. When investigating a complaint such as this one, this 
service considers whether the insurer has exercised its discretion to deal with the third party 
claim reasonably. We do not decide who was responsible for causing a road traffic accident, 
as this is what the courts do.
I appreciate that Mr G considers he was not at fault for the accident he was involved in. He 
has provided a detailed description of the incident, including video footage and photographs. 
One of Mr Gs main concerns is that the third party acted illegally and contrary to the 
Highway Code by attempting to undertake his car on the left hand side, causing the collision.
However, in assessing this complaint, I need to determine whether CIS used its discretion to 
settle the claim fairly, based on the evidence provided. CIS concluded that when merging 
into the single lane, Mr G was carrying out the higher risk manoeuvre, as the third party was 
already in the left hand lane.  Overall, I consider that CIS did use its discretion reasonably 
when choosing to settle the third party claim.
I appreciate that Mr G is likely to be disappointed with my conclusions. However, my view is 
that CIS did use its discretion reasonably when choosing to settle the third party claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020. 
John Swain
Ombudsman