DRN-3857073
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs N complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont allow them to switch to an 
interest only product as they anticipate they may face financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs N have a capital and interest repayment mortgage and purchased their 
property under the Help to Buy scheme. In view of the increased energy bills and the cost-of-
living crisis, they want to transfer to an interest-only one for a few years. Mr S and Mrs Ns 
business went under during the Coronavirus Pandemic. They took out a number of 
unsecured loans but were unable to take out extra borrowing on their mortgage because 
under the Help to Buy scheme, they were prevented from doing so. In anticipation of having 
to pay interest under that scheme and to meet the additional cost of living costs, Mr S and 
Mrs N turned to Barclays to move to interest only to reduce the mortgage costs. 
But to do so, Mr S and Mrs N say that Barclays requires an income of £100,000 and a loan 
to value (LTV) of less than 50%. Mr S and Mrs N say that they meet the income 
requirement but not yet the LTV. Mr S and Mrs Ns LTV was 56%, and in September 2022 
53%. Mr S and Mrs N ask for more flexibility from Barclays. Barclays says that the banks 
eligibility criteria doesnt allow it to offer Mr S and Mrs N an interest-only mortgage. Barclays 
says it will consider a temporary transfer, but this would be recorded as a payment 
arrangement on their credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as with a Help to 
Buy mortgage, Barclayss lending criteria requires that its mortgage is set up as a capital 
repayment and not interest only. Mr S and Mrs N disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs N anticipate financial difficulties and asked Barclays to transfer their mortgage 
from capital repayment to interest-only. Barclays has indicated that it may consider a 
temporary move to interest-only but not a permanent transfer. Mr S and Mrs N say that they 
are only prevented from transferring because the LTV on their property fails to meet 
Barclayss lending criteria and that a more flexible attitude from Barclays would allow them to 
switch.  But our investigator points to a greater difficulty in that Barclays lending criteria, 
which the lender supplied us with, says that lending on an interest-only basis for any 
mortgage facility agreed on a shared equity basis is unacceptable. That means that 
whatever about the income and the LTV, whilst this property is held on shared equity basis, 
and this property is part of the Help to Buy scheme, an interest-only mortgage is not 
available under Barclayss lending criteria. Barclays should act fairly to Mr S and Mrs N, but 
it has established criteria for interest-only mortgages and, in my view, Mr S and Mrs N dont 
qualify and so, we wouldnt expect Barclays to offer it to them.
I would expect Barclays to assist Mr S and Mrs N in their financial difficulties. In my view this 
is what they were doing when the lender suggested it could explore a temporary interest-
only transfer. I do see the difficulties in that as it will require higher payments in the future, 
and it will be recorded as an arrangement on the credit file and Im not sure whether it will or 
will not suit Mr S and Mrs N. Its normal that a payment arrangement will be recorded as 
such, and I dont know whether the possibility of term extension was explored as that 
presumably would assist in easing the impact when the interest-only period comes to an 
end. Mr S and Mrs N may wish to continue exploring that with Barclays.
I note that Barclays also suggested that Mr S and Mrs N speak with their unsecured 
creditors. The contact note says that Mr S declined. Where there is an impending debt 
situation, its helpful to have the whole picture looked at, including unsecured debt and Mr S 
and Mrs N might want to consider getting advice from a free debt advice service such as 
StepChange which should be able to provide Mr S and Mrs N with advice about dealing with 
their unsecured and secured debts. My role here is to decide whether Barclays acted fairly to 
date. I consider that it did. It refused a change to an interest -only mortgage as outside its 
eligibility criteria but was willing to consider one on a temporary basis. So, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman