DRN-3465140
The complaint
Miss D complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) unfairly 
defaulted her two loan accounts. 
Miss D also says that it took Lending Stream three years to default her accounts. 
What happened
Miss D had two loans from Lending Stream. 
Loan 1 was taken on 28 February 2019 for £250. Miss D was contracted to make five 
monthly repayments of £82.49 followed by a sixth payment of £81.68. 
Loan 2 was granted on 19 April 2019 for £300. Again, Miss D was contracted to 
make a total of six-monthly repayments. She needed to make five payments of 
£106.27 and a sixth and final payment of £68.65. 
However, as these loans overlapped, Miss Ds total monthly commitment to Lending Stream 
was no more than £188.76.  
Ive gone into quite a bit of detail below around the circumstances that led to the accounts 
being defaulted, because it will help to add context to what is discussed in the my findings 
part of the decision. 
Miss D made her first contractual repayment for loan one due at the end of March 2019. 
However, before the next contractual repayment due in April, and after the second loan was 
approved a payment arrangement was agreed between Miss D and Lending Stream. For 
loan one, she agreed to pay £13.80 per month. For loan two she agreed to pay £16.19 per 
month. 
Based on the information I have been provided with, Miss D made her payments, as agreed 
under the repayment plan each month  with the last payment on this plan being 
successfully taken in July 2019. However, the statement of account shows no further 
repayments were made towards the loans until April 2020. 
Lending Stream says when it tried to take the payments in August 2019 it failed. Miss D then 
contacted Lending Stream on 12 September 2019 because she had received text messages 
telling her that her loan accounts were in arrears and could be sent to the debt collection 
agency. Lending Stream responded on the same day acknowledging her concerns and 
providing a complaint reference ticket.
Lending Stream provided a full response to Miss D on 14 September 2021. It explained her 
account was in arrears. It went on to explain the following about the repayment plan:
Alternatively, we can reschedule your payment arrangement. If you wish to go ahead 
with this, please send us your explicit consent. 
Due to missed-payments, our Automated Payment System has been revoked to 
process any payments from your registered debit card ending [card number]. If you 
wish to reinstate it for upcoming repayments, we would request you to send us a 
confirmation post making the overdue payment.
 
Lending Stream says no explicit consent was received from Miss D which meant her 
September 2019 payments also failed. As a result, on 2 October 2019 Lending Stream 
issued a notice of default. 
On the same day the default notice was issued I can see Miss D contacted Lending Stream 
due to the repayment issues. Miss D also reiterated she was in financial difficulties. 
On 4 October 2019, Lending Stream responded, outlining the payments that had been 
missed and reminded Miss D that it hadnt received payments since July 2019, and it has 
issued a default notice. 
Throughout the rest of the month, there are emails backwards and forwards to do with 
Miss Ds income and expenditure forms. It was this time, that Miss D raised a complaint 
about irresponsible lending.
On 19 November 2019, Miss D called Lending Stream about her account and at this point 
another repayment plan was agreed. Lending Stream has provided notes which it says is a 
summary of this call. The notes say, Lending Stream told Miss D that if payments werent 
made then it would pass her accounts to a third-party collection agency. 
The first payment for the new arrangement was due to be collected on 15 January 2020. 
Miss D had committed that she would pay £11.50 towards loan one and £13.49 for loan two. 
Lending Stream says it was unable to collect these payments as agreed. Lending Stream 
says further reminders were sent to Miss D about the missed payments. 
No further payments were made, on 19 February 2020 Lending Stream re-issued the default 
notices. When it didnt hear anything further the loan accounts where then transferred to a 
third-party collection agency on 18 March 2020. 
Lending Stream says the defaults have been recorded on Miss Ds credit file from July 2020. 
Miss D then made a complaint to Lending Stream who issued a final response letter (FRL) 
on 11 June 2021. The FRL provided an overview of what happened and how, in
Lending Streams view it hadnt made an error when it defaulted the two loan accounts. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss D referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he said it shouldnt be upheld. He explained, 
in summary that Miss D hadnt made her repayments in line with the schedule of payments 
and hadnt kept to the repayment plans that she had agreed. As a result, the adjudicator 
thought it was reasonable for Lending Stream to report the loan accounts as being in default 
on her credit file. 
Lending Stream acknowledged the adjudicators assessment but didnt provide any further 
comments. 
Miss D didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In summary she said.
Lending Stream didnt report the default to all three of the credit reference agencies. 
The defaults were applied three years after the loan and the defaults are for small 
sums. The loans have essentially wrecked her credit file for 9 years. 
Miss D is unhappy with the service she has received from the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
The Financial Conduct Authority says the default ought to have been applied within 
six months instead it took Lending Stream 3 years to report the default. 
The defaults are having an impact on Miss Ds ability to obtain a mortgage. 
Later the same day, Miss D sent another email to the Financial Ombudsman Service with 
details of another default (from a different credit provider) the credit reference agency was 
deleting. She also explained it wasnt fair for the accounts to be defaulted for such a small 
sum. 
After Miss D requested the complaint be considered by an ombudsman, she provided some 
further comments for consideration. She explained:
She is struggling to obtain a mortgage and has provided some details of her current 
financial position.
There are no other missed or late payments on her credit file.
This matter has taken nearly two year of her life, for the sake of small value loans.
She provided some further details about her personal circumstances at the time 
around the time the loans were lent and being repaid. 
Miss D says her credit rating isnt an accurate reflection of her financial position 
because she has always paid on time and other commitments such as council tax 
and utilities arent recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
The default is ruining her life.  
Miss D had four years ago gathered her debts up and repaid them rather then enter 
some sort of insolvency. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to start by saying that it isnt my role to consider the service Miss D has 
received from the Financial Ombudsman Service. This is a matter for a team manager, and I 
can see from the file that this has been considered and addressed, so I say no more about it.
Recording a default
Under this section of the decision, Ive gone on to consider what Lending Stream knew at the 
time Miss D was having problems repaying her loans and what does good industry practice 
say about when a default should or shouldnt be reported. Ive also gone onto consider 
whether the correct process was followed. 
As Ive explained above, Miss D had made her first repayment due for loan one on time. 
However, on 26 April 2019 Lending Stream and Miss D agreed the repayment plan outlined 
earlier on in the decision. 
By entering into the repayment plan Miss D was departing from the schedule of repayment 
as outlined in the credit agreement for each loan. This meant, as soon as she went onto the 
repayment plan her account wouldve fallen into arrears and adverse credit file information 
couldve been reported at this time. I can see from the loan statements of accounts that payments were made through the 
repayment plan up until the end of July 2019. However, after July 2019 no repayments were 
made in either August or September 2019. A default notice was then issued at the start of 
October 2019.
I have a copy of this notice, which seems to be addressed correctly and it contains 
everything a default ought to contain. For example, it tells Miss D how far in arrears her 
accounts was as well as what she needed to do (and by what date) before a default would 
be recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
I can see that on the day the default notice was issued Miss D contacted Lending Stream in 
order to discuss a way forward and provided details of her income and expenditure. This 
probably explains why (although I cant be sure of it), a default wasnt recorded on her credit 
file at this time. It is worth mentioning, that a lender being aware of financial difficulties 
wouldnt necessarily mean that a default cant be applied at any point in time. 
I think, given what Lending Stream was aware of in relation to Miss Ds situation it wouldve 
been incorrect to record a default at this time. While the loan accounts were sufficiently in 
arrears, Miss D was in contact with it about repaying what she owed, and appeared willing to 
discuss a way forward. 
A new repayment plan was then set up to begin in January 2020. However again, the 
statement of account shows that no payments were made. This was now the second time a 
repayment plan had failed, and so I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to 
have issued a second default notice in February 2020. 
Again, I have notes showing the default notice being issued and the default notice, as far as 
I can see, did contain all the information which it needed to. 
Overall, looking at the statement of account and what Lending Stream knew, Im satisfied 
that firstly, the accounts were sufficiently in arrears for the default notices to be issued  in 
as much as Miss D hadnt made the contractual repayments since March 2019. 
Secondly, given the periods of time where there was no contact to discuss a way forward, it 
was reasonable for Lending Stream to have concluded the default process shouldve 
restarted as there appeared to have been a breakdown in the relationship between it and 
Miss D. 
In my view, the actions of Lending Stream are consistent with the guidance issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the body created which deals with an 
individuals data, and it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonably 
to rely on this, because in my view, it constitutes good industry practice.
Principle 3 is entitled If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is reported will depend 
on whether it is agreed with the lender.
It goes on to say:
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.
andIf your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the 
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in arrears 
on the original agreement.
The ICO is clear, all the time Miss D stuck to her repayment plan a default wouldnt be 
recorded on her credit file  although adverse information would still be reported about such 
a plan. But as long as the account was sufficiently in arrears, then Lending Stream could, if 
the plan wasnt stuck to issue a default notice, which is what happened in October 2019 and 
February 2020. 
However, as Ive said above, after the first default notice was issued Miss D was in 
communication with it about her financial difficulties and her income and expenditure. I do 
consider it reasonable at this point in time that the default wasnt applied to her credit file, 
especially, in light of the fact, that at the end of November 2019 a new plan was agreed. 
Turning to Principle 4, which is mentioned above  titled If you fall into arrears on your 
account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be 
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
The principle then goes on to say;
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
As Ive said, full contractual repayments hadnt been made since March 2019 and no 
payments received at all  according to the statement of account since July 2019. So the 
loan accounts were sufficiently in arrears for a default notice to be issued. 
But as Miss D was in communication with Lending Stream I dont think it wouldve been 
correct to default the account in October 2019 because there was clearly ongoing dialogue 
to try and get a way forward sorted. 
However, when the second plan failed in January 2020, Lending Stream was again perfectly 
entitled to and correct in sending a second default. As Ive said above, the correct 
information was contained within the notice and Im satisfied from the notes and copy of the 
default notice that it was sent. 
By this point, contractual repayments hadnt been made for nearly a year and Lending 
Stream hadnt received any repayments for a number of months. 
When Miss D didnt comply with the default notice, Lending Stream took action to pass it to a 
third-party collection agency. I can see from the statement of account that Miss D re-started 
payments from April 2020 and these were regularly made until the loans were settled in 
September 2021. 
Ive thought carefully, about the default date, as I can see that Miss Ds credit file shows it 
being added from July 2020. I dont know why there was a slightly delay in reporting to the credit reference agencies. But Im not going to ask Lending Stream to update it because, 
firstly, the default is an accurate reflection of how Miss D manged her loan accounts and 
secondly, it is in my view unlikely to have any material impact on Miss Ds current credit 
score. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss D hadnt stuck to the repayment plans that she agreed with 
Lending Stream and the loan accounts were sufficiently in arrears for the default notices to 
be issued. Therefore, in line with the guidance issued by the ICO, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to default the accounts. 
What information is being reported on Miss Ds credit file?
In this part of the decision, Ive considered whether the information lending Stream reporting 
is correct as well as attempting to provide some responses to the comments Miss D raised in 
response to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss D has said that Lending Stream has taken three years to report the default on her credit 
file. This means, in total, these loans records will remain her credit file for a total of nine 
years. 
Firstly, Miss D says that she shouldnt be punished for the default given the small sums 
involved. In this case, I do agree that the amount of the defaults are relativity small. 
However, the size of the balance that is owed doesnt, as far as Im aware, have any bearing 
on whether an account should default. 
The only considerations with regards to the balance is that a lender or credit provider cant 
default a credit agreement if what is owed is solely made up of interest, fees and charges.
However, looking at the statement of account Lending Stream has provided it is clear the 
defaulted balances were made up of unpaid capital as well as interest. So, in this case, while 
the outstanding balances may have been small, the amount that is owed wouldnt have had 
influence on Lending Streams decision to default. 
Instead, Lending Stream wouldve considered Miss Ds account was sufficiently in arrears  
in as much as she hadnt stuck to the payment scheduled outlined in the credit agreement 
and  the repayment plans she had agreed to. As a result, and the fact there were periods of 
time where there was no response from Miss D  Lending Stream reasonably concluded 
defaulting the balance was the correct thing to do.  
Ive considered what Lending Stream is reporting to the credit reference agencies by using 
the full credit report that Miss D provided us at the end of March 2022. The two loans 
records C1 and C2 within Miss Ds credit report. 
These records have the correct start date for these loans, February and April 2019 and both 
loans have the same default date 13 July 2020. This is the date that Lending Stream has 
told us the accounts were defaulted so it is right this is the date that is recorded on Miss Ds 
credit file. 
Miss D has said that it took three years to default for the account, but I cant see that in the 
record. The accounts were opened in 2019 and defaulted in July 2020. This is less than the 
three years Miss D says it took Lending Stream to default the account. 
Indeed, had it taken three years for the accounts to be defaulted, Id have expected to see 
default dates of around April 2022. But I know from the date of the complaint, that Miss D 
was aware of the defaults in 2021. It is of course possible, that while Lending Streams records and Miss Ds credit file now 
shows the default as being applied in July 2020 this wasnt actually recorded with the credit 
reference agencies until some point after this date. 
But I havent seen any evidence that this actually happened. Hypothetically, even if it took 
Lending Stream some months to update Miss Ds credit file to show the accounts as being 
defaulted, that wouldnt be an error Id be able to make an award for because what 
Lending Stream is reporting and what I can see in the credit file is correct.  
The defaults (and loan record) will stay on Miss Ds credit file for six years from the date the 
default was applied. This means the loan records will drop off from Miss Ds credit file in or 
around July 2026. 
Lending Stream says the accounts were passed to a third-party collection agency who 
collected the full balance that was owed by September 2021. This is why, I can see the loan 
records were last updated in October 2021  to reflect the fact Miss D had repaid all that she 
had owed. I again cant say this is an error. 
The two default records have also been marked as satisfied. This is correct, as it will tell 
other prospective lenders that Miss D had defaulted on these loans accounts but importantly, 
she had repaid the full balance and doesnt owe Lending Stream any more money. This is 
an accurate reflection of what has happened and therefore, Lending Stream isnt required to 
make any adjustments to the records. 
It is worth noting, that even if the defaults werent recorded in relation to these two loans 
Lending Stream still wouldve been entitled to report adverse information on Miss Ds credit 
file as she hadnt repaid her loans in line with the credit agreements. This may or may not 
have been viewed favourably by a mortgage lender. 
I also have to say, that it isnt for the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell a prospective 
mortgage lender how much weight (if any at all) it should place on information reported on 
someones credit file in relation to a default. Each mortgage provider will have their own 
scoring system that it is entitled to use as it sees fit. 
Finally, Miss D says that Lending Stream hadnt reported the default to all of the different 
credit reference agencies. Ive thought carefully about this point, but the ICO says the 
following about this:
Do I have to get my credit report from all three CRAs [credit reference agencies]?
As there is no requirement under data protection law for lenders to report such data 
to all the CRAs, it is up to the lender to decide which CRA they wish to use, if any.
While we appreciate it is frustrating you may have to obtain three copies of your 
credit reference file. You may want to consider obtaining one report first as it could 
be that all accounts appear on there and you wont have to obtain the other two. You 
could ask your lenders which CRAs they use to help narrow this down. You may find 
that they all use one, or even all of, the CRAs.
Therefore, if Lending Stream hadnt reported the defaults to all or some of the credit 
reference agencies, wouldnt be an error as the ICO says there is no requirement for 
Lending Stream to do so. 
I appreciate Miss D will be disappointed by the outcome especially because of the impact 
that she says the defaults are having on her ability to obtain a mortgage. I am also sorry to hear about the life events that she was dealing with at the time  I do hope things have 
improved for her. Its also understandable, given what shes told us that dealing with Lending 
Stream may not have been her priority. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to default 
the two loan accounts and what is showing on Miss Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of 
the way she repaid her loan accounts. I therefore cant ask Lending Stream to make any 
adjustments to her credit file. I do hope my explanation has been helpful for her. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman