DRN-2829715
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AWP Assistance UK Ltd, trading as Allianz Assistance, (AWP) 
did not provide assistance under his home emergency policy when his front door lock failed.
What happened
 Mr C had a home emergency policy with AWP. In August 2020, Mr C reported to AWP that 
he had an issue with the locking mechanism of his front door, which resulted in the key 
snapping in the door lock. He said that his property was left insecure and that he had to pay 
for locksmith services to have it rectified. Mr C felt that this should have been covered by the 
policy.
AWP informed Mr C that he wasnt covered for this event and Mr C said that AWP were 
unable to direct him to any policy wording which showed the key snapping wouldnt be 
covered by his home emergency policy. Mr C complained to AWP but didnt receive a final 
response letter, so the complaint was referred to our service.
AWP states that it sent a business file to the service, but the investigator was unable to 
access the file with the passwords provided. Following reminders to AWP, the investigators 
had to review the file on a limited information basis.
The investigator stated that because shed been unable to access the business file and no 
final response letter had been issued, she couldnt say why AWP chose to decline the claim, 
nor could she say what term had been relied upon by AWP. Based on the limited information 
she had available, she thought that Mr Cs claim should have been paid.
To resolve the matter, the investigator considered that AWP should reimburse the cost of the 
locksmith services. She also considered that AWP should pay £100 for the poor handling of 
the complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied with the outcome as he considered that £100 did not sufficiently 
compensate him for what he described as; moderate to substantial distress and 
inconvenience - my house left unsafe with the door wide open during the night with my wife 
and young family inside.
In the circumstances, I will now look at the matter afresh in my role as  Ombudsman and 
issue a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is Mr Cs home insurance policy provided by AWP. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the policy and these include the following definition;
Emergency/emergencies
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will:
 make your home unsafe or insecure;
In these circumstances, the policy states that AWP will; 
Provide initial advice to you;
Arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home;
Pay up to £1,000 in total (incl VAT) for each emergency claim incident, towards labour costs 
(including call out charges, materials and parts required to effect emergency repairs in your 
home and overnight accommodation);
It goes on to say;
We will only provide this cover if the emergency happens during the period of cover and it is 
caused by one or more of the following:
Security and glazing:
Failure of, or damage not caused by you to, outside locks, doors, or windows which means 
that your home is no longer secure.
Finally, the policy further states;
Before you call us
You can make urgent repairs to prevent further damage  like fixing a forced lock or broken
Window.
Turning now to the facts of the case, Mr C had explained that the door lock had jammed, and 
the key snapped in the door, which meant he was unable to lock the door again.
Ive not been provided with any independent report from either party confirming how the key
snapped so Ive got to base my decision on whats most likely to have happened.
I agree with our investigator in this respect and think its hard to say that the key snapped in 
the door without an element of excessive force, but I agree that its likely that it got stuck 
because there was a fault with the door lock and so the failure or damage was not caused 
directly by Mr C.
The policy exclusions go on to say that they wont cover claims for deliberate damage 
caused by you. I again agree with our investigator that its unlikely Mr C deliberately 
damaged his front door. He had his family in the house at the time of the incident and its 
extremely unlikely that he would have placed his own family and property at risk.
To turn to the reasoning for my decision, in the light of the wording of the policy, I cannot say 
that it was fair or reasonable for AWP to have declined to assist Mr C. In the emergency 
circumstances faced by Mr C and his family, I consider that it was also entirely reasonably 
that Mr C paid a locksmith to carry out the work and AWP should therefore reimburse the 
costs of this work.
Ive considered Mr Cs reasons for saying that he didnt think £100 sufficiently compensated 
him for distress and inconvenience caused. He stated that his house was left unsafe with the 
door wide open during the night with his family inside. This does not match the complaint to 
AWP which referred to Mr Cs home being insecure since the lock could be forced by the remaining portion of the key. On the balance of probabilities, Ive accepted that the home 
was left insecure, however I think that this sum offers sufficient compensation for AWPs for 
its poor handling of his complaint. 
Its extremely disappointing that AWP have not co-operated with the service in bringing this 
matter to a close, however I think that the level of compensation set by the investigator was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require AWP Assistance UK Ltd;
- to pay Mr C the cost of the locksmith services (following provision by Mr C of a receipt or 
invoice) minus the excess amount. 
- to pay interest on the cost of the repairs calculated from the date Mr C paid this amount to 
the locksmith to the date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest*.
- To pay compensation to Mr C in the sum of £100 for the extra time, trouble and
inconvenience caused to Mr C and to pay this sum within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell AWP that Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple interest*.
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman