DRN-3484856
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund some of the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr D says that in March 2018 he invested £5,000 in a three-year bond with a company he 
had used before. He was meant to receive a £700 return in year one and £500 in both 
subsequent years. There were some problems with payment in the first year which were 
blamed on bank interference and then in September 2019 Mr D received a letter which said 
the account was being suspended. Mr D was advised the companys legal team would 
appoint an escrow agent to deal with the return of his funds. 
In May the following year Mr D was approached by a company Ill call W. W said it had been 
legally appointed to return Mr Ds investment. Mr D was provided with a terms of service 
document which included terms and conditions and an invoice for £2,800 to cover a 
termination fee which would be returned when the process was complete. Before he made 
the payment, Mr D was told it would take up to 14 working days to receive a refund. After 
hed paid, Mr D received a receipt. As Mr D didnt hear from W after this he chased by email 
and telephone. W told Mr D it had found another investment hed made previously that it 
could also recover for him if he paid a further fee of £3,750. Again, Mr D was told the fee 
would be refunded.  
Mr D made two further payments totalling £3,750 (£2,000 and £1,750) in June 2020 and was 
provided with another terms of service document. Soon after, Mr D received a text message 
in respect of funds being paid into his Lloyds account, but he didnt receive anything. W 
advised of a way to deal with this which involved an escrow account and a further fee of 
£5,000. When Mr D tried to make this payment in July 2020, Lloyds spoke to him and asked 
him to attend a branch. In branch, the Banking Protocol was invoked.  
A few months later Mr D was the victim of a further scam. After making a payment of £950 
Mr D tried to make a further payment. At this stage Lloyds blocked the payment and spoke 
to Mr D and explained it was another scam. Mr D hasnt asked this service to consider the 
subsequent scam and says his complaint is in respect of the £6,550 paid to W. 
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. When Lloyds first investigated Mr Ds complaint it said Mr D 
failed to complete adequate checks. It later agreed to refund 50% of the payments of £2000 
and £1,750. In its final response letter Lloyds agreed to refund the remaining 50% of these 
two payments as it said it could have prevented them. But Lloyds said Mr D didnt take 
enough care to ensure he was paying for a legitimate service when he made the £2,800 
payment. Lloyds also agreed to pay interest for the period Mr D was without the funds plus 
£40 compensation for not making the right decision when it first considered Mr Ds claim. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this case didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said that 
the payments Lloyds hasnt refunded (including some before those involved in the W scam) 
werent unusual and so Lloyds shouldnt have done anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
- His complaint is only about the payments W instructed him to make (for £2,800, 
£2,000 and £1,750).
- He doesnt understand why Lloyds would refund £2,000 and £1,750 and not the 
original £2,800 payment. Mr D said if he hadnt made the first payment the 
subsequent payments wouldnt have been made. 
- Lloyds accepted joint responsibility for the loss of £3,750 but only when Mr D 
complained. 
The complaint was passed to me to and I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2022. 
In my provisional decision I said:
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr D under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
As Mr D has already received a refund of £3,750, the only payment I need to consider is Mr 
Ds initial payment of £2,800 to W. I appreciate the fact Lloyds didnt initially refund £3,750 
but feel it acted reasonably in paying interest to Mr D to put him in the position hed have 
been in had it decided to provide a refund when Mr Ds case was first assessed. In addition 
to this, Lloyds has paid Mr D compensation. So Im not asking Lloyds to do anything more in 
respect of the two payments totalling £3,750.
I turn now to the £2,800 payment. Theres no dispute here that Mr D was tricked into making 
the payments. But this isnt enough for him to receive a refund of the money under the CRM 
Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr D too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
I accept that Mr D could have completed more checks before he made the £2,800 payment 
but on balance think he had a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a genuine 
service at the time he made this payment. I think the position would likely have changed 
when Mr D made subsequent payments, but I dont need to consider these as Lloyds 
recognised it could have prevented the later payments. I have reached the conclusion Mr D 
had a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for genuine services because:
-Mr D received communication from the company he initially invested in to say that an 
escrow agent would be appointed to deal with the return of his funds. So the contact 
from W wasnt totally out of the blue and made sense to Mr D.
-Mr D received terms of service which included terms and conditions from W. The 
terms and conditions themselves are hard to understand and I think this was a 
deliberate ploy to make W sound official. I dont consider Mr D should have 
recognised that the terms werent genuine.
-Mr D received emails from W with the usual disclaimers and registered office 
address. This would make them seem authentic. 
-At the time Mr D made the £2,800 payment there were no scam warnings or reviews 
about W. I have seen a review from October 2020, but this is after Mr D made the 
£2,800 payment. -Its not clear if Mr D checked if W was a registered company before he made the 
payment or later, when he discovered that he was the victim of a scam. There is a 
genuine company with the same name as W that is registered with Companies 
House. The nature of this companys business relates to business support service 
activities. So I dont think it would have been obvious to Mr D if he looked up W that it 
was a clone of a genuine company or that the genuine company wouldnt have been 
involved in recovery. 
-The CRM Code requires me to take into account all of the circumstances at the time 
including the characteristics of Mr D in deciding whether he had a reasonable basis 
for belief. It seems to me that Mr D is particularly trusting as I question whether the 
initial investment he sought to recover funds from was genuine and note that Mr D 
unwittingly made other scam payments prior to communicating with W. After this 
payment was made Lloyds invoked the Banking Protocol to protect Mr D. 
I asked Lloyds to explain why it believes Mr D doesnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
he was making a genuine payment. Lloyds has provided a list of reasons that cover all the 
payments Mr D made but the ones that seem to apply to the £2,800 payment are:
-Its unrealistic that a company would expect upfront fees.
-Its unrealistic that W could recover a lost investment.
-There were no clear timescales for when Mr D could expect a refund.
-Mr D didnt use a financial advisor.
-Mr D was sent bank details by text or they were given in a phone call and bank 
details didnt appear on Ws invoice.
I dont think that for these reasons its fair to conclude that Mr D shouldnt receive a refund 
under the CRM Code. Some genuine companies require payment on account before work is 
completed so I dont consider paying an upfront fee ought to have led Mr D to be concerned. 
I understand that with its knowledge of fraud and scams this would be a red flag for Lloyds, 
but I cant expect Mr D to know this is a common feature of this type of scam. And Mr D was 
given a clear timescale for the recovery of his funds, which Ive referred to above. Im also 
not persuaded that Mr D acted unreasonably in not having a financial advisor and I dont 
consider that because payee bank details werent shown on the invoices Mr D should have 
thought something was amiss.  
Overall, Im satisfied that, considering his knowledge and experience, Mr Ds belief that he 
was engaging in a legitimate transaction was reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds ought to have done more to protect Mr D from 
financial harm from fraud. But I dont think the payment request was so unusual and out of 
character that Lloyds should have intervened before the payment left Mr Ds account. But I 
consider the position was different when Mr D made the next two payments totalling £3,750 
because these payments took Mr D into overdraft to an extent that was unusual for him. 
Taking account of all the circumstances here, on balance Im not satisfied that Lloyds has 
been able to establish that Mr D made the £2,800 payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing he was paying a genuine company. So I dont consider Lloyds has been able to 
demonstrate that one of the exceptions to reimbursement listed in the CRM Code applies in 
this case.
Mr D let me know that he accepted my provisional decision and Lloyds didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has raised any additional points for me to consider I see no reason to make 
any further comments or reach a different outcome to that set out in my provisional decision 
(and reproduced above). 
My final decision
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Refund £2,800 to Mr D;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate that applied to the account the funds 
were paid from. Interest should be paid from the date Lloyds originally made its 
decision under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman