DRN-2031336
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim. 
Ageas use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage their 
claims. So any reference made to Ageas within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
A large proportion of Mr Ws concerns centre predominantly around the acts or 
omissions of the solicitors appointed by Ageas to act on his behalf. But as the 
investigator has already highlighted, Ageas is the legal expenses insurance provider, 
not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the case and managing the legal 
proceedings. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in light 
of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligation reasonably 
and dealt with the claim fairly. The insurer is not responsible for the acts or omissions 
of the solicitors, and neither do we have any jurisdiction to consider such complaints. 
Mr W says that Ageas misled his solicitor into believing that the limit of indemnity 
(LOI) was to be split 50/50 such that half of the pot was to be reserved to cover the 
other sides costs. He has based this on a call note made by the solicitors which 
states that the insurer said that [the solicitors] analysis of the split of the indemnity 
of £25k/£25k Claimant/Def is correct. Mr W says this means that Ageas did not 
interpret the terms of the policy correctly as there is no such requirement. But I do not 
consider this call note to be conclusive evidence that Ageas misled the solicitors. It 
seems the agent was simply agreeing to the solicitors proposal to manage the LOI in 
a certain way  which I note was in line with advice given by counsel in 2014. I do not 
consider it to be determinative of the insurer saying it was a strict requirement of the 
policy. So Im not persuaded that Ageas misled the solicitors with regard to the terms 
and conditions, but instead agreed for the LOI to be managed in a particular way. 
And if such an arrangement resulted in a limited indemnity to fund the legal claim 
itself, it was for the solicitor to warn Mr W of this and advise him on how to proceed  
not the insurer  as it is the solicitor that is responsible for monitoring costs and 
maintaining oversight of the LOI.
Mr W says that Ageas should have required the solicitors to provide an estimate of 
the total cost of arbitration before commencing arbitration proceedings, as it would 
have been apparent to them that the policy limit would be exceeded. However, the 
insurer is not in a position to assess or advise on costs, and nor are they managing 
the legal proceedings. It is for the solicitors to determine the estimate of costs and 
advise the insurer/policyholder accordingly  meaning Ageas would have been reliant 
on the solicitor providing them with this information. But if the solicitor did not advise 
Ageas from the outset that there was an insufficient LOI remaining to proceed to 
arbitration, then they had no reason to suspect otherwise. And if Mr W wanted to 
know this information, he ought to have obtained this from his solicitor.
So, having considered all the evidence, it appears that Mr Ws main dispute is with the 
solicitors in these circumstances, and Im satisfied that Ageas have not acted in breach of 
their obligations to either party or have done anything substantially wrong in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman