DRN-2823908
The complaint
Mr A complains about the medical advice and diagnosis he was given when he made a 
claim under his private medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr A was insured under a group private medical insurance policy, provided by BUPA. 
In January 2020, Mr A contacted BUPA to make a claim for a knee injury hed sustained the 
previous year. Mr A said hed seen a physiotherapist who hed used previously, who thought 
he might have a ligament tear and advised him not to run but thered been no improvement.  
BUPA offered Mr A the option of getting a GP referral, a physiotherapist referral or having a 
triage call over the phone with a physiotherapist. Mr A says he chose the triage call as this 
was what BUPA recommended to him. 
Mr A subsequently had the triage call, during which he described his symptoms. The 
physiotherapist diagnosed a medial ligament tear and advised Mr A to follow an exercise 
programme. Mr A also continued running on the advice of the physiotherapist. 
Mr A had a follow-up call with the physiotherapist, but Mr A says she didnt attend a further 
follow-up call that had been arranged and, also, she didnt respond to an email Mr A sent. 
In April 2020, Mr A retired and his benefits under the group medical insurance policy ended. 
Mr A later returned to his original physiotherapist, who said he should have been sent for an 
MRI scan. When this was arranged at Mr As own expense, he was diagnosed with a torn 
meniscus. 
Mr A complained to BUPA. He said BUPA incorrectly diagnosed his knee injury, missed 
several opportunities to send him for an MRI scan and that the physiotherapist failed to both 
attend a follow-up appointment and to reply to his email. Mr A said hed had to pay for an 
MRI scan and would have to either pay for an operation or wait for years on the NHS as a 
result of BUPAs errors. I understand Mr A has since had an operation at his own expense 
and says his consultant was convinced the issue was always a meniscus tear and not a 
ligament tear. 
BUPA responded to Mr As complaint and said a triage physiotherapist would not make a 
referral for an MRI scan in the first instance. BUPA said it could find no follow up calls 
arranged with the physiotherapist via BUPA and it was unable to access her emails. Overall, 
BUPA said as Mr As policy benefits had now ended, it wouldnt reimburse him for the MRI 
scan hed paid for. 
As Mr A remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and said BUPA wasnt responsible for any 
diagnosis or errors made by the physiotherapist. Mr A didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say:
When you receive private medical treatment you have a contract with the providers 
of your treatment. 
Under his private medical insurance policy, Mr A has access to a network of BUPA-
recognised medical professionals. BUPA will pay for investigations and treatment carried out 
by these qualified medical professionals in certain circumstances, but these medical 
professionals arent employed by BUPA. BUPA doesnt regulate the medical professionals 
within its network of recognised providers, and BUPA isnt responsible for their actions or for 
any medical advice given by them. 
If Mr A has a complaint about the treatment he received from and/or the diagnosis made by 
the BUPA-recognised physiotherapist, then hed need to contact the physiotherapist directly.
Im sorry to hear about what has happened to Mr A and Im sorry to disappoint him, but 
BUPA isnt responsible for the matters he is complaining about. So, I wont be asking BUPA 
to do anything more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman