DRN-1798760
The complaint
Miss T and Mr T complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T was travelling abroad in March 2019, when her passport was stolen. This meant she 
wasnt able to travel home on her original flight. So she incurred costs in replacing her 
passport and for accommodation. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the 
cost of replacing her passport and for cash which was stolen at the same time.
UKI agreed to consider Miss Ts claim. It requested information from the airline, receipts, 
invoices and other evidence from her in order to do so. Miss T and Mr T provided UKI with 
information, but UKI didnt think it was enough to show Miss T had a valid claim. Miss T and 
Mr T continued to provide more evidence over the following months  including some 
information UKI already had. And each time Miss T or Mr T got in touch with UKI to chase up 
progress, they were asked for further information. 
Miss T and Mr T were unhappy with the way UKI handled their claim, so they complained. In 
November 2019, UKI ultimately paid the claim in line with the policy limit of £500 for lost 
passports and it paid her £200 for the lost cash.
UKI accepted that if it had handled Miss Ts claim correctly, it couldve settled the claim 
about two months earlier than it did. It acknowledged itd asked for information it already 
had. And it agreed to provide feedback for a letter being sent to Miss T and Mr T on wrongly-
branded paper, which had caused confusion. So it sent Miss T and Mr T a cheque for £200 
as compensation for its poor handling of the claim.
Miss T and Mr T didnt think the compensation recognised the time and trouble theyd been 
put to in dealing with the claim for several months. So they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought the compensation UKI had already paid Miss T and Mr T was 
enough to recognise its errors. She acknowledged that UKI had made mistakes in the way it 
handled the claim. And that the claim handling had caused Miss T and Mr T frustration. But 
she thought all insurance claims would cause a degree of inconvenience. She didnt think 
Miss T and Mr T had suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in settling the claim. 
So she felt £200 was fair compensation in the circumstances.
Miss T and Mr T disagreed. They explained thered been a number of interactions with UKI  
including many calls and letters sent in error or on the wrong paper, which had added to the 
confusion. Theyd had to make persistent calls and UKI had been causing unnecessary 
delays for eight months. They still felt the compensation was insufficient to recognise the 
delay in settlement, UKIs mistakes, the cost of their calls and the stress the whole matter 
had caused them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has paid Miss T and Mr T fair compensation. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that UKI made mistakes in the way it handled Miss Ts claim. Its clear 
from the notes that at points, UKI wasnt clear about what information it needed. It asked for 
duplicate information. It wrote to Miss T and Mr T using letter-headed branded paper which 
didnt reflect the policy theyd taken out. There were also delays in information being 
requested and actioned. I can see that for the most part, the claim largely progressed 
because of Miss T and Mr T chasing things up. I can appreciate how frustrating this mustve 
been for Miss T and Mr T and I can see they were doing their best to provide the information 
UKI needed to settle the claim.
UKI accepts that if itd handed the claim as it shouldve done, it couldve been paid in early 
September 2019. Instead, it was settled around two months later  meaning Miss T and Mr T 
didnt have access to the funds they were entitled to for an additional eight weeks or so. So I 
think it was appropriate for UKI to apologise for its poor service and to pay £200 
compensation to reflect this.
But in deciding what fair compensation should be, I need to consider the impact the handling 
of the claim had on Miss T and Mr T. My role isnt to punish or fine the businesses we cover 
 instead I look at the individual circumstances of a complaint to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
I can see there were periods of weeks when the claim wasnt progressing. At points, this was 
down to UKI not being proactive, or being unclear about the information it needed. But at 
other points, Miss T and Mr T were waiting for important evidence from their airline, which 
took some time. I dont think I can fairly hold UKI responsible for that. I appreciate the claim 
was going on for several months. And I dont doubt it was stressful for Miss T and Mr T, 
especially when they were doing their best to comply with UKIs requests. But I think the 
compensation UKI has paid fairly recognises their time and trouble and takes into account 
the calls they made to chase things along. Miss T and Mr T also havent pointed to any other 
specific loss they suffered as a result of the claim. And I havent seen enough to suggest the 
claim had a day to day adverse impact on their lives.
Overall, I think £200 is a fair and reasonable global award for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss T and Mr T suffered as a result of UKIs handling of their claim. So Im not telling it to 
pay anything more. I understand Miss T and Mr T havent cashed the cheque UKI sent them. 
If that cheque is now out of date, its open to them to request a replacement cheque from 
UKI for this amount.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss T and Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman