DRN-2407196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out the PPI policy in 2000 when they applied for a mortgage.
Neither party can confirm where the sale took place. The policy gave them accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the PPI was optional  and they had to
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed during the sale. Mr and Mrs F say they
were never told they didnt need PPI and were led to believe they had to have it. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented, and Nationwide no 
longer has any of the paperwork from the sale. This isnt unreasonable give how long ago 
the sale was. It says prior to Mr and Mrs F selecting PPI they would have been given a 
leaflet that explained the cover. It would have been their decision to take out the cover and 
to decide on the level of cover their policy provided.
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Fs recollections, but I have to take into account
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they remember. Overall, without
stronger evidence that Nationwide didnt make clear the PPI was optional and Mrs and Mrs F 
didnt agree to take it, I cant fairly uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs F, so it didnt have to check
the policy was right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs F enough information so
they could decide for themselves whether they wanted to buy it. Its possible the
information Mr and Mrs F were given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better
information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and
the policys terms and conditions.
They werent affected by any of the terms limiting the policys main benefits, such as
certain types of employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions. As they
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs F told us they were both entitled to less than three months sick pay and 
had savings worth at least six months salary. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to their work benefits and for much longer - up to 12 months. It would have 
allowed them to use any savings they had to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. It also gave them up to 12 
months redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs F were borrowing a large sum of money over 
a long period secured against their home. Given the serious consequences of 
missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI wouldve have been useful for Mr and 
Mrs F if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s). And as they were paying 
monthly, they could cancel it if their situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but the policy was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable.
So, in summary, I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if better
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide
didnt tell Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman