DRN-2067893
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the way she was treated by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. and with how it handled her claim.
What happened
Mrs L was on holiday with her husband, when they sadly ran into complications with their 
pregnancy. Mrs L experienced an ectopic pregnancy which resulted in the loss of their 
unborn child and the removal of a fallopian tube. Mrs L contacted her travel insurer, Mapfre, 
for assistance as shed been told by the treating surgeon that she was unfit to fly for a week 
post-surgery. This was a problem because their scheduled flight home fell within the 
recovery window.
Mrs L said Mapfre was unsupportive throughout her claim. She wanted to rearrange her 
flight home so she could travel back later than her planned departure date and in line with 
the medical advice from her treating team. Mapfre didnt respond in good time. Mrs L said 
that when she eventually received an answer, it said she should continue to take her 
scheduled flight. 
Mrs L said she was too unwell to travel back on that flight. And so, she and her husband 
booked another one a few days later. She challenged Mapfres decision that she was fit to fly 
and highlighted shed not received a consultation with one of its medical professionals.
Mapfre said it relied on IATA guidelines to decide whether Mrs L was fit to fly and assessed 
this with the medical records received by the treating hospital. It also highlighted that its own 
medical team was experienced with aviation medicine and that the doctor treating Mrs L had 
not specified his understanding of this. Mapfre said on that basis, its opinion should 
effectively override that of the treating doctor.
Our investigator didnt agree. She said the doctor treating Mrs L had first-hand experience of 
her condition and highlighted the recovery process from any operation is subjective. She 
said, therefore, in these individual circumstances, applying the IATA guidelines in the way 
Mapfre did  essentially bypassing Mrs L treating doctors comments  meant she was 
treated unfairly. 
Our investigator awarded Mrs L £250 for the trouble and upset this caused. She didnt make 
an award for the rearranged flights as Mapfre had already refunded the associated costs of 
around £2,000 upon their return to the UK.  
Mapfre asked for a final decision. It said the IATA guidelines state a patient thats 
experienced laparoscopic and a salpingectomy (the medical terms for Mrs Ls treatment) are 
fit to fly after five days. It also said the comments of the doctor that treated Mrs L should be 
regarded as information only and are not as persuasive as its medical opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and not reject claims 
unreasonably. In Mrs Ls circumstances, I think Mapfre fell short of its obligations under the 
Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). Ill explain why.
Im sorry to learn about the difficulties Mrs L and her husband experienced whilst they were 
on holiday. Mapfre has also extended its sympathies and recognised this was a very difficult 
time for them both. But I think the decision Mapfre initially made about Mrs L taking her 
original flight back to the UK was unfair. 
Mapfre said it made the decision in conjunction with IATA guidelines. In summary, these 
guidelines are there to support insurers with this type of decision. Mapfre said that based on 
IATA and the medical evidence, Mrs L was fit to fly home on the fifth day after her surgery. 
But this contradicted the medical evidence given by the doctor who treated Mrs L. 
The treating doctor said Mrs L was unfit to fly for at least a week and said she needed her 
husband to accompany her due to the anxiety of this experience. The reason Ive 
highlighted this is because it gives a clear recommendation about Mrs Ls fitness to fly and it 
also indicated she was experiencing a mental health condition brought on by her treatment. 
I understand why Mapfre referenced IATA guidelines in these circumstances, but they are 
simply guidelines and Id expect Mapfre to take into account any relevant information from 
the treating team. It, therefore, should not be blanketly applied. Id have expected Mapfre to 
have given due consideration to the individual circumstances surrounding Mrs Ls case. Ive 
not seen that any thought was given to Mrs Ls mental health prior to making the decision 
that she should return home on the original flight. I should highlight that this was mentioned 
in the discharge letter from the hospital. 
Mrs L said she felt as though she had to a lot of the chasing for medical information and that 
this should have been Mapfres responsibility. I understand the point shes making here. But 
I should say that Mapfre was contacting the hospital requesting the necessary and relevant 
medical information, but it wasnt getting a response. That said, I think there was enough 
medical evidence to hand which was persuasive in that Mrs L was unfit to fly when Mapfre 
wanted her to. Because Mapfre didnt agree with the treating doctors recommendation, I 
think it should have attempted to contact him directly  but Ive not seen any evidence it did.
Mrs L chose not to take the original flight back to the UK. She explained that she didnt feel 
well enough to do so and so she rescheduled her own flight a couple of days later to comply 
with the medical advice she received from the treating doctor. I think, given what Ive just 
explained, that this was the right thing to do. Mapfre eventually agreed to reimburse her 
associated costs  which I would have awarded in these circumstances. But it didnt pay her 
any compensation. It also said it reasonably adhered to the IATA guidelines and said that 
the emotive nature of the cause bares no standing on the medical evidence or the 
guidelines. 
Im not entirely sure what Mapfre means by this. But to be clear, I believe there was 
sufficient medical evidence that said Mrs L was unfit to fly. So, Mapfres decision to 
essentially override the recommendation and apply the guidelines in the way that it did was 
unfair. As a result, Mrs L was caused trouble and upset during an already very difficult time. I 
think it is important to recognise this as it is something Ive thought about when making my 
award. Its for these reasons, I believe the £250 trouble and upset award is fair.   Mapfre suggested the treating doctors comments should not carry as much weight as its 
own medical team as they are experienced in aviation medicine. I wanted to acknowledge 
this because its important that Mapfre understands I have considered its medical teams 
comments. I wanted to note there wasnt a medical professional involved in the decision to 
challenge the treating doctors recommendation until two days after Mapfre told Mrs L to 
catch the original flight. I also noted there was no discussion with the treating doctor to try 
and understand his point of view on Mrs Ls condition.  
I think given the wider circumstances, one of Mapfres suitably trained medical team should 
have considered this. I note on 15 February, this happened, and it still believed Mrs L was fit 
to fly. But Im more persuaded by her testimony and the recommendation of the treating 
doctor, for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A must pay Mrs L 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused by not handling her claim fairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman