DRN-3245507
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr E complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to his account. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr E was dissatisfied, he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr E was experiencing financial difficulty by August 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicator that Santander 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after August 
2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr E was at significant risk of financial 
difficulties and was unlikely to be in a position to sustainably repay what he owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr Es statements showed evidence of significant gambling and repeated 
payday lending and other high cost borrowing. Mr Es account was also showing signs of 
hardcore borrowing, it hadnt maintained a credit balance for some time. And in these 
circumstances, Santander ought to have realised that Mr E was at a significant risk of being 
unable to repay what he already owed. Santander has said it regularly reviews customer 
accounts to ensure that overdraft limits are still appropriate, and I think the conduct of Mr Es 
account by August 2018 should have given Santander cause for concern. In these 
circumstances, I think that Santander ought to have realised that continuing to allow Mr E to 
use his overdraft in this way wasnt in his best interests, and that he was at a significant risk 
of experiencing financial difficulty. And so Santander should have treated him with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges to his overdraft.
Mr E ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr E fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Es current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after August 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr E is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Es credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in August 
2018. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr E along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman