DRN-2959532
The complaint
Mrs J complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs J and to Nissan Finance on 4 
October 2021 and set out what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mrs J under a hire purchase agreement with Nissan 
Finance that she electronically signed in October 2019. There were some issues with 
the car and the dealer agreed that Mrs J could reject the car but Mrs J didnt accept 
the offer that it made to her so she complained to Nissan Finance.
It said that it was unable to amend the dealers offer and, as Mrs J hadnt agreed with 
it, it was unable to progress the matter further. Mrs J wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
rejection of the car was a fair resolution to Mrs Js complaint but the offer hadnt 
taken the recent usage of the car into consideration and interest hadnt been applied 
to the deposit. He recommended that Nissan Finance should end the agreement, 
collect the car and refund Mrs Js deposit (with interest) but he didnt consider that it 
should pay her any further compensation for the inconvenience that shes been 
caused. He said that Nissan Finance was entitled to retain all payments made on the 
agreement by Mrs J because shed covered 25,123 miles in 20 months and it was 
only fair that she should pay for her usage of the car. He also said that Nissan 
Finance should appraise the car at the point of collection and any damage charges 
should be invoiced to Mrs J separately.
Nissan Finance has accepted those recommendations but Mrs J has asked for her 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in summary, that its not 
reasonable for Nissan Finance to retain all of her monthly payments as it took a 
number of months for it to conclude the rejection of the car and to send information 
regarding the refund or replacement options - and she wasnt offered a suitable 
courtesy car so she had to continue to use the car. Shes described some of the 
inconvenience that shes been caused and says that this has been a very stressful 
and upsetting situation.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Nissan Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs J. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mrs J was nearly two and a half years old, had been driven for 33,201 miles and had 
a price of £15,700. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.
There were clearly some issues with the car after it was supplied to Mrs J. The dealer 
repaired the car but the issues continued and it agreed that Mrs J could reject it. 
Nissan Finance has also agreed that Mrs J should be able to reject the car. As both 
the dealer and Nissan Finance have accepted that Mrs J can reject the car, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs J and that 
rejection of the car is a fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances. I find 
that Nissan Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected from Mrs J. If theres damage to the car when its collected from Mrs J 
that is more than fair wear and tear and for which she would be liable under the 
agreement Nissan Finance may choose to charge her for that damage. I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable at this time for it to charge Mrs J the 
damage charge of £104.90 that was applied by the dealer.
The price of the car was £15,700 and the hire purchase agreement shows that Mrs J 
paid a deposit of £6,280. Nissan Finance has agreed to refund that deposit, with 
interest, to Mrs J and I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
The cars mileage when it was supplied to Mrs J in October 2019 was 33,201 and 
she told our investigator before he issued his recommendations in June 2021 that the 
cars mileage was 58,324  so in about 20 months shes been able to use the car to 
drive more than 25,000 miles. Mrs J says that she had to continue to use the car 
because of the time that it took for the rejection offer to be made to her and because 
she wasnt provided with an alternative car. But she has continued to use the car and 
I consider that its fair and reasonable that she should pay for the use that shes had 
from the car. The dealer offered to refund to her one monthly payment of £134.42 
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Nissan Finance to refund £134.42 
to her  but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to refund any of the other monthly payments that 
shes made under the agreement. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep 
them as payment for the use that shes had from the car.
Mrs J has described the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused by these 
events. I sympathise with her for the issues that shes had with the car and the 
distress and inconvenience that shes described. I dont consider that Nissan 
Finances response to her complaint was fair or reasonable which has contributed to 
the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Nissan Finance to also pay her £250 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs J or Nissan Finance, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Both Nissan Finance and Mrs J have 
accepted my provisional decision but Mrs J says that:
the deposit paid was £6,402 - £200 was an initial holding deposit and then £6,202 
was paid prior to collection and signing of the agreement for the car;
she would like to be able to obtain an independent quote for any repair work that is 
considered beyond wear and tear by the independent assessor along with a costing 
from Nissan Finance so that she can decide who to have the repair work carried out 
by, rather than being invoiced by Nissan Finance; and
she requests a copy certificate from Nissan Finance for HMRC tax deduction on the 
interest payment.Nissan Finance says that its discussed the deposit amount with both the manufacturer and 
the dealer and has been unable to clarify why the deposit amount is different but, to ensure 
that Mrs J isnt out of pocket, it will refund £6,402 as the deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nissan Finance has confirmed that Mrs J paid a deposit of £6,402 in total and has agreed to 
refund that amount to her with interest. Other than that, as both Mrs J and Nissan Finance 
have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to change the findings that are set 
out above or the outcome that was set out in my provisional decision.
The dealer has said that an inspection of the car identified a small element of damage not 
considered to be fair wear and tear so it recommended that £104.90 should be deducted 
from the payment to be made to Mrs J for the damage to the car. Our investigator didnt 
agree that £104.90 should be deducted but Mrs J is required to return the car to Nissan 
Finance in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement  and if theres 
damage to the car (other than the issues that have caused it not to have been of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to her) which is reasonably considered to be more than fair 
wear and tear, Nissan Finance may charge her for that damage.
It's Mrs Js responsibility to return the car in an acceptable condition and I dont consider that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Nissan Finance to inspect the car before it is 
collected and to then allow Mrs J to obtain an independent quote for any required repair 
work. I consider that Mrs J should choose whether or not to have any damage repaired 
before the car is collected from her. If she doesnt agree with any damage charges that are 
then made by Nissan Finance she should complain to it about the charges. If shes not 
satisfied with its response she may then be able to make a separate complaint to this service 
about those charges.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Nissan Finance to take 
the actions that were set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Nissan Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs J.
2. Refund to Mrs J the deposit of £6,402 that she paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on the deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4. Refund to Mrs J £134.42 - which is the one monthly payment under the agreement 
that she was offered by the dealer.
5. Pay £250 to Mrs J to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.HM Revenue & Customs requires Nissan Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. Mrs J has asked to be provided with a certificate showing how much 
tax Nissan Finance so it should provide her with that certificate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman