DRN-4013082
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the amount Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd paid in settlement of his 
motor insurance claim.
Mr H is represented by Mr G, for ease, Ive referred to comments made by Mr G as being 
made by Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident and made a claim on his car insurance policy. Accredited 
deemed the van a total loss and decided to settle the claim by paying its market value. It 
initially valued Mr Hs van at £13,496 but Mr H thought it was too low, and after further 
discussions it increased its valuation to £13,953.66.
Mr H didnt accept its offer and complained, but Accredited didnt change its position. Mr H 
brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. After  
carrying out his own research using the vehicle valuation guides, he thought Accredited 
valued the car fairly.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says the evidence provided shows the market value of the van is in excess of the guide 
values. He says he is unable to replace his van with the offer Accredited made, and it 
impacts his ability to work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached for similar reasons and 
Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear of the accident Mr H was involved in. Having reviewed the claims file, I note 
this was a particularly severe and traumatic incident. I also note Mr H sustained extensive 
injuries as a result and I wish him well as he recovers. I understand dealing with a claim can 
be difficult especially after what Mr H experienced, but I must put aside my feelings of 
sympathy and consider this complaint impartially. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Hs policy, Accredited must pay him the market value of the 
van.
The policy defines market value as: 
The cost of replacing the Vehicle with another Vehicle of the same make, model and 
specification and of a similar age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss 
by reference to vehicle value websites and publications (including but not limited to Glasses 
Guide) and, where applicable, a suitably qualified independent motor engineer.
Mr H says in the current market he couldnt replace his van for the amount Accredited paid 
him. The valuation of a used vehicle isnt an exact science and its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a vehicle. And I 
dont find it unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on 
national research on likely selling prices of similar vehicles with similar age and mileage for 
sale at the time of loss. 
We dont tend to find adverts as reliable as the motor guides and the reason for this is 
because it is difficult to know what a vehicle will eventually sell for from the advert; and 
advertised prices can vary widely  and variations, such as age and mileage, can 
significantly impact the eventual price it is sold for. There may be occasions where we do 
look at adverts and this can be where we arent able to get a result from the guides, for 
example where the vehicle is old or a rare model. I dont think this was the case here. 
Accredited said it consulted three valuation guides which produced the following values, 
£13,500, £13,746, and £14,615. Our investigator also looked at the guides and he consulted 
a fourth guide which valued the van at £8,045. This figure is out of line with the other guide 
prices Ive seen, so I think its reasonable to exclude it from calculations. 
Mr H doesnt think it offer fairly reflects the vans current market value and provided 
Accredited two examples of similar vans on sale. I carefully reviewed both adverts, one was 
priced £19,500 but was of a higher specification and the other which is closer in specification 
to Mr Hs car was priced at £14,495. The vehicle most similar to Mr Hs falls within the range 
of prices produced by the guides. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Accredited to rely on 
the guides in its valuation of Mr Hs car. 
Accredited says it paid Mr H the average of the three guides it looked at. I think it has taken 
reasonable steps to reach a fair valuation in this case. We usually find a fair valuation would 
fall within the range of figures given by the guides. Its offer of £13,953.66 falls within the 
range of values Ive seen. I know this isnt the answer Mr H hoped for, but Im satisfied 
Accrediteds offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons mention, I have decided I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman