DRN-3953656
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the repairs to her car following a claim she made to Admiral 
(Gibraltar) Limited on her motor insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but Admiral is the underwriter of this 
policy i.e. the insurer. It is therefore responsible for it, and any references to Admiral includes 
the actions of the companies acting on its behalf.
Mr and Mrs S have brought the complaint jointly. Mrs S is the main policyholder and the 
owner of the car, so for ease, Ill refer to comments made by Mr S as being made by Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S was involved in an accident where her car was hit from behind while stationery. Mrs S 
says following the accident the car wouldnt start and had to be towed. She made a claim on 
her policy and Admiral arranged for the car to be inspected at an approved garage. The 
garage said the issue with the car not starting was down to a non-standard immobiliser and 
wasnt accident related, therefore it only carried out the repairs to the rear bumper. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the garage and had the car inspected at a manufacturer dealership. 
She said the dealership didnt identify issues with the immobiliser, but Admirals in-house 
engineer still didnt think the issues the dealership identified were accident related. It said the 
area of damage from the accident, did not align with mechanical failings in the engine. It also 
said that due to the age and mileage of the car the issues were more likely to have been due 
to general wear and tear.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service and said the mechanical issues were clearly 
caused by the accident. She said she had to scrap the car and would like Admiral to cover 
the write off value of the car.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the manufacturer 
dealership didnt comment on whether the mechanical issues were related to the accident. 
Our investigator also said he couldnt suggest Admiral should pay for the repairs, because 
he didnt have an expert opinion which states that the minor rear impact of the accident is 
the principal reason why the car wouldnt start. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said Admiral didnt say it needed 
commentary from the dealership on whether the issues could be related to the accident. Mrs 
S also says the car had never failed to start before the accident and it had never failed an 
MOT test. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to reach the same outcome as our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive taken everything she said into consideration, but I 
havent addressed all the points she raised here. Instead, Ive focused on explaining what is 
key to the decision Ive reached. 
The terms and conditions of the policy state: 
We will not pay: 
4. for wear and tear
5. for pre-accident damage or damage unrelated to the current loss.
6. for any loss or damage caused by mechanical, electrical, electronic, cyber incident, 
computer failure, breakdown, breakage or malfunction.
This means Admiral is only responsible for repairing damage caused by the accident. Its 
approved repairers already carried out the repair work to the rear bumper of the car. Admiral 
says the mechanical issues that caused Mrs Ss car to stop working werent accident related. 
So, Ive thought about whether it was fair for it not to take responsibility for fixing the engine 
problem. 
Admirals garage inspected the car and determined that the damage it sustained in the 
accident was light, and I find what they said reasonable. The photographs of the car 
following the accident show a dent on one side of the rear bumper, and it appears to me that 
the impact from the accident was relatively minor.
The garage also said the car wouldnt start because of a problem with a non-standard 
immobiliser, Admirals in-house engineer reviewed the report and didnt think this issue could 
be attributed to the accident. Mrs S disputed this, she says the car didnt have a non-
standard immobiliser fitted, but I dont think whether the car had a non-standard immobiliser 
fitted changes things, because Im not persuaded it was the reason the car stopped working. 
Following their inspection of Mrs Ss car, the dealership gives different reasons for the car 
not starting. The suggest that further investigation was required to ensure other components 
in the engine werent damaged. However, they determined there were issues with the 
camshaft and chain guides, as I understand it, these are parts within the engine of the car. 
Having reviewed the dealerships comments, I find their findings more persuasive than the 
repair garages. 
Admirals notes show it said it would investigate further if the dealership found the problem 
with the car wasnt related to a non-standard immobiliser, but I dont think that meant it would 
cover the cost of the repairs. I would expect it to consider whether the mechanical issues the 
dealership identified could have been caused in the incident, and Im satisfied it did so.
The dealerships report doesnt indicate whether the damage to the engine was caused by 
the accident. Admirals in-house engineer reviewed the comments from the dealership and 
concluded that the engine issue was unrelated to the minor rear impact from the incident. 
The engineer suggested it was down to mechanical wear and tear on Mrs Ss car due to its 
high mileage.
Mrs Ss car was around 10 years old and had over 100,000 miles on its odometer. Admirals 
explanation that it could be due to wear and tear doesnt seem entirely unreasonable given 
the age and mileage of the car. The impact was to the rear of the car and considering the light damage, I dont think its unreasonable for it to conclude the engine damage was 
unrelated to the accident.
I accept Mrs S says the car had been working and wouldnt start after the accident. But I 
dont think that automatically means Admiral must pay the claim. Mrs S thinks its more 
probable the accident caused the mechanical failure and I can understand her thinking here. 
But without evidence to the contrary, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to rely on its 
in-house engineers expert opinion.
All things considered, Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in declining to cover 
the cost of repairing the engine as part of the claim. I understand Mrs S has since scrapped 
the car, but I dont think Admiral needs to pay her its write off value.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman