DRN-3540045
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way esure Insurance Limited has handled a subsidence claim 
shes made on her buildings insurance policy following damage to her porch.
What happened
References I make to esure include its agents and representatives unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here. 
Ms H noticed some cracking in her porch and reported it to esure. It accepted the 
claim and appointed a specialist to manage it and the remedial work.
An initial scope of works (SOW) was agreed which included underpinning the porch. 
Subsequently, esure decided underpinning wasnt possible and a new SOW was 
required. This caused delays and some confusion.
Ms H was unhappy about the new SOW, saying she thought it wouldnt provide the 
same level of protection from future subsidence. And she wasnt happy about the 
time taken for the work to be completed and the impact on her work and holiday 
arrangements.
esure apologised for the confusion around the amended SOW and the delays and 
paid Ms H £400 compensation including a £50 contribution for the increased power 
usage by the contractors on site. It said it would consider a further payment for the 
increased power on production of supporting evidence.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and upheld the complaint, saying esure 
should pay Ms H an additional £250 in recognition of the delays and the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused her.
esure didnt respond to the Investigators recommendations so the case has come to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator has detailed the timeline to this claim so I dont propose to repeat that here.
Industry rules require esure to handle claims promptly and fairly. And where repairs take 
place wed expect those to be lasting and effective. Ive thought about that when looking at 
this complaint while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The change to the SOW
Its not uncommon in insurance claims for the nature of repairs to have to be 
amended as further information about the situation emerges. In this case, esure 
relied on the professional opinion of its expert in deciding it wasnt possible to 
underpin the porch and an alternative solution would be required.
Ive not seen any opposing expert opinion which contradicts this view. So, while I 
accept esures explanations around this issue were poor and led to Ms H being 
uncertain about its motivation for changing the SOW, I think esure acted fairly when it 
relied on the opinion of its expert to decide on the new approach.
As Ive mentioned before, Id expect esure to undertake repairs that are lasting and 
effective so if its approach doesnt meet this standard Id expect it to revisit the 
repairs and provide an alternative solution that does. And of course, Ms H would be 
free to make a further complaint in these circumstances.
Claim handling 
Subsidence inevitably causes a significant degree of inconvenience to homeowners 
 particularly if they wish to be present when repairs are being undertaken - and 
claims relating to them often take time.
In this case, it was only when the first repairs were underway that it become clear an 
alternative approach would be required to complete them. Ive not seen anything 
which persuades me esure could have predicted this or avoided this delay.
That said, there was a significant delay before the second repairs started, some 
eleven months after the first. I acknowledge Ms H had to make arrangements to take 
time off work and this had an impact, but esure hasnt provided a persuasive 
explanation for why the delay was as long as it was. So I do hold esure responsible 
for some of the delays caused across the life of the claim.
I can see from the file, Ms H found the delays stressful to deal with and the 
uncertainty around the starting dates of the repairs and likely timescales involved 
very inconvenient.
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding on the award esure should make.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think esure has done enough to recognise the 
impact on Ms H. Its so far paid her £400, broken down as £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience and an additional £50 as a contribution to the increased power usage.
Im going to direct esure to pay an additional £250 to Ms H in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience its caused her through its poor handling and delays.
Id also expect esure to consider a further payment to Ms H for any increased power usage 
as a result of its contractors use of her electricity on receipt of appropriate bills and 
supporting evidence.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct esure to pay Ms H £250 (in 
addition to the amount its already paid her).esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman