DRN-3703039
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) submitted a chargeback (on his behalf) in
respect of a transaction he didnt dispute, and this caused him to suffer a loss, distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
On 2 December 2021 Mr M purchased a game from a company that I will call O, playable
via an account he held with it. The cost of the game was 377.99 TRY.
On 2 December 2021 Mr Ms account with Revolut was debited with 377.99 TRY in respect
of his purchase (transaction 1).
On 3 December 2021 Mr Ms account with Revolut was debited with £20.95 in respect of his
purchase (transaction 2).
On, or shortly after, 3 December 2021 Mr M contacted O who confirmed to him that it had
charged him only once for his purchase, this being 377.99 TRY (transaction 1) on
2 December 2021. On being advised of this Mr M confirmed to O that he would request
Revolut raise a chargeback (on his behalf) in respect of the second charge debited to his
account of £20.95 (transaction 2) on 3 December 2021.
On 5 December 2021 Mr M says he asked Revolut to raise a chargeback (on his behalf) in
respect of transaction 2. However, Revolut says Mr M asked it to raise chargebacks (on his
behalf) in respect of both transactions.
On 5 December 2021 Revolut says it created two chargeback requests for submission to O
(the merchant) in due course.
On 20 December 2021 Revolut says Mr M advised it that he only wanted a chargeback
raised (on his behalf) in respect of transaction 2. And on being advised of this it cancelled
the pending chargeback request in respect of transaction 1 and submitted the pending
chargeback request in respect of transaction 2.
On 22 December 2021 Mr M says he received an email from O to say that his account had
been closed due to it having received a chargeback request (from Revolut).
In January 2022 Mr M complained to our service about how Revolut had handled his
chargeback request and that request had caused him a loss, distress and inconvenience for
which he would like to be fairly and reasonably compensated for.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld and that Revolut should pay Mr M £100 in compensation and provide him
with an open letter that he could share with O explaining that he wasnt at fault for the
incorrect chargeback being raised, or for two chargebacks being raised instead of one.
Mr M accepted the investigators view, but Revolut didnt. Revolut said it had only submitted
one chargeback request (on Mr Ms behalf) and the correct one so it shouldnt be held
responsible for the loss, distress and inconvenience Mr M says he has been caused.
The investigator considered Revoluts response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change
his mind. Therefore, Mr Ms complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties have
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted Im persuaded that:
Mr Ms account was debited twice for the same purchase.
Mr M took steps to establish with O what it had, or might have, done in respect of his
purchase and O confirmed to him that it had only submitted one payment request to
Revolut, this being for 377.99 TRY (transaction 1) on 2 December 2021.
Because what O had told Mr M, he acted entirely reasonably in requesting that
Revolut raise a chargeback on his behalf in respect of transaction 2.
Mr M only ever asked Revolut to raise one chargeback on his behalf, not two, and
this was in respect of transaction 2.
There is no persuasive evidence that Mr M ever asked Revolut to raise two
chargebacks (on his behalf).
Revoluts communications with Mr M between 5 and 19 December 2021 were both
confusing and misleading. This included advising Mr M that it was treating his
request as being for two chargebacks (instead of one) and that his account with it
was in a negative balance (when it could and should have been apparent as to why
this was the case).
Given what I say above, I can confirm that Im satisfied that the service provided by Revolut
fell below the standard Mr M was entitled to receive and for that he should be fairly and
reasonably compensated. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut ever submitted a
chargeback in respect of transaction 1 as Mr M believes or understands.Revolut has provided our service with system notes, which I summarise below:
Transaction 1  377.99 TRY
Date Action
5 December 2021 Chargeback request from Mr M noted
5 December 2021 Chargeback request created (pending submission to merchant)
20 December 2021 Chargeback changed from created (pending submission to  
merchant) to cancelled
Transaction 2  £20.95
Date Action
5 December 2021 Chargeback request from Mr M noted
5 December 2021 Chargeback request created (pending submission to merchant)
20 December 2021 Chargeback changed from created (pending submission to  
merchant) to disputed (with merchant)
20 December 2021 £21.16 temporarily credited to Mr Ms account pending outcome of
dispute raised (with merchant)
1 February 2022 Chargeback changed from disputed (with merchant) to won
1 February 2022 £21.16 credit to Mr Ms account on 20 December 2021 changed 
from temporary to permanent
Now I appreciate, given the timing of Os email saying his account had been closed, why
Mr M believes or understands that an incorrect chargeback was raised, or that two
chargebacks were raised instead of one. But Im not persuaded that this was the case and
Revolut, as it has submitted to our service, only ever submitted one chargeback request (on
Mr Ms behalf) and this was the correct one (transaction 2). And because of my view in this
respect Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to hold Revolut responsible for Os
decision to close Mr Ms account.
Given what I say above, what I now need to decide is what constitutes fair and reasonable
compensation for Revolut to have to pay Mr M.
Taking everything into account, I think for its poor service Revolut should have to pay Mr M
£50, but it need do nothing more (and that includes writing an open letter for Mr M to be able
to share with O).
Mr M responded to my provisional findings to say, in summary, that he disagreed that 
Revolut only ever raised one chargeback (on his behalf) and that it should pay him £100 
compensation as recommended by the investigator and which he had accepted.
Revolut didnt respond to my provisional findings by the date given for a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I said in my provisional decision I can understand why Mr M believes that Revolut 
submitted two chargebacks on his behalf rather than one. But having considered Revoluts 
system notes again (which Im satisfied can be relied upon as being an accurate reflection of 
what happened), I remain of the view that on balance Revolut only raised one chargeback 
and that was the one Mr M wanted raising.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I accept that O confirmed to Mr M that it had 
only requested payment of 377.99 TRY from Revolut and not payment of 377.99 TRY and 
£20.95. I also accept that O closed Mr Ms account citing the reason that it had received a 
chargeback request (from Revolut). 
But given that O only confirmed to Mr M it had received a chargeback (from Revolut), not 
two, it didnt confirm the amount of the chargeback raised (by Revolut) and what I say above 
regarding Revolut raising only one chargeback, and the chargeback Mr M wanted raising, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings on this point. And for the avoidance of 
doubt, my findings on this point is that on balance Revolut only raised one chargeback and 
that was the one Mr M wanted raising.
I accept that the service Mr M received from Revolut was poor. But having considered this 
level of service again I can confirm that I remain of the view that Revolut need only 
compensate Mr M £50, not £100.
Given what I say above and given that Revolut didnt respond to my provisional findings (by 
the date I gave for a response) I can confirm that I see no good reason to depart from those 
findings and I now confirm them as final.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd must pay Mr M £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman