DRN-2944928
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the service provided by Pacific Financial Claims Ltd (trading as 
Professional Reclaim Services) (PRS) when dealing with her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. 
What happened
Mrs J says she instructed PRS to represent her making PPI claims many years ago. In 2016 
she received a phone call from a PRS representative telling her that none of her claims had 
been successful, and that her file would be closed. 
On 12 February 2021 Mrs J received an invoice from PRS saying that lender S are ready to 
make an offer with regards to your PPI claim; you will receive a letter with an offer. The 
letter also informed Mrs J that shed need to pay PRS their success fee invoice. 
On 16 February Mrs J complained to PRS using the contact email address she found on 
their website. She explained I took out this claim in 2016 and was told after my claim was 
rejected in 2016 by all providers my case had been closed. So now questioning why you 
have contacted me demanding payment I have tried to contact you on the number stated 
on the invoice letterThis number is no longer in service. I'm not willing to make payment 
until I have correct addresses and contact numbers. I also would like to have a copy of my 
contract with yourself and any recording or paperwork that was sent on my behalf. 
A few weeks later Mrs J received approximately £400 compensation for her PPI claim from 
lender S.  
On 19 April Mrs J received a text message from PRS saying her invoice for £243.70 
remained outstanding. She later received a phone call from a PRS representative about the 
outstanding payment. Mrs J was unhappy with the call, and called the ombudsman service 
while the call with the PRS representative remained open on another line on speakerphone. 
During this call Mrs J explained that shed worked in financial services and has always been 
wary of scams, and making payments to unverified contacts. She said the number on the 
invoice demand letter was different to the number on PRS website. She also explained that 
shed been told in 2016 that PRS were no longer acting for her so she was surprised by the 
unexpected contact in 2021. 
Mrs J confirmed she had received payment from lender S, and that she was willing to make 
payment for PRS service, but she wanted to see a copy of her contract to verify the fees. 
She also requested that the invoice from PRS be sent to her by post, and that they send a  
copy of the recording from 2016 when she was told her file had been closed. 
The PRS call handlers response included:
Youre making all these demands
Youre trying to get away with paying
All you do is talk over me, dont let me explain, and youre trying to get away with not 
paying the bill- simple. Thats the way I see it.
Since you [answered the] phone youve just been going on and on
Now you want to speak to a manager
Youre running away
Ive not heard such a big lie in my life before
Mrs J explained her children were present during the call. The call handler went on to say I 
can guarantee you now you will pay every single penny owed to us plus interest plus any 
extra charges, remember my name its [name of call handler], ok. 
PRS didnt respond to Mrs Js complaint of 16 February, and Mrs J referred her complaint to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
On 26 April the ombudsman service requested PRS business file using the email address 
provided by PRS as their contact email.
On 2 June the ombudsman service attempted to contact PRS by phone using the telephone 
number provided by PRS. 
On the same day, a different number for PRS was attempted. The call was answered by a 
PRS representative. The PRS representative was told that wed requested the business file 
following a complaint wed received from one of their customers, but no response had been 
received. The PRS call handler confirmed the email address to re-send the business file 
request to. The same day, a further business file request was sent to the email address 
provided by the PRS representative.
On 16 June as their business file had not been received, a reminder was sent to PRS 
informing them Please can the requested information be provided by [return date]. If I don't 
hear from you by this date I may reach a view based on the information provided so far. And 
without confirmation that the payment details are genuine I may draw adverse inferences 
where necessary.
On 23 June the investigator shared their findings with Mrs J and PRS. The investigator found 
that Mrs Js request for additional information before paying PRS invoice was fair. The 
investigator said PRS should cancel their invoice for £243.70 in settlement of the complaint.
PRS didnt respond to the investigators findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Although Im in agreement with the investigators recommended compensation for putting 
things right, my reasoning and direction to PRS is slightly different to the outcome reached 
by the investigator. Given PRS lack of co-operation, and the compensation amount being 
unaffected, I didnt think it was fair to delay the complaint any longer by issuing a provisional 
decision. So Ive set out my reasons for upholding the complaint through this final decision. I think Mrs Js request for her contract was reasonable. She hadnt heard from PRS for many 
years and believed their involvement with her claims had ended. Its reasonable that shed 
want to check her signed contract to verify what success fees had been agreed before 
paying PRS their invoice. She also requested confirmation of the last contact PRS had had 
with her in 2016, to verify what shed been told about her file being closed. As PRS had told 
Mrs J that they were her appointed representative, I think it was fair for Mrs J to make these 
requests to them. 
I wouldve expected PRS to have responded to Mrs Js complaint, and provided her with the 
information requested. If there was any reason that the information wasnt available, this 
shouldve been explained at the time. 
When making her concerns known to PRS, during the call of 19 April 2021, the PRS 
representatives language was unprofessional, and behaviour unhelpful. It was clear that Mrs 
J was upset, and the PRS representative did little to provide any support or advise of 
practical next steps. Instead, the PRS representative responded with language such as 
Youre trying to get away with paying, Youre running away and Ive not heard such a big 
lie in my life before. I can appreciate how this wouldve left Mrs J feeling frustrated and 
upset. 
Mrs J has confirmed that she received payment from lender S. Given the invoice letter dated 
12 February 2021 referred to lender S, and payment was made by lender S not long after 
this letter was sent, on balance, Im persuaded its likely that the successful claim was 
triggered by PRS involvement. This would support how they became aware of the 
successful claim, and amount. 
Although I accept that on balance Mrs J had a contract with PRS for carrying out PPI claims 
on her behalf, in the absence of the terms and conditions signed by Mrs J at the point that 
she instructed them, I cant say what success fee had been agreed. Mrs J feels strongly that 
it was around 25%, and the amount being claimed by PRS equates to more than this. 
Its not been possible to verify what amount Mrs J owes PRS, because PRS havent 
provided any evidence in support of their position on this complaint. But I think fair 
compensation should recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mrs J by PRS poor 
dealings with her. This includes the lack of response to her requests for information, the 
unprofessional behaviour towards Mrs J during the call of 19 April, and the continued 
demands for payment without engaging with Mrs Js requests for clarification. 
In recognition of the lack of clarity in what Mrs J owes PRS, I think the cancellation of the 
invoice broadly reflects the compensation wed award for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs J by PRS poor handling of her claim. So although Ive determined that a success fee is 
likely owed, as theres no way of verifying this amount, I think a fair resolution is for the 
invoice to be cancelled at no cost to Mrs J. 
The invoice amount of £243.70 is broadly what I wouldve recommended PRS pay Mrs J for 
their poor handling of her claim- and in particular when requesting their success fee invoice 
to be paid. In considering a fair resolution for this claim, I think PRS should cancel their 
outstanding invoice, and any outstanding contracts with Mrs J, at no cost to her. This reflects 
the breakdown in relationship between Mrs J and PRS. 
Putting things rightPacific Financial Claims Ltd (trading as Professional Reclaim Services) must cancel their 
outstanding invoice for £243.70, and any outstanding contracts with Mrs J, at no cost to her.
  
My final decision 
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Pacific Financial Claims Ltd (trading as Professional Reclaim Services) must follow my 
directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman