DRN-3278416
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc have unfairly registered a default against her 
credit file.
What happened
Mrs F had a credit card with Sainsburys. She had used this card to transfer balances on a 
promotional interest rate. Mrs F had a direct debit returned in September and October 2019, 
as she didnt have enough money to cover the direct debit in her bank account. The account 
defaulted in January 2020. Mrs F paid the outstanding balance in October 2020.
Mrs F complained to Sainsburys and she said she had never received any correspondence 
theyd sent her about the account defaulting. She explained she was in the process of 
remortgaging, but the default Sainsburys registered against her meant she was paying a 
higher monthly payment than she could pay if she was able to remortgage. 
Sainsburys partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint. They said that they had made no error in 
registering the default, as they didnt receive the required payments. Sainsburys said that 
while investigating her complaint, they realised that her promotional offer had been removed 
from the account in June 2019, as the balance transfer requests which were processed 
caused Mrs F to exceed her credit limit. Sainsburys said to put this right they would credit 
her account with £247.70 (for interest charged) and overlimit charges of £72.
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. She explained to our investigator at the time she 
was due to set up a direct debit on the account, she suffered a traumatic experience and she 
detailed her health problems around this time. She also said that the default was a 
consequence of Sainsburys allowing her to go over her credit limit.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He explained that Sainsburys had a duty to 
accurately report her payment history to the credit reference agencies and the default had 
been registered in line with the terms and the conditions of the account. He also said that 
Mrs F had last successfully viewed a statement online on 31 October 2019, so it was 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs F ought to be aware of the status of her account at this 
stage and that Sainsburys hadnt been receiving payments from her. 
Our investigator also said he could see that Mrs F had been sent postal correspondence 
about the arrears and the default by Sainsburys. He said that Mrs F had taken steps to clear 
the arrears on 31 January 2020, so it would be reasonable to conclude she was aware of her 
account status at this point, however, no further payments were made until October 2020, 
when Mrs F paid the outstanding balance in full. Mrs F asked for an Ombudsman to review 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill start by saying that its clear to me what a difficult time Mrs F has been through 
and Ive read all that shes said about her circumstances and health situation. Shes clearly 
trying to be proactive in dealing with her finances during a very tough time.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. A notice of default was issued to Mrs Fs registered address on 3 January 2020, as
it had been more than three months since Sainsburys received a payment from her. The 
letter confirmed that further action would be taken (a default) if Mrs J did not pay the arrears 
before 31 January 2020. As Mrs J didnt clear her arrears before 31 January 2020, 
Sainsburys had a duty to register a default and they did. 
Ive thought about what Mrs J has said about her being registered for online correspondence 
and she hadnt received the letters Sainsburys had sent her. But Sainsburys are required 
by the regulator to send certain correspondence  such as a notice of default  by post, even 
if a customers preference may be different. As the letters were addressed to Mrs Js 
registered address, then I cant hold Sainsburys responsible for any issues with the postal 
system. But I do think its likely that Mrs J did receive the notice of default as she made the 
payment to clear her arrears on 31 January 2020, although I understand Mrs J was going 
through a lot at the time, so she may not be able to recall this.
Sainsburys also made Mrs Js statement available online. As our investigator has explained, 
Sainsburys have provided our service details of Mrs Js online access, and I can see Mrs J 
signed into her account several times between 31 October- 31 December 2019, just before 
the default notice had been sent, so I would expect her to realise that no payments had been 
made to her account. 
As Sainsburys also send an email to Mrs J when her statement is ready to view online, it 
would be her responsibility to ensure that her payments were being made and to view her 
statements. Mrs J would have been aware if she viewed her October 2019 that her direct 
debit amount was showing as £0 (whereas her previous statements had shown a figure for 
the direct debit payment) and her September and October 2019 statements showed the 
direct debit was reversed. This resulted in the direct debit being cancelled.
Ive then considered what Mrs J has said regarding Sainsburys allowing her to go over her 
credit limit contributing to the default. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this as Mrs J went 
over her credit limit in June 2019 and her direct debit was paid in July and August 2019. So I 
cant say exceeding her credit limit caused this problem when she made two payments after 
exceeding her credit limit. No payment had been made after August 2019 until January 2020 
and then October 2020. 
So while Sainsburys say theyve credited Mrs Js account with £247.70 interest charged and 
overlimit charges of £72, as a result of going over her credit limit, Mrs J would need to 
ensure at least her monthly minimum payment was made. As she didnt make a payment for 
a substantial period of time, this is why the default was registered, not because her account 
was over the credit limit after balances had been transferred.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair for the default to stand, especially as Mrs J was 
late with the payment by only one day. If Mrs J had cleared her arrears a day late and then 
restarted her payments the following month, then I would be persuaded that Sainsburys 
should have showed Mrs J forbearance and not register the default  even though strictly 
speaking they would have been entitled to register the default when Mrs J didnt make a 
payment by the deadline given. 
But Ive also had to consider the fact that Mrs J didnt make another payment after she 
cleared her arrears in January 2020 until October 2020. This was after nearly nine months of non-payment. Sainsburys also sent Mrs F a notice of sums in arrears on 24 February 2020 
and it was Mrs Js responsibility to check her statements online each month to ensure the 
payments were being made. So in order for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to see that 
Sainsburys have made an error by registering the default. But as Mrs J didnt make a 
payment for nearly nine months and Sainsburys were entitled to register a default after three 
months, Im unable to ask Sainsburys to remove the default from her credit file. So it follows, 
I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman