DRN-2824332
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
 Miss H was given a fixed term loan by Everyday Loans in a meeting, in one of its branches. 
The details of this is given below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments
04/06/2019 36 £5500 £351.58
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He thought Everyday Loans had been 
wrong to provide Miss H with the loan. He concluded that Everyday Loans didnt make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. Everyday Loans didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to 
resolve the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law.
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Hs complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
As the lender, Everyday Loans should have taken steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss 
H irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss H.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the 
loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
joint financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Miss H.
Everyday Loans on the occasion it lent to Miss H, in a meeting, asked for information about 
her income and expenditure. It also says it carried out a credit check and used bank 
statements to verify what Miss H was saying.
Everyday Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Miss H had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about what it 
says it did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is 
because, on balance, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this loan 
and I will explain why.
Everyday Loans was aware from the credit check it had acquired (and supplied to our 
service) that Miss H had credit data that should have shown it that she wouldnt have been in 
a position to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Miss H had combined unsecured debt of around £12,000. On her bank statements, that 
Everyday Loans had in front of it, she had a further 3 open short-term loans that were not 
registered on the credit file. I acknowledge Everyday Loans comment that Miss Hs loan was 
for consolidation purposes, but I can see this was for around £3500 of Miss Hs overall 
unsecured debt at that time, leaving a larger proportion still for her to repay alongside the 
repayments for this loan. I dont think this debt consolidation improved her finances in any 
meaningful way and she would still have had loans, credit cards and a short-term loan to pay 
alongside an overdraft and this loan. It is clear to me when I see how much she would need 
to repay in credit commitments at this point, along with the amount borrowed from Everyday 
loans and how long the loan was for, that the repayments were not sustainable.
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Something which I think was the case here with Miss 
H when she took out this loan with Everyday Loans.
I think on balance Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Miss H was 
finding it difficult to repay her existing credit commitments. It was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms provided. I think in these 
particular circumstances (from the adverse credit information on her report); Everyday Loans 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her.
So, I am upholding this complaint and direct Everyday Loans to put things right.
 
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has been indebted with interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Miss 
H has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Treat Miss H fairly, If there is a balance remaining for Miss H to repay. It should work 
with Miss H to find an affordable payment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited to put things right as I have described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman