DRN-3859832
The complaint
Mr M complains about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) dealt with his 
accounts.
What happened
Mr M says he opened two NS&I accounts in 1991 and in 2022 requested information about 
them. He says based on the information NS&I gave him, he asked it to cash in one of the 
accounts, but both were cashed in. Mr M says NS&I gave him incorrect information about 
the interest rate and had it given correct information, then he would not have closed either 
account. He would like both accounts re-instated and compensation for what took place.
NS&I initially accepted it closed both accounts in error and offered to reinstate the one 
account closed in error. It also paid Mr M £75 compensation for the mistake. NS&I then 
reviewed the complaint and accepts it gave Mr M incorrect information in its letter of May 
2022. It has now offered to re-instate both accounts and has paid a further £50 
compensation.
Mr M had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought NS&I had dealt fairly with 
it by offering to re-instate both accounts and by paying appropriate compensation.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says NS&I gave him incorrect information 
about the interest rate and his account balances as well as the account type. He says he has 
spent some four to five hours on this complaint and that the compensation ought to be 
higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that NS&I has dealt fairly with this complaint by re-instating the 
accounts and by paying appropriate compensation.
There is no dispute here that NS&I made a number of mistakes in dealing with what ought to 
have been a straightforward matter of telling Mr M how much money was in the two 
accounts and what was the interest rate. I accept that NS&I then made a further mistake in 
closing both accounts and that Mr M wouldnt have closed either account if he had been 
given the correct information in May 2022. I have no doubt Mr M has been caused 
inconvenience and frustration.
Im satisfied that NS&I has fairly apologised for what took place and has fairly offered to re-
instate both accounts. Im also satisfied that must have been Mr Ms main intention in 
bringing this complaint. 
The only real issue for me to consider is the compensation offer. I appreciate Mr M questions 
the difference in the amounts of compensation paid. But I think overall the total 
compensation of £125 is fair and reasonable and its the overall amount that is important 
here. I dont think Mr M suffered any real financial loss as the accounts were re-instated and 
have made clear that the main part of the complaint was around those accounts being re-
instated.
Overall, I accept NS&I didnt deal with the issues here as it should have but think its acted 
fairly by re-instating the accounts and by paying an appropriate compensation amount. We 
are not NS&Is regulator and so its not our role to punish it for what took place or to 
comment on the description of the account given in the May 2022 letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman