DRN-4363088
The complaint
Mrs M, Mr T and Mrs T of the T Trust have complained that Vitality Life Limited declined a 
claim for Total and Permanent Disability under the Serious Illness Cover section of an 
Essentials plan and cancelled the policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint and the history of this matter is well known to both parties, so I 
wont repeat it again here in detail. In summary the trust, via Mr T, submitted a claim for 
Total and Permanent Disability. Vitality declined the claim as it said that Mr T didnt meet the 
policy definition. Additionally following several instances where the premium hadnt been 
paid, it cancelled the policy. 
Our investigator felt that the policy should be reinstated, but that Vitality hadnt done 
anything wrong in declining the claim. 
Neither party accepted this. As no resolution has been reached the matter has been passed 
to me to determine as a priority. 
For simplicity I will refer to Mr T rather than to the trust.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and the sensitive medical 
details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive reviewed the complete file and considered the 
representations made after our investigators view. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. For the 
following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
Mr T needs to meet the policy definition in order for his claim to be accepted. It is not 
in dispute that Mr T is suffering from serious ill health. He has clearly expressed his 
opinion that he met the criteria for his claim to be paid. I havent disregarded his view, 
but it is the medical evidence that is of prime importance in determining this 
complaint. This evidence doesnt show that when the claim was declined his 
condition was permanent. Taken together, the evidence of Drs S, H and W, did show 
that there was a small likelihood of recovery. I accept that the situation may change, 
and sadly it may be that Mr Ts health will not recover. But I must base my decision 
on the medical evidence at the time the claims decision was made.
There is a dispute as to the definition that applies, but as the permanence criterion 
wasnt met, the claim wasnt payable under either definition. Accordingly I dont find 
that Vitality treated him unfairly or contrary to the terms of his policy by declining his 
claim when it did.
It is clear why Vitality cancelled Mr Ts policy, having failed 23 premium payment 
plans. It felt that it had no reason to believe that a 24th payment plan would be 
successful. It reached this conclusion not only on the number of failed plans but 
because Mr T had said he couldnt afford the premiums. I understand Vitalitys 
scepticism and dont find it to be misconceived. Nevertheless although payments 
have been made by Mr Ts family members in the past a direct debit has not been set 
up to be paid in this way. I find it would be fair for the policy to be reinstated and a 
final attempt to be made. Mr T will no doubt understand the implications should this 
arrangement not be successful. Premium payments will need to be made to bring the 
policy up to date. Should it be required, Vitality should set up a further payment plan, 
for not longer than 12 months.
Mr T has submitted further evidence and I understand that Vitality is now continuing 
to review his claim. Whilst considering this complaint we have passed information 
between the parties. As this decision is final, it marks the end of our involvement. It 
follows that the parties should now correspond directly. 
There is nothing before me to support Mr Ts contention that Vitality has excessively 
drawn out the claim or otherwise treated him unfairly. 
Vitality has expressed concerns about some of the actions of the trust (for 
completeness I should add the trust has also expressed concerns which I have 
addressed above). Vitality needs time to assess/verify claims and Mr T no doubt 
understands it may need to wait for medical evidence from third parties particularly in 
such a complex claim. It is of no assistance to the trust to continually chase Vitality or 
indeed the physicians from whom Vitality may seek information. This may only delay 
matters or be seen as unwarranted interference. I say this only by way of comment, 
as this service has no power to direct the trustees as to their behaviour either with 
respect to contact with Vitality or on social media. However, Mr T has indicated that 
moving forward the trust will keep contact on social medical more reserved in some 
of its phrasing. As the parties have an ongoing relationship, Im hopeful that this will 
be beneficial to both.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
For the reason given above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint that his claim was 
wrongly declined in April 2023.
I require Vitality to reinstate Mr Ts policy and set up a payment plan for the premium 
payments to be brought up to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M, Mr T and 
Mrs T of the T Trust to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman