DRN-2143683
The complaint
Miss J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has failed to settle her claim made on her 
caravan insurance policy promptly and its actions have caused distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In 2017 Miss Js static caravan was damaged by a paying guest and she made a claim on 
her caravan insurance policy provided by company A and underwritten by Aviva Insurance 
Limited. For ease of reference in my decision, Ill refer to both collectively as Aviva.
When the claim was made, Aviva was provided with a number of quotes for the damaged 
items and the claim was initially accepted with an offer made to settle the claim. This offer 
was made on 21 December 2017 and Aviva asked for signed mandate to be sent on 
completion of the repair work by each contractor so payment could be made to them directly. 
It also offered a cash amount for a number of miscellaneous items which had been 
damaged.
Miss J didnt accept this offer as she had concerns about the contractor appointed. She said 
she was considering moving her caravan from the park it was situated so she could appoint 
a different contractor to complete the repairs.
On 18 January 2018 Aviva said that because new information had been brought to its 
attention, further investigation was required on the claim. It put its offer to settle this on hold 
until this further investigation was completed.
Aviva was advised in March 2018 that Miss J had moved her caravan to another park. In 
May 2018, Avivas loss adjuster asked Miss J for some further information on the police 
report and investigation into the damage and the for additional information on the items 
claimed for. No response was received from Miss J and Aviva closed its file on the claim in 
August 2018.
Miss J brought a complaint to this service about Aviva not considering her claim and in 
January 2019, Aviva agreed the claim should be considered. It asked that Miss J provide 
additional information for some of the items claimed for including repair quotes as Miss J had 
said she wanted to appoint her own contractors to complete the work. It said it needed this to 
consider the claim. 
Miss J provided the payment mandate form to this service at the end of November 2019 and 
asked that this be forwarded on to Aviva for the payment to be made. She also provided a 
copy of an invoice for the blinds claimed for.
In February 2020 Aviva offered a cash settlement for the outstanding items on the claim. 
This included the cost of the dishwasher claimed for and 50% of the amount that had been 
quoted to Aviva for it to repair the damage to the caravan in 2017.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said they felt that Aviva should offer to pay the 
full amount of the quote it originally had provided to complete the repair works on the 
caravan. She said this is what the settlement would have cost Aviva had it repaired the 
caravan directly and so a cash settlement should be in line with this. She also said that she 
felt Aviva had added some unnecessary delays to the claim process and this added to the 
distress and inconvenience that Miss J experienced. To put this right, she asked that it also 
pay £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience.
Aviva agreed to this recommendation.  The contractor who provided this quote in 2017 also 
confirmed hed honour this original quote cost now as the cost of materials hadnt really 
changed  so he was happy this was still a fair price for the repair work.
Miss J didnt accept this. She felt the cost of the quote should have had Value Added Tax 
(VAT) added to it each year, adding 20% to the amount cumulatively. And if this wasnt 
added, she felt it was at least fair that 8% interest was added to the settlement as Aviva 
hadnt paid her claim when it should have. She also felt the award for the distress and 
inconvenience was too low and not reflective of what shes experienced with this claim.
Because Miss J didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for much the same 
reasons, and I think the recommendation she made to put things right is fair. I know Miss J 
will find this disappointing, but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
ICOB 8.1 sets out the expectations on an insurer to be followed when handling a claim. This 
includes making sure the claim is handled promptly and fairly as well as making sure a claim 
isnt unreasonably rejected. 
In this case I think its fair to say that Aviva at the outset acted to do this. When it first offered 
to settle this claim in 2017 it did so with a view to repair the damage  agreeing to pay the 
contractor directly for the work needed to do this. This offer was made soon after the claim 
was made. Miss J didnt accept this and further enquiries led to the offer being placed on 
hold and a delay in the claim being settled. 
The further enquiries were needed to ensure that Aviva didnt unreasonably reject Miss Js 
claim. So while I understand it may have been frustrating and confusing to be told the claim 
was being put on hold, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly here.
The policy terms set out how a claim will be handled and its not uncommon for these to 
explain that an insurer will either, repair, replace, reinstate or pay for the cost of a damaged 
item. The terms of Miss Js policy explain that Aviva will do either of these when settling the 
claim and that it will choose which of these options is best. Any cash settlement will be 
limited to the cost Aviva would incur if it repaired or replaced the item.
Aviva has now offered to pay the amount it was quoted in 2017 to repair the damage as a 
cash settlement to Miss J. This is what it would have cost it to complete the repair at the time 
and I think its fair this is offered as a cash settlement amount.
Im not sure why Miss J believes VAT should be added as an accumulating amount per 
annum from 2017 to now. VAT is applied to goods and services at a rate specified by 
HMRC. It is added when the goods or services are sold and is applied at the rate relative to 
the goods or service at that point in time. It is only paid on the sale and doesnt accumulate. So put simply, Im afraid Miss Js belief of how this works is wrong. I can reassure her there 
is no need for any additional amount to be added for this. 
Even if the quote offered in 2017 had now changed in value, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Aviva to pay the difference. I say this as the terms of the contract make it clear it will only 
pay a cash settlement to the value of  what the claim would have cost Aviva to put right the 
damage. In this case, this was the cost of the quote offered in 2017. So any change in this 
cost wouldnt need to be met by Aviva. Had Miss J not refused its offer to settle the claim in 
2017 with the appointed contractor on the site of where caravan was, it would have settled 
the claim for this amount.
Miss J also questioned whether 8% interest should be added to the claim amount. Im afraid 
this wouldnt be applicable with this claim. Miss J hasnt shown she has paid the repair costs 
herself already  so she hasnt been left out of pocket with the delays in the claim not being 
paid. Because of this, it wouldnt be appropriate to ask Aviva to compensate Miss J for not 
having access to her money from the time she paid for these repairs until it reimbursed her 
with the settlement. So I dont think it needs to add 8% to settlement amount offered.
Miss J has said she doesnt think the amount offered for the delays and distress caused by 
these is fair. She has provided a lot of information to support the impact she feels this has 
had on her and why £200.00 isnt a fair reflection of this.
Its clear Miss J has had some serious health issues over the last few years and Im sorry 
shes had to go through this. But I dont think its fair to say these are a direct cause of 
Avivas actions. Nor do I think its fair to say all the delays in the claim being settled are its 
responsibility. It has for the most part, acted promptly when handling this claim but there 
have been occasions when I think it could have done more.
Aviva originally offered to settle the claim in October 2017 and this offer was declined by 
Miss J. Following this it placed the claim on hold while it made further enquiries which 
resulted in the claim being closed when it hadnt heard back from Miss J in August 2018. 
This service then looked at a separate complaint linked to this claim at the end of 2018 and 
said at the start of 2019, that it was right that Aviva continued to look into and consider the 
claim. At this point it let Miss J know what information it needed to consider the claim as well 
as sending a mandate to organise payment of the items it was able make payment for 
already. This wasnt returned until November 2019 and no further quotes for the repair works 
were received.
I do think when this was returned and Miss J made it clear she was struggling to find new 
quotes for the repair work, a cash settlement should have been offered. And it would have 
been fair, based on what Ive said already, that this settlement was offered for the total repair 
cost Aviva had been quoted in 2017. When it only offered half of this amount it meant Miss J 
felt she had to complain again to resolve this. This has added time to a claim that has 
already been open for a long time and caused delays that werent needed. But I do think its 
only this recent delay which could have been avoided by Aviva. The other breaks in the 
chain of this claim have been through Miss J failing to respond (I appreciate this has at times 
been because of her being unwell) but because of this, Im satisfied the £200.00 
recommended by our investigator is a fair and reasonable amount for the distress and 
inconvenience of this matter.
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva Insurance Limited should settle the remaining parts of Miss Js 
claim under her caravan insurance. It should pay:A cash settlement directly to Miss J for any outstanding items on the claim not yet 
paid  including the value of the repair costs originally quoted in 2017 totalling 
£4,672.68. 
And £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused with how this claim has been 
handled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in favour of Miss J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman