DRN-2744312
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Audi, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Audi were responsible for its quality, but 
if, as is the case here, the fault occurs after six months the onus is on the consumer to 
demonstrate the fault has been present or developing from the beginning. 
Im not persuaded here that Mr W has provided sufficient information to demonstrate the 
gearbox and clutch problems his car has experienced were present from the onset of the 
agreement. He hasnt, for instance, demonstrated that the car hasnt proven durable enough.
The business, for their part, have provided comments from an approved dealership. I think 
its reasonable to suggest they are experts in these matters. They have suggested the faults 
have most likely arisen because of the way the car has been driven and are not 
manufacturing faults. They have explained that upon examination they noted the launch 
control had been initiated 152 times, the gearbox oil was burnt and smelt of clutch; the 
brakes were excessively worn, and the tyres exhibited heat marking which all suggested the 
car had been driven very hard indeed.
Whilst I can understand that launch control is a feature of the car I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect to use it so frequently without incurring excessive wear on a car. Im 
supported in that view by the handbook which explains when accelerating using launch 
control all components are subject to heavy loads. This can result in increased wear. I think 
its likely that is what Mr W has experienced and Im persuaded the faults with the gearbox 
and transmission are most likely to have been caused by driving style and not by any 
manufacturing default or issue present or developing when the car was supplied.
So, I dont think Audi have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W says the dealership initially offered to repair the car under warranty but later changed 
their mind. This appears to be because the dealership didnt feel a warranty claim could be 
made as the faults were due to driving style. I dont think theres evidence that decision was 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman