DRN-2310394
The complaint
Ms G complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Her representative is also involved 
with her complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Ms G under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that she electronically signed in January 2019;
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Ms G was nearly nine years old, had been driven for 
about 70,000 miles and had a price of £12,995;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Ms G complained to the dealer about issues with the cars gearbox about ten days 
after the car had been supplied to her  and there have continued to be issues with 
the gearbox since then and there have also been other issues with the car; 
a manufacturers dealer confirmed a gearbox fault in May 2019 when it performed 
diagnostic testing and a vehicle health check on the car and it said that the gearbox 
needed to be replaced  the cars mileage at that time was recorded as 77,855;
an independent inspection of the car was arranged but the mechanic was only able 
to inspect the gearbox which had been removed from the car;
the gearbox was repaired in June 2019 but Ms G wrote to Blue Motor Finance and 
said that she wanted to reject the car  it said that the car was being repaired so 
didnt agree that she could reject it;
the car was returned to Ms G at the end of June but she contacted Blue Motor 
Finance the following month because she said that the issue with the gearbox had 
returned;
an issue with the cars coolant were dealt with by the manufacturers dealer which 
Blue Motor Finance said was a separate issue to the gearbox fault  but Ms G has 
continued to complain about an intermittent issue with the cars gearbox;
the car passed an MOT test in January 2020 but the issues continued so Ms G 
arranged a diagnostic test of the car by a mobile mechanic in May 2020 which 
identified faults with the car, including with its gearbox  the cars mileage was 
recorded as 90,402;
Ms G had complained to this service and it was our investigators opinion that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality so Ms G was entitled to reject it - he recommended that 
Blue Motor Finance should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund the 
deposit that Ms G had paid (with interest); reimburse her for the cost of the two 
diagnostic reports; refund eight months payment for the time that Ms G had no use 
of the car (with interest); and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused;
Ms Gs representative, on her behalf, accepted those recommendations but Blue 
Motor Finance says that the car passed an MOT test in January 2020 when its 
mileage was recorded as 84,570 miles, Ms G has continued to use the car and in 
May 2020 its mileage was recorded as over 90,000  so it says that a further 
inspection should be carried out;
I consider that theres enough evidence to show that there was a fault with the cars 
gearbox in January 2019, soon after the car had been supplied to Ms G, and which 
was confirmed by a manufacturers dealer in May 2019 who recommended that the 
gearbox should be replaced;
I understand that the gearbox was then repaired  rather than being replaced as 
recommended  and Ms G says that the faults with it returned and fault codes 
relating to the gearbox were still present in May 2020 when diagnostic testing was 
undertaken;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a gearbox issue with the car 
when it was supplied to Ms G, that there continues to be a gearbox issue with the car 
which hasnt been remedied by the repairs and that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Ms G because of those issues  so I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to accept Ms Gs rejection of the car; 
and
I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require a further 
inspection to be made of the car. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor Finance to 
end the hire purchase agreement and to arrange for the car to be collected from Ms G  both 
at no cost to her. The hire purchase agreement shows that Ms G part-exchanged a car with 
a value of £2,500 as a deposit  I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor 
Finance to refund the part-exchange value to her, with interest.
Ms G says that she was unable to use the car for about eight months. I agree with our 
investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to refund to Ms G 
eight of the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement, with interest, to 
compensate her for that loss of use of the car.
But Ms G has been able to use the car at other times as shown by the mileage of 90,402 
that was recorded in May 2020  so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Blue Motor Finance to refund any more of the monthly payments to Ms G  it 
can keep them as payment for the use that shes had from the car. 
Ms G has paid for two diagnostic reports on the car to show the issues with the gearbox. I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to reimburse her for the cost 
of those reports, with interest, if shes able to provide it with evidence to show the amount 
that she paid for them. These events will have caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience for Ms G. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to 
pay her £200 to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint and I order Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Ms G  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Ms G the £2,500 value of the car that she part-exchanged.
3. Refund to Ms G eight of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement as compensation for the time that she had no use of the car.
4. Reimburse Ms G for the cost of the two diagnostic reports if she provides 
evidence to show the costs that she incurred.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Pay £200 to Ms G to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Blue Motor Finance must give Ms G a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman