DRN-3924548
The complaint
Mr P complains about Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) not paying a variable rate of 
interest on the Cash ISA he holds with them.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P transferred an ISA to the Cynergys variable rate Isa. He complained as, 
although hed invested in a variable rate product, the rate on his ISA wasnt automatically 
adjusted when there was a change in the Bank of Englands Base Rate. He though this 
should happen when Cynergy made higher rates of interest available in newer issues of their 
online ISA. And, as it hadnt happened, he thought hed lost out.
In its Final Response letter of 29 September 2022, Cynergy partly upheld the complaint. In 
respect of the rate automatically changing it told Mr P it didnt do this as the pricing on new 
ISA issues could move both upward and downward. And that they had a fast track process 
within their online banking to allow the latest issue of the online ISA to be opened in a few 
seconds by existing account holders. So, they didnt uphold this part of the complaint. But 
they did uphold Mr Ps concerns about the information provided about the interest rate of the 
online ISA. 
Cynergy apologised and agreed information in its Online ISA FAQs and the information on 
its website about the interest rate were misleading. And apologised for this. It said the 
information didnt say that when theres a new issue of the ISA the rate of an existing one 
isnt amended and it should advise customers, they would need to apply for a new online 
ISA to obtain the new rates. They said feedback had been given for this mistake and offered 
£50 compensation in settlement which Mr P rejected.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Cynergy hadnt made any errors or 
mistakes and had applied the correct interest rate to Mr Ps account in line with the account 
terms and conditions. 
Mr P didnt agree, he thought the investigator had overlooked the fact that his variable rate 
ISA would not vary. And he said as the bank had confirmed they had no intention of varying 
his interest rate but instead brought out new Issues of the ISA it was in fact a Fixed rate 
product.
The investigator after considering his comments didnt change her view. She thought 
Cynergy had acted in line with the industry guidelines set out in the Banking: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook for both interest rate changes and the publication of current rates of 
interest. And as our role wasnt to say whether that guidance was right but rather whether a 
business had done what it should and acted fairly, she couldnt ask them to do anything 
further.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. The central point was although 
Cynergy offered market rates instead of applying this to existing issues they made 
customers apply for transfers. And this process hadnt been made clear to him at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The terms - which both parties agreed to - allow Cynergy to alter the rate of interest on the 
account. One of the reasons permitting a change are to allow it to respond proportionately 
to a change in the Bank of England base rate. But this account isnt a tracker or linked to the 
base rate. And the terms dont say the base rate change will automatically happen, rather 
that it may be a reason for a change. So, I dont think Cynergy have done anything wrong in 
not changing the rate on the account.
I appreciate Mr P thinks that despite those terms this is effectively a fixed rate product  and 
not a genuine variable one - as the rate hasnt changed and the banks policy of offering a 
higher rate in newer issues means that wont ever change. But I think thats speculation on 
his part. 
Mr P thinks it should automatically change as, if not, the onus is on the customer to be on 
constant alert to interest rate increase and ask for these to be applied. As Ive explained that 
expectation isnt in line with the terms of the account and, ultimately, it is a customers 
responsibility to manage their account. 
Cynergy offered higher rates in newer issues of the ISA. These products arent exclusively 
for new customers. Theres a fast track process where existing customers can apply online 
for the new issue. And, as this isnt a product where the rate is pegged to or tracks the 
interest rate, I cant say that each time the base rate changes the rate on this account should 
change automatically or proportionally in line with that. A change in the base rate may do 
that. But ultimately, any decisions on the rates offered on a product, and whether they 
should alter, are commercial ones for a bank to make and generally not something we would 
get involved in.
So, whilst I can understand Mr P is frustrated, I think this ISA account has been managed 
within the account terms, so I cant uphold that part of the complaint.
Its accepted the information on Cynergys website about the interest rate was misleading 
and that it didnt say, when theres a new issue of the ISA, the rate of an existing one isnt 
amended. Cynergy said the information should advise customers, they would need to apply 
for a new online ISA to obtain the new rates. I think that put Mr P at a disadvantage in 
managing this account. But I think the £50 compensation theyve offered is a reasonable 
response. Ill explain why.
Since Mr P opened this account there were numerous increases in the base rate. Those 
changes were from a historic low and national news. So, I think its reasonable to assume he 
was aware of the base rate changes as they happened. The account holder is ultimately 
responsible for the management of the account. I appreciate an investor would want to 
maximise the interest earned on an account so Id expect them to check their account and 
ensure the rate of interest paid was in line with their expectations given the base rate 
change. And particularly so as this wasnt a tracker product and nowhere in the terms was 
an automatic rise provided for. So, although I agree the information was misleading, I think 
the rate remaining static ought to have come to Mr Ps attention shortly after the first base 
rate increase. So sooner than when he raised the complaint in August 2022. And thats why I 
think the compensation it has offered is a reasonable response here.Overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Cynergy need to take any further action here 
so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman