DRN-3482050
The complaint
Miss B complains Sainsburys Bank plc ( Sainsburys) provided incorrect information 
regarding a redemption statement for her mortgage account, causing her financial loss.
What happened
Miss B says her fixed rate mortgage with Sainsburys was due to expire on 31 July 2021 and 
she had arranged for the mortgage to be transferred to another provider. Miss B says 
following discussions with her conveyancers earlier in July 2021, she was informed by them 
that Sainsburys policy was it could only issue a redemption statement in the month in which 
the mortgage was being redeemed.
Miss B says she queried this with Sainsburys, because she was looking to redeem her 
mortgage with them on 1 August 2021, and it meant she would pay extra interest at the new 
standard variable rate until the mortgage could be redeemed. Miss B says Sainsburys 
reconfirmed this was its policy on two other occasions in August 2021, when she telephoned 
them.
Miss B says because of this misinformation, her mortgage account wasnt redeemed with 
Sainsburys until later in August 2021 and she calculated this has cost her approximately an 
extra £475 in interest/charges. 
Miss B wants Sainsburys to refund the extra costs she has incurred in view of the incorrect 
information it gave her.
Sainsburys says while it accepts it gave incorrect information regarding the redemption 
process, it never received any redemption requests from Miss Bs conveyancers in July 2021 
as she had claimed. Sainsburys says it provided the redemption statement in early August 
following Miss Bs request and the mortgage was redeemed on 19 August 2021.  
Sainsburys confirmed it would have been possible for Miss Bs conveyancers to have 
requested a redemption statement earlier, as it was possible to issue a redemption 
statement past the month end, but as the conveyancers hadnt, it couldnt be held 
responsible for that. 
Sainsburys admitted the information it gave Miss B in August 2021 was incorrect and offered 
her £25 by way of an apology. 
Miss B wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says while an earlier redemption statement had been requested by the 
conveyancer in late May 2021, no further requests had been received by Sainsburys until 30 
July 2021. 
The investigator acknowledged Miss B was told in later telephone calls in August 2021, post 
the redemption statement it issued, that redemption statements could only be issued in the 
current month and that was a mistake. That said, the investigator felt there was no reason 
why her conveyancer should have thought that, as it wasnt Sainsburys current policy - that 
had changed many months before. 
With that in mind the investigator felt it couldnt ask Sainsburys to refund the additional 
interest costs Miss B had requested.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss B to have to pay extra interest costs 
on her mortgage account when it could have been redeemed earlier. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys actions were the cause of the 
Miss Bs mortgage account not being redeemed sooner than it was. 
Miss Bs complaint centres around the fact she was told by Sainsburys, and it was also her 
conveyancers belief, a redemption statement could only be provided in the month it was 
being redeemed. In this case as Miss B has made clear, that policy meant as her mortgage 
redemption date was intended for 1 August 2021, (the day following the expiry of her fixed 
interest rate) it would result in her facing higher interest costs. 
Miss B says she contacted Sainsburys earlier in July 2021, to query why a redemption 
statement couldnt be issued for the following month, as she had been told was Sainsburys 
policy by her conveyancer. Miss B says when she called in early July and twice in mid-
August 2021, Sainsburys confirmed this was indeed the case.  
Miss B says on 30 July 2021 she again telephoned Sainsburys, chasing the redemption 
statement she believed her conveyancer had requested, but was told it hadnt been received 
and it would take Sainsburys a further five days to issue it. Ultimately Miss B feels 
Sainsburys misinformation regarding when a redemption statement could be issued, is why 
she incurred the extra costs and wants these reimbursed. 
While I understand the points Miss B has made, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this as although I can see Sainsburys have accepted it gave incorrect information about 
its policy on issuing redemption statements, and that was a mistake, this was after the date it 
had issued the redemption statement on 5 August 2021. Thats not to say it wouldnt have 
been frustrating for Miss B, it would have and Sainsburys have apologised for that, provided 
feedback to the members of staff and offered Miss B a token payment for the inconvenience, 
which I would expect of them in the circumstances. 
What is important is those two mistakes Sainsburys made in the telephone calls with Miss B 
in mid -August 2021, albeit poor service by them, I cant say was the reason for the delay in 
redeeming the mortgage account. 
Although Miss B says she telephoned Sainsburys earlier in July 2021, when it confirmed 
what her conveyancer had already informed her about the issuing of redemptions statements, she has been unable to provide any dates or times, and has suggested this was 
perhaps a general telephone enquiry. Unfortunately, in order to come to a full and impartial 
decision, I can only rely on evidence presented to me. 
In addition, I havent seen any evidence to show Miss Bs conveyancer requested a 
redemption statement in mid-July 2021 as she believed, the only other redemption statement 
requested of Sainsburys, apart from the redemption statement it issued following Miss Bs 
telephone call in late July, was on 24 May 2021. 
Whats worth saying here is from the contact notes I have seen, Miss Bs conveyancer was 
sent a redemption statement on 26 May 2021, with a redemption date of 1 June 2021. So, 
its not clear why her conveyancer would subsequently be under the impression a 
redemption statement couldnt be provided for repayment in the following month, having 
requested this before. 
Miss B says this had been the policy of Sainsburys and it has since confirmed that was 
correct, but this policy was changed the previous year. Its reasonable to say as a firm of 
professional conveyancers, I would have expected it to check this with Sainsburys, rather 
than rely on what it believed was the case or any previous policies Sainsburys might have 
had. 
Furthermore, its not clear why Miss Bs conveyancer, believing it couldnt ask for a 
redemption statement until August 2021, told her it had requested one in mid- July 2021. Its 
reasonable to assume in all likelihood a redemption statement wasnt requested at this time 
and Sainsburys have no record of receiving it.   
Taking this into account, I cant say Sainsburys had been formally asked for a redemption 
statement until Miss B requested this, when she rang them on 30 July 2021, so I cant hold 
Sainsburys responsible for the mortgage account being redeemed later than Miss B had 
intended. 
Here, the five-day turnaround time to produce the redemption statement wasnt 
unreasonable, and I can see the mortgage account was redeemed on 19 August 2021, two 
weeks after the redemption statement was provided to Miss Bs conveyancer. 
I can sympathise with Miss Bs situation here but for the reasons I have already given, while 
Sainsburys provided misinformation to her, which is disappointing, from the evidence 
presented to me that was after it had sent the redemption statement for her mortgage 
account, in early August 2021. So, I cant say this was the reason why Miss Bs mortgage 
was redeemed later than it should have.
With that in mind it wouldnt be fair of me to ask Sainsburys to refund the amount Miss B 
feels she has been overcharged.  
While Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Sainsburys here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman