DRN-3080714
The complaint
Mr W, trading as D, complains about the decision of The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to decline his business interruption insurance claim for losses 
arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr W operates as a pub and he held a business insurance policy, which was underwritten by 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU). The policy provided 
cover for number of areas of risk, including business interruption. In March 2020, Mr W was 
required to close D as a result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced to control 
the spread of COVID-19.
Some time later, Mr W contacted NFU to claim for the losses arising from this closure. He 
initially experienced some difficulty in raising the claim over the phone, but was able to do 
this in writing that same day. However, NFU declined the claim. They said much of the 
business interruption cover was based on the interruption being caused by damage to 
property, but that COVID-19 had not caused such damage. NFU did refer to two extensions 
to the business interruption cover that did not require such damage, but said that neither 
covered Mr W in the circumstances of his claim. 
The first extension was the Human Diseases extension, but NFU said this only provided 
cover in relation to the diseases listed in the policy  and COVID-19 was not one of those. 
The second extension was the Public Emergency extension, which provided cover where 
there had been an emergency that affected the use of the insured premises. But NFU said 
there was an exclusion in this extension on loss resulting from disease and they felt this 
applied to the circumstance of the claim. 
Mr W remained unhappy with this, saying that he had not been provided with a copy of the 
policy wording. And brought his complaint to this service. But our Investigator did not think 
the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Mr W had been sent a copy of the 
policy when it was first taken out, in 2018. And she felt that NFU had applied the terms of 
this policy appropriately to the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W remained unhappy and his complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr W and his business, I wont be upholding his complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Mr W closed his business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of his business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover hes looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr W took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr Ws policy, as well as 
a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mr Ws business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. And I 
think NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr Ws claim under this area of cover.
The Human Disease extension 
Mr Ws policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing 
cover in the event of certain diseases.
The Human Disease extension in Mr Ws policy says cover is provided for loss of income 
caused by the occurrence of any of the diseases listed within this extension, which then 
results in closure or restriction in use of the premises on the order or advice of a relevant 
authority. I have not repeated the list in full here, as all parties are aware of its content. 
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr W with cover for the circumstances of his claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Ws comments that COVID-19 is a new disease 
that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for NFU to 
include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think NFU intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. NFU deliberately chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of 
certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mr W had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mr W has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.Mr W has also said that this list includes Plague. And has said that COVID-19 ought to be 
considered as a plague and that cover should be provided accordingly. However, I am not 
persuaded that the inclusion of Plague means the extension covers any infectious 
disease, affliction or pestilence.
Whilst these may be dictionary definitions of a plague, the meaning of such a term in a 
contract of insurance needs to be considered in the context provided by that contract, in view 
of the wider factual and legal background. The context given by the immediate surroundings 
of this term are, in my view, informative of its meaning. The rest of this extension is 
comprised by a list of a specific diseases, many of which would fall into the broad definition 
of plague Mr W seemingly favours. So, the inclusion of these other diseases would not be 
necessary if Plague had such a broad meaning. And this context suggests that the use of 
Plague in this list of specific diseases is also a reference to a specific disease. 
Plague has a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease in its own right 
caused by a particular bacterium. Plague appears as a specified disease in the 
Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria Yersinia Pestis. 
There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and pneumonic.
The preamble to this list also makes it clear that the list refers to specific diseases by 
referencing it as a list of diseases, indicating there is something specific about their nature. 
Whilst the construction of Mr W's policy is different to that considered by the court in 
Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), I 
have noted the reasoning of the judge in this case, which considered the interpretation of the 
term Plague in similar circumstances and which supports my conclusions above. 
Overall, I am persuaded that a court would consider that a reasonable person with the 
background knowledge of Mr W at the time the contract was entered, would have interpreted 
this term as being a reference to the specific disease of Plague rather than as a catch-all for 
all wide-spreading diseases. 
I consider the policy clearly only intended to cover certain specified diseases. And I dont 
think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
I do note Mr W has said that he did not receive a copy of this policy wording prior to making 
his claim. But, having seen a copy of the documents apparently sent to Mr W in 2018 when 
the policy was originally taken out, I consider more likely than not that he was sent this 
wording. The letter enclosing the documents is correctly addressed and lists the policy 
wording as being enclosed. And this policy wording includes the relevant extension and list 
of diseases. 
I appreciate that it is likely however that Mr W was not sent a copy of the policy wording 
when the policy renewed in 2019  the year applicable to the claim. But the documents he 
was sent at the time of that renewal explained that a new copy of the policy wording would 
only be provided when there were significant changes to the wording he had previously been 
sent. As the policy wording had not been significantly changed, no further copy of the 
wording was likely to have been provided. Whilst I appreciate this means Mr W was unlikely 
to have received a copy of the policy wording in 2019, I think he had already received a copy 
of the relevant wording. And I think it is fair and reasonable for this wording to apply to the 
claim. 
Mr Ws claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Mr Ws policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied NFUs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
The Public Emergency extension
This is the second extension to the business interruption section of Mr Ws policy that does 
not require damage to be the cause of the interruption. The extension provides cover where 
actions are taken by a relevant authority, which impact the use or access to the premises, as 
a result of an emergency. 
However, the second sentence of this extension then reads:
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease
I think that this second sentence in the extension applies to the first sentence. Further 
sentences in the extension then go on to set out the relevant indemnity period and financial 
limit provided by the extension. And I think all of the sentences in the extension need to be 
read together to determine the cover provided. I dont think the first sentence can be read in 
isolation to determine the extent of cover. Rather, I think it is necessary to first read this and 
consider how the sentences that follow act to limit that cover. 
It should also be noted that the reference to disease here is broader than that in the Human 
Disease extension discussed above. In that extension, there was a specified list of diseases. 
Here, the reference is to infectious or contagious disease. COVID-19 is an infectious or 
contagious disease. So, I think any loss resulting from COVID-19 is not covered by this 
extension.
Mr W has suggested that his losses were not caused by the disease, but rather were the 
result of the Governments actions. However, these actions were taken due to a disease. 
This is quite clear from the details of the relevant parliamentary discussions, the content of 
the relevant announcements, and the wording of the actual restrictions. For example, the 
Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 say that:
These Regulations are made in response to the serious and imminent threat to 
public health which is posed by the incidence and spread of severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in England.
The reason for control the spread of this virus was to control the disease it causes  
COVID-19.
In summary, I consider the limitation set out in the second sentence of this extension applies 
to the cover set out in the first. And I also consider that the reasons for the actions taken by 
the Government which led to the close of D, were the result of an infectious or contagious 
disease. It follows that this extension does not provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
claim and that I do not consider NFU acted inappropriately in not meeting the claim under 
this extension. 
Loss of licence endorsement
Lastly, Mr W has referred to an endorsement set out in his policy schedule which relates to 
the loss of Ds liquor licence. This endorsement provides cover where a business licence to 
sell alcohol ahs been forfeited or not renewed. 
However, whilst I note Mr Ws comments, I do not consider that this was the effect of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced in March 2020. The restrictions did prevent D 
from selling alcohol, at least for consumption on the premises, but they did not remove the licence itself. The restrictions prevented all relevant trade at the premises, and this was not 
limited to the sale of alcohol. And the licence was not forfeited, even though the act of selling 
alcohol may have been prevented for other reasons. 
So, I am not persuaded this this endorsement provides cover in the circumstances of the 
claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means NFU should have met Mr Ws claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr W, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman