DRN-4193092
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In January 2021, Mr H received a marketing email from a company Ill refer to as T, 
introducing themselves as brokers who specialised in cryptocurrency investments. Mr H was 
sent a link to Ts website which featured its T&Cs, and a certificate of its registration with the 
Global Financial Authority (GFA). 
Mr H looked T up on Trustpilot and saw it had a three-star rating. There were some negative 
reviews, but after speaking to one of Ts brokers, he was satisfied theyd been posted by 
people who had deposited small amounts and were unhappy with the returns. The broker 
explained T was based in Switzerland and didnt need to be regulated by the FCA. He said 
fees and taxes would need to be paid before Mr H could make withdrawals, and that hed be 
able to withdraw a monthly dividend when the account balance reached £30,000.
The broker advised Mr H to download Anydesk and then purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company before loading it onto an online wallet. Between 26 May 
2021 and 16 August 2021, he made 21 payments to three cryptocurrency exchange 
companies totalling £561,750 using a visa debit card and online transfers from his Barclays 
account. Our investigator subsequently found there were more payments, but Mr H doesnt 
want those payments included in this complaint.
When the balance on the trading account reached £16,000,000, Mr H decided to make a 
withdrawal, but the request was rejected. The broker told him hed have to pay withdrawal 
fees, which he paid with a directors loan from his company. But once hed paid the fee, Mr H 
was told it had been paid to the wrong person and, when he refused to pay more, he lost 
contact with the broker, at which point he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr H complained to Barclays, but it said it was unable to refund any of the money hed lost. It 
accepted there were issues with the service hed received, offering an apology and £300 
compensation. But it said that as the money was lost from a cryptocurrency wallet in his 
name, the claim fell outside of current Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) guidance.
It said that, given the large amounts of money sent during the scam period, Mr H hadnt 
done sufficient due diligence. and he should have taken independent advice from a qualified 
or registered financial expert, having instead put most of his faith in information provided to 
him by the scammers. It also said hed knowingly allowed remote access software to be 
installed and had followed the guidance of the scammers when setting up various 
cryptocurrency wallets. Hed gone ahead in the face of negative reviews, the apparent 
returns on the investment were far too good to be true, and during calls with its fraud team, 
Mr H had spoken openly and with confidence and authority about the investment and the 
various processes involved. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied so he complained to this service. He said the payments were much 
larger than his normal account activity and he had researched T, but didnt find any adverse 
information until after he realised hed been scammed. And he didn't check the FCA register 
as hes not an experienced investor.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM) didnt apply to card payments or international 
payments, and all the disputed payments were to accounts in Mr Hs name, so the code 
wouldnt apply. She said chargeback was relevant as one of the payments was made using 
a Visa debit card, but Mr H couldnt have a valid claim against the legitimate company he 
paid because it had provided the services as intended, which was to purchase the 
cryptocurrency and transfer to a wallet.
Our investigator said there were reasonable grounds for Barclays to have intervened, 
explaining the frequency of the payments and sums involved in relation to how much Mr H 
normally spent meant it ought to have identified this was a highly unusual and 
uncharacteristic pattern of spending. She didnt think the first two payments on 26 May 2021 
were unusual because Mr H had opened the account on 21 May 2021 for the purpose of 
investing, so there was no spending history to compare with, and there were sufficient funds 
to facilitate the payments. But she thought the third payment of £9,500 was unusual because 
it was the third consecutive payment of high value that hed made in under three minutes, 
and it was to a high-risk merchant. 
She noted Barclays had called Mr H on 26 May, 22 June 2021, and 28 July 2021, but there 
was no evidence hed been given a full scam warning on any of those occasions. However, 
she didnt think it would have made a difference to Mr Hs decision to go ahead with the 
payments if Barclays had given a scam warning during any of those calls, because she 
didnt think it could have said anything which would have dissuaded him from going ahead 
with the investment. 
This is because, during the interactions Mr H had with Barclays on and after 14 August 
2021, while he did say he was buying cryptocurrency, he didnt mention T. And when asked 
if hed checked the FCA website, he said he was confident the business he was paying 
didnt need to be authorised and that he was simply transferring cryptocurrency into a wallet.
Further, our investigator didnt think a full scam warning during that or any of the earlier calls 
would have prevented Mr H from going ahead with the payments because in a call with a 
different bank on 27 April 2021 where he did disclose Ts involvement, he was told about an 
FCA warning dated 12 February 2021, and continued to make further payments both from 
that account and his Barclays account. Our investigator also referred to messages Mr H had 
with the scammers which suggested people around him had concerns T was operating a 
scam, and he still went ahead.
So overall, our investigator didnt think an earlier or better intervention would have made a 
difference to Mr Hs decision to go ahead with the investment and so it wouldnt be fair to 
hold Barclays liable for his loss.
Finally, our investigator said there was no evidence Barclays had contacted the beneficiary 
banks to attempt to recall any funds, but as they were paid into accounts in Mr Hs own 
name before being moved on to the scammers trading platform, its unlikely it would have 
been able to recover any of the funds. She explained Barclays had acknowledged there 
were customer service issues and had paid £300 compensation and she was satisfied that was fair because when he reported the scam, there was nothing it could do to recover his 
money. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, 
questioning how our investigator could conclude Barclays should have intervened sooner, 
but that it wouldnt have made any difference.
Hes argued he was groomed by a sophisticated scam, and yet Barclays did nothing to 
protect him. Hes said what he said during the calls with Barclays was misplaced confidence 
and that before his contact with T, he had no knowledge of trading, meaning he was 
vulnerable and at risk.
Hes said he trusted Barclays to exercise due diligence and take proactive measures to 
protect his interests and financial well-being. And that the presence of unusual activity 
should have prompted it to initiate a comprehensive review, including gathering additional 
information from him and conducting necessary investigations to confirm the legitimacy of 
the transactions. Hes argued that by neglecting to take appropriate action, Barclays allowed 
the fraudulent activity to persist and by neglecting to intervene and investigate the unusual 
activity on his account, it contributed to the financial loss and distress hes experienced.
Hes said there were numerous irregular and unusual payments from his account, which 
were clearly outside the scope of his normal financial behaviour, and which should have 
raised immediate concerns. He maintains he had had no prior experience with 
cryptocurrency exchanges before encountering the scammers and, as an inexperienced 
investor, he relied on the assurances and recommendations provided by Barclays, entrusting 
it to guide him safely and responsibly through the process. Hes said he fell victim to an 
intricately engineered scam that capitalized on his lack of knowledge and experience and the 
scammers employed sophisticated tactics to deceive him and manipulate his actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
the payments were to an account in Mr Hs name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Im satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
Barclays had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr H when he 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect it to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial harm due to fraud. 
Barclays blocked payments on 26 May 2021, 22 June 2021, and 28 July 2021, but we only 
have a call recording for the intervention that took place on 28 July, during which Mr H was 
asked to confirm the payment was genuine. And, in the absence of evidence of what took 
place during the other two calls, Im satisfied those payments were probably also released 
without adequate questioning or a scam warning. 
The next intervention took place on 14 August 2021, when there were three separate calls. 
During these calls, Mr H engaged in detailed conversations about the fact he was simply 
buying cryptocurrency to keep in his wallet. He explained hed moved cryptocurrency he 
already held and was buying more from other sellers. He said that even if the price of 
cryptocurrency fell, he wouldnt lose money unless he sold it. Critically, he told Barclays 
there was no third-party involved, that he hadnt been promised a guaranteed return and that 
he knew he could lose money. During the calls, he was told to check the FCA register and 
was warned about the risk of scams.
Ive thought about whether Barclays ought to have given Mr H a fraud warning earlier than 
14 August 2021 and in doing this Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context 
of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr H normally ran his account. All 
the payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies, but they were for very 
large amounts, and I agree with our investigator that he should have been given a full scam 
warning during the call that took place on 26 May 2021.
I also think Barclays should have intervened again when Mr H paid £42,500 on 27 May 
2021. I accept that by this time Mr H had paid the payee on four previous occasions, but 
theres no evidence hed been given a full scam warning at this point and as the payment 
was high-value, Barclays should have stepped in and questioned him around the purpose of 
the payments and the nature of the checks hed made. It should also have warned him about 
the risks associated with the investment and given examples of the types of scams to look 
out for.
Ive also considered the nature of the warnings Mr H was given during the calls that took 
place on 14 August 2021, and I dont think Barclays did enough. During the calls, Mr H 
sounds as though he knows exactly what he is doing but I think the call handlers should 
have taken control of the calls and given more information about red flags he should be 
looking out for. Mr H repeatedly said there was no third-party involved, but considering the size of the payments, I think he should have been pushed on the point and warned that it 
would be a red flag if hed been approached by a third-party or advised to use remote 
access software.
However, Im satisfied that, even if Barclays had been more robust in its questioning, its 
unlikely Mr H would have disclosed Ts involvement, so theres no way it could reasonably 
have uncovered the fact he was being scammed based on the information it had. Further, 
even Mr H had been open about Ts involvement, I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the outcome. This is because Ive listened to the call that took place between 
Mr H and his other bank on 27 April 2021. In that call, there was a discussion about T during 
which Mr H was told about the FCA warning dated 12 February 2021, and he still went 
ahead with the investment. And the fact he went ahead having been told about the warning 
means its more likely than not that any warning Barclays might have given would have been 
met with the same response. 
Mr H was very confident the investment was genuine and decided to go ahead, 
notwithstanding a warning from the FCA that pre-dated the payments, and multiple scam 
warnings from both banks. Its also worth noting that he opened the Barclays account for the 
purpose of continuing the investment after he had the scam conversation with the other 
bank. In these circumstances, even though I agree with our investigator that Barclays could 
have done more to warn Mr H, and that it should have been done sooner, I dont think it 
would have made a difference. 
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover Mr Hs payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr H).
Mr Hs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Hs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Barclays decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against any the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr H has lost money and the effect this has had on him. I do think 
Barclays could have done more sooner, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it 
could have prevented Mr Hs loss and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman