DRN-3095108
The complaint
Mr S complains about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limiteds 
administration of a reviewable whole-of-life life assurance policy hes had since 1984. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Sun Life in my decision to mean the current and previous 
businesses that have been responsible for administering this product. 
What happened
Mr S has already had some complaints about how his policy has been handled considered 
by our service. His dissatisfaction was driven by the policy failing its reviews. That meant the 
amount the policy would pay when Mr S died  the policys sum assured  dropped. 
The current complaints are more administrative matters, which dont appear to directly relate 
to the premiums or sum assured for this policy. They seem to speak to Mr S feeling Sun Life 
havent kept him informed about matters more generally connected to his policy. Specifically, 
our investigation this time round has looked at four points:
Sun Life didnt tell Mr S in 2000 that theyd stopped selling products like his to other 
people.
Sun Life have given two different dates for when they took over the administration of 
Mr Ss policy.
Sun Life havent given Mr S copies of statements for his policy for the period 1984 to 
1999.
Sun Life havent told Mr S what the result of a future review will be. 
On these points, Sun Life and our investigator felt the service Mr S received had been 
reasonable. Between them, theyve explained
There isnt a requirement for Sun Life to tell Mr S when they stop selling products like 
his to other customers, as this has no direct impact on his policy.
Sun Life took over the administration of the policy in 2009, when they bought another 
company.
Theres no requirement for Sun Life to keep statements from as long ago as 1999.
The future reviews will depend on things that havent happened yet, so its 
reasonable Sun Life cant tell Mr S what he wants to know. 
Mr S says he doesnt think this leads to a fair outcome, and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision about his complaint. So the matters come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why, although my 
reasoning is essentially the same as our investigator previously explained. 
It seems to be agreed that the company administering Mr Ss policy in 2000 stopped selling 
these sorts of policies to new customers. I cant see thats something that directly impacted 
on Mr Ss policy though. His policy looks to have still been administered and run in line with 
its terms. So I see no issue with Mr S not being told that these sorts of policies werent going 
to be available to new customers anymore. 
I cant see that Sun Life ever told Mr S theyd taken over responsibility for the policy in 2000. 
And in any case, theyve clearly explained now that it was 2009 when they took over. That 
seems to be the correct date, as I can see that in 2009 Sun Life purchased one of the 
companies Mr S has mentioned as historically being involved with his policy. As the correct 
year has been identified, I cant see Sun Life need to do anything more on this point. 
I find it reasonable that Sun Life dont have statements going back to 1999 or beyond. The 
systems used to store that sort of information are likely to have changed significantly over 
the years. Technology has changed. Regulatory requirements have changed. And so has 
the business handling the policy. Given the length of time were talking about here, I find ts 
reasonable that Sun Life dont have more statements to give Mr S. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ss requests for information about what will happen at the future 
reviews of his policy. I note Sun Life have tried to give some indication of this  providing a 
premium amount that they anticipate would provide a certain level of cover for the rest of 
Mr Ss life. But I can understand why Sun Life arent able to be more specific for Mr S. 
The cost of his policy in the future will reflect the cost of life cover in the future. And it will be 
affected by the return achieved by the invested part of his policy. Both of those are things 
that can be guessed at, but arent precisely knowable ahead of time. Essentially, Mr Ss 
request is asking Sun Life to guess at what the future will be. Its reasonable that theyve 
explained there are limits to how much theyre willing to guess at.  
My final decision
Given my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman