DRN-3444480
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the decision by Aviva Insurance Limited to turn down 
her private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs M joined a group private medical insurance scheme on 1 April 2020. Later 
that year, Mrs M went ahead with dental surgery. She asked Aviva to cover the 
cost of this.
Aviva turned down the claim. It thought Mrs Ms treatment was excluded under the 
policy. Aviva also said that even if the treatment had been eligible, Mrs Ms specialist 
didnt meet its definition of a specialist. However, Aviva offered Mrs M £50 
compensation for not providing her with a copy of the policy terms when she initially 
requested this.
Unhappy with Avivas claims decision, Mrs M brought a complaint to this service.
I issued my first provisional decision on 16 February 2022. In that decision I concluded that 
Aviva couldnt rely on the following exclusion:
Any dental treatment not involving an oral surgical procedure, including:

dental implants, or treatment carried out to insert or help you wear dental 
implants
The reason for that was because Mrs Ms treating specialist (Mr S) had made it clear that her 
dental treatment did involve oral surgical procedures.
However, I thought it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the below second exclusion:
Spectacles; contact lenses; hearing aids; dentures; other optical, dental, 
surgical or medical appliances or equivalent appliances (other than a prosthesis 
inserted into the body during the course of a surgical procedure).
 
The reason for that was because I agreed with Aviva that the dental implant would be 
considered a dental appliance. 
I asked the parties for any comments they wished to make on my provisional findings. Mrs M 
responded to say she didnt accept my position that her claim fell under the exclusion for 
dental appliances. First of all, Mrs M made the point that if someone had eye cancer, then 
the treatment for this wouldnt be excluded because they may need spectacles after, and 
only the cost of the spectacles should be excluded. Secondly, she thought the dental implant 
would be considered a prosthesis. 
I issued a second provisional decision on 8 April 2022. Heres what I said:
Ive noted Mrs Ms view on the exclusion for dental appliances in relation to physical 
items, but I dont agree. Mrs M has given an example where someone has eye cancer, 
and made the point that the treatment itself wouldnt be excluded, simply because that 
person may need spectacles after the treatment.
It might be helpful if I explain that the policy covers the treatment of acute conditions. An 
acute condition (as defined in the policy) is a disease, illness or injury thats likely to 
respond quickly to treatment.
Therefore, to use Mrs Ms example, if someone needed treatment for eye cancer then I 
agree this treatment wouldnt fall under the exclusion for appliances. The treatment would 
be covered because it would be for an acute condition. If the person needed spectacles 
after the treatment, then the cost of those spectacles would fall under the exclusion.
However, Mrs Ms situation differs from this example. Thats because the treatment 
needed (the sinus surgery and the repositioning of the nerve) is only necessary to allow 
the dental implant to be placed in her jawbone. In other words, the treatment isnt 
needed for an acute condition, and is solely to allow the insertion of the dental implant.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms argument that a dental implant is akin to a prosthesis. I 
thought this was balanced. It could be argued that the dental implant replaces the root of 
the replacement tooth and therefore could be considered a prosthesis. However, it could 
also be argued that its the crown thats later fitted to the dental implant which replaces 
the body part (the tooth). The dental implant merely provides the anchorage for the 
crown to be fitted.
I therefore asked Mrs M to obtain Mr Ss view on the matter. Hes said he considers both 
the implant and the crown to be a prosthesis. I will accept his view on this. Therefore, 
whilst I remain of the opinion that the implant would be considered a dental appliance, 
theres an exception within the exclusion for a prosthesis inserted into the body during the 
course of a surgical procedure. Based on Mr Ss evidence, Im satisfied the implant would 
fall under this exception.
The remaining issue is that Mr S isnt recognised by Aviva. However, weve checked 
with Aviva and it says that if Mrs M had required an eligible oral surgical procedure, 
then cover wouldve been available with a recognised oral maxillofacial surgeon in a 
hospital list covered by Mrs Ms policy.
Ive found that Mrs M did require an eligible oral surgical procedure. Ive looked at Avivas 
claim notes to see what happened, and I see that Mrs M called Aviva to make a claim 
before she had the treatment, and was told her claim was excluded. She therefore had the 
treatment with Mr S.
Mrs M has confirmed that if Aviva hadnt said her claim fell under the relevant exclusions, 
she wouldve been happy to have had the treatment with a specialist recognised by Aviva. 
It seems to me she was denied this opportunity because Aviva wrongly turned down the 
claim.
Therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis, I intend to require Aviva to pay the claim.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make before I made a 
final decison.
Mrs M didnt have any further comments. Aviva responded with the following points:
The policy is designed to cover treatment of acute conditions. It says the claim isnt 
eligible because there isnt an acute condition being treated, and instead the 
treatment is only necessary to allow the dental implant to be placed in the jawbone.
It clarified that it doesnt recognise dental specialists, and only recognises oral 
maxillofacial specialists as these meet its criteria of a specialist.
Neither Mr S nor the clinic where he works are recognised by it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has referred to a statement in my provisional decision which said that the sinus 
surgery and repositioning of the nerve werent needed for an acute condition, and were 
solely to allow the dental implant to be placed in Mrs Ms jawbone. 
To clarify, I meant the sinus surgery and repositioning of the nerve werent necessary for 
acute conditions relating to the sinus or the nerve. They were instead to allow the insertion of 
an appliance. This statement related to Mrs Ms argument that the relevant exclusion 
couldnt be relied upon where someone had a medical need for treatment as well as 
spectacles, but the spectacles would be excluded. 
Aviva hasnt previously said that it doesnt think Mrs Ms treatment was for an acute 
condition, but Ive considered this.
The policy defines an acute condition as:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Mrs M has explained that her tooth broke suddenly which left her in excruciating pain. Her 
tooth couldnt be repaired, and so the only solution was the dental implant. Im satisfied this 
injury would fall under the above definition of an acute condition. The treatment for this acute 
condition was the dental implant. The sinus surgery and repositioning of the nerve were 
necessary to allow the insertion of the dental implant. 
Aviva has again pointed out that neither Mr S nor the clinic were recognised by it. I accept 
that. Though as I explained in my provisional decision, Aviva incorrectly turned down 
Mrs Ms claim at the outset. If it hadnt done so, then Im satisfied Mrs M wouldve had the 
treatment with a specialist recognised by Aviva, and in a recognised facility. Consequently, I 
remain of the view that Aviva ought to pay the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay the claim. As Mrs M has paid for 
the treatment herself, Aviva should reimburse her directly. Interest should be added at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date Mrs M paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman