DRN-2386105
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when he sold his 
house and repaid his mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
I wont go into any detail here about Mr Ms circumstances as thats a private matter and 
incredibly sensitive. However, I would like to reassure Mr M that Ive taken into account 
everything hes said and provided, and I would also like to thank him for being so open and 
frank with us.
Mr M took out this mortgage with NatWest in September 2019 to buy a house. He borrowed 
around £470,000 - against a purchase price of £555,000 - on a rate that was fixed until 
31 October 2024. If the mortgage was repaid before that date an ERC would be incurred;
Until 31 October 2020 it would be 5% of the outstanding balance
Until 31 October 2021 it would be 4% of the outstanding balance
Until 31 October 2022 it would be 3% of the outstanding balance
Until 31 October 2023 it would be 2% of the outstanding balance
Until 31 October 2024 it would be 1% of the outstanding balance
Mr M contacted NatWest on 17 February 2020 to say that he had been made redundant. He 
said hed accepted an offer to buy the house already and asked how much it would cost to 
redeem his mortgage. When Mr M was told the early repayment charge would be around 
£23,000 he said he couldnt afford that.
NatWest looked into things, but said it was unable to waive the ERC as it was part of the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how important this is to Mr M, but although Ive read and considered the whole 
file - including listening to the various calls - Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
ERC are set out in the illustration and mortgage offer in a manner that met the regulators 
requirements. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh that cost in the form of interest on the 
mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage ends early, it doesnt get 
that interest, and so doesnt make back the cost in raising the funds to offer that preferential 
rate.
In a call with our investigator Mr M said:
I wasnt competent to sign those documents or even engage in the process
I know they werent aware of it, my question is were they obligated to know?
Is there no obligation on their part to check the competence of the people signing 
their documents?
I wasnt aware of the seriousness of the amount of money it was going to cost me to 
buy the house. If Id have known I would never have bought the house.
I wasnt conscious of what I was reading at the time. I wasnt mentally capable of 
understanding the process I was going through.
Ive considered this point very carefully. Ive also considered the statement we received from 
the mortgage adviser. She said:
I do remember [Mr M] very well. I noticed he had sick pay deductions on his salary 
slip. I questioned the customer as to what the sick pay was for to check the ongoing 
affordability would be sustainable and this was questioned at great length. He told 
me that he did not want to disclose to me the reason he was off sick as it is personal 
and I do not need to know why. He confirmed to me he was now back to work in full 
health, on the same hours and basis. He confirmed to me that going forward he will 
continue to receive the salary which was shown on his most recent pay slips. He told 
me this was a one off as he had taken some unpaid sick leave.
Based on what Mr M told our investigator and the advisers statement its not in dispute that 
Mr M didnt make NatWest aware of his circumstances. He was given the chance to do so 
when asked about his sick pay but chose not to disclose that information. I understand why 
Mr M may have done that as it is incredibly personal, but NatWest could only act on the 
information it was given and that was that Mr M had a one-off illness and had returned to 
full-time work. That was supported by the income that went into his NatWest bank account 
each month as I can see that other than the lower pay in July 2019, Mr M received around 
£6,200 gross pay every month from February 2019 to November 2019.
Mr M has asked Is there no obligation on their part to check the competence of the people 
signing their documents? Thats not an easy question to answer as it isnt as binary as that. 
Under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 A person must be assumed to have capacity unless it 
is established that he lacks capacity.
At the time Mr M applied for this mortgage he was employed full-time in a professional role 
and there were no indications that Mr M lacked capacity. A lender isnt expected to request a 
medical report for every customer who applies for a mortgage, and there was nothing here 
that would be classed as unusual such that I would have expected NatWest to look into 
things further. Mr M appointed a  solicitor to act in his interests for this purchase and 
mortgage application, and if his solicitor thought he lacked capacity then it should have been 
flagged up at that stage.Whilst I dont normally quote unrelated third parties, the mental health charity Mind has put 
this better than I can in its section on financial decisions and the Mental Capacity Act 2005. It 
says:
If you borrowed money when you did not have the capacity to fully understand what 
you were doing, the law sees this as a contract.
You have to follow the terms of the contract unless you can show that the person or 
organisation you borrowed money from knew or should have known that you did 
not have capacity at the time to make the contract with them. 
Im satisfied NatWest neither knew nor should have known that Mr M lacked capacity 
therefore I cant say that Mr M shouldnt have been held to the terms of that contract, 
however much I know he may want me to.
I understand Mr M wants as much money available to him as possible to fund his university 
course and his future, but I can only order NatWest to refund the ERC to him if Im satisfied it 
did something wrong.
Having considered everything Im satisfied NatWest had no reason to believe Mr M lacked 
capacity, and therefore it was entitled to charge Mr M the ERC set out in his mortgage 
contract when he redeemed his mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman