DRN-1300633
 
The complaint
Mr S, represented by Mrs S, says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm where or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1999 when the card started, although its records 
dont show PPI being charged on the account until 2000. The policy gave Mr S protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S said - that he was unaware he had the policy, and      
Mrs S says he wouldnt have signed for it. There isnt much information to go on in this case, 
because everything happened so long ago. And I dont think its surprising or unreasonable 
Lloyds doesnt have Mr Ss application form any more. It has provided a sample form though 
that shows a customer had to select PPI for it to be added to their account.
I have taken into account Mr Ss comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. So, without stronger evidence, I cant 
fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr S without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to 
take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means Lloyds had to make sure it 
was right for him. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr S told us he had no savings, and he was self-employed so he had no sick pay 
entitlement. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident and 
sickness claims. It also gave Mr S up to 12 months redundancy cover. And the terms of this 
policy made it no harder for someone who was self-employed to make a successful 
unemployment claim. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr S if he was sick 
or lost his job.Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And, given what we know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies at this time, the 
policy wouldve been competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr S was eligible 
for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms and conditions. So 
I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with this sale. I note he told 
us that Lloyds upheld another PPI complaint where the circumstances were exactly the 
same, and this service upheld a second complaint that Lloyds had rejected. But I can only 
comment here on the individual merits of this complaint. I would add that the outcome of 
each complaint varies based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the date 
and method of the sale, the price, the terms of the policy and the credit product it covers.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman