DRN-2876772
The complaint
Mrs R and the estate of Mr R  Ill refer to the consumer as Mrs R from here onwards  
complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has unnecessarily delayed her request for 
permission to divide her property into two separate properties. And Mrs R complains that 
Shawbrook wrote to her at the wrong address several times after shed informed them of the 
correct one.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took a secured loan with Shawbrook for approximately £43,000 in 2013 over a 
nine-year term. They built an additional house within the original plot and planned to divide 
the plot into two separate dwellings  Ill call them address A (the original house) and 
address B (the new house). Sadly, Mr R died in 2017, before work on address B could be 
fully completed. Mrs R decided to continue the work until completion and then move into 
address B so that she could sell address A to repay her loan and supplement her income.
Mrs R says she needed to obtain Shawbrooks permission to change the land certificate for 
address A to enable her to have a separate land certificate for address B. She called 
Shawbrook on 12 November 2019 to start that process. Shawbrook told Mrs R they required 
her to submit a written request for review. Mrs R did so and was asked to pay a fee of £395 
 £270 for solicitors and £75 for administration  and supplied all the information Shawbrook 
requested in a letter dated 2 January 2020.
In January 2020, Mrs R paid a further £570 at Shawbrooks request  £475 for a valuation 
and £95 for administration. Shawbrook did confirm to Mrs R that the valuation was carried 
out and that it was satisfactory, but Mrs R says she has never received a copy of the 
valuation report.
Separately to this, Mrs R sought permission to let address A and this was granted following 
her provision of a tenancy agreement. Mrs R says that, after a three-year period of 
marketing the property for sale, she found a buyer and this increased the urgency from her 
point of view of gaining Shawbrooks permission to divide the property. And Shawbrooks 
apparent inaction added more stress as she became worried about losing that buyer.
Mrs R changed solicitors and informed Shawbrook on 4 August 2020. But Shawbrook still 
failed to provide Mrs R with the permission she sought. Mrs R says Shawbrooks delay 
caused her to have to take a loan from family so that she could maintain her mortgage 
payments.
In April 2021 Mrs R completed the sale of property A and redeemed the mortgage with 
Shawbrook. But Shawbrook still had a charge on property A at that time and required 
discharge documents from Mrs Rs solicitor to release its charge.
Mrs R complained several times during the process outlined above. Ive seen three final 
response letters from Shawbrook dated as follows:
2 September 2020;
23 December 2020;
24 May 2021.
In September 2020, Shawbrook responded apologising for the delay, saying it was partly 
due to a training issue about handing over files from one team to another. It said the file was 
with solicitors and it had no control of the pace of progress because of that. It said it would 
pay Mrs R £50 for the inconvenience caused.
In December 2020 Shawbrook said the delays were due to its solicitor being unable to make 
contact with Mrs Rs solicitor. But it acknowledged it shouldnt have taken it as long as it did 
to acquire the correct contact details, saying it made some errors prolonging the delay. 
Shawbrook said it asked for and was supplied with an individual solicitor contact by Mrs R in 
November 2020 but failed to record the details correctly. It wrote to Mrs R in December 
2020, requesting she contact its solicitor directly, but addressed its letter incorrectly. It 
agreed the length of time to resolve that matter had been excessive and more could have 
been done. It also suggested Mrs R could speed up the process by asking her solicitor to 
contact Shawbrooks solicitor.
Shawbrooks letter of December 2020 also addressed Mrs Rs complaint about sending its 
correspondence to address A rather than address B. It acknowledged that it had sent seven 
letters to the incorrect address, but said it was unable to send regulatory letters to address 
B as the account is registered to address A. That applied to four of the seven letters it said 
had been addressed incorrectly up to that point. It said it would pay Mrs R £80 in that regard.
In May 2021 Shawbrook acknowledged that it hadnt responded to a complaint from Mrs R, 
raised in February 2021. It said that letter referred to a complaint Mrs R made the previous 
year, but it wasnt sure which one. Shawbrooks letter confirmed that Mrs R would like survey 
and solicitors fees refunded, but it didnt address that. 
Our investigator found that many of the delays on the progress of Mrs Rs request were 
unnecessary. She said the details of Mrs Rs solicitor were requested unnecessarily by 
Shawbrook towards the end of September 2020 as it had already received them at the 
beginning of August 2020. Our investigator saw evidence to suggest Shawbrook attempted 
to contact Mrs Rs solicitor in September 2020 but didnt try again until Mrs R called for an 
update on 19 November 2020. Mrs R provided different contact details for her solicitor on 27 
November 2020. Our investigator found that Shawbrook only passed this information to its 
solicitor on 18 December 2020.
Our investigator said she didnt think it was reasonable for Shawbrook to have Mrs R pay a 
fee to start the process in November 2019 and then not attempt to contact her solicitor until 
September 2020. And it didnt request a valuation until three months after Mrs R paid a fee 
for that. Mrs R wasnt updated for a further two months after that. Our investigator saw that 
Mrs R was prompt with her responses to Shawbrooks requests for information and payment 
but Shawbrook failed to take action following those responses. And she saw that Shawbrook 
knew in July 2020 Mrs R had a buyer and in September 2020 that Mrs R was experiencing 
financial difficulty. At the time of making her findings  7 June 2021  our investigator found 
that Mrs R had never received any documentation from Shawbrook showing the valuation or 
whether it had or hadnt agreed to her proposal.
With regard to Mrs Rs complaint about incorrectly addressed letters, our investigator found 
that as Mrs R had made Shawbrook aware of the change, it should have addressed all her 
letters correctly.To put things right, our investigator asked Shawbrook to refund £125 it charged Mrs R in 
administration fees and pay £250 to compensate her for its lack of clarity or consideration for 
her circumstances. She said Shawbrook should also provide her with a copy of the valuation 
documentation. 
Mrs R accepted our investigators findings, but Shawbrook didnt. It said the process couldnt 
start until Mrs R paid the fees and she didnt do that until 28 January 2020. And on 20 July 
2020 it requested more information from Mrs R and passed this to its solicitor once received. 
Shawbrook said it was also provided with incorrect solicitors details and once the matter 
was passed to its own solicitors it had no control over the pace of progress.
Our investigator responded to Shawbrooks objections, but it asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs Rs complaint, Ive thought about whether Shawbrook have acted reasonably 
with regard to the provision of her request and with regard to sending her letters to an 
incorrect address. Ive also considered the impact its actions or lack of action had on Mrs R 
 the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
From the evidence available, Ive been able to see the sequence of events explained in the 
background section above and the findings of our investigator, also outlined above  Ill not 
repeat the whole sequence of events here. I think its clear that Shawbrook failed to take 
action to progress Mrs Rs request when it could have done on several occasions. I think it 
had a duty to her as a customer to make reasonably paced progress and because it had 
charged her for the work it agreed to do.
Specifically, I think Shawbrook could have told Mrs R its full requirements when she first 
made the request in November 2019. Had it done so, it could have started the process much 
sooner than the end of January 2020. And I think it should have instructed the surveyor to 
carry out the valuation when it received Mrs Rs payment, rather than three months after. It 
isnt clear why the matter wasnt referred to Shawbrooks solicitor on receipt of the valuation, 
but Shawbrook has suggested there was a training issue around that time and a problem 
handing over the file from one team to another. Whatever the issue was, it appears to have 
been internal and so not reasonable that Mrs R was adversely affected by it.
Shawbrook has referred to delays around a problem contacting Mrs Rs solicitor, suggesting 
the solicitors contact details were incorrect. However, Ive seen that there were significant 
delays in Shawbrook identifying that problem and bringing it to Mrs Rs attention. 
Perhaps most significantly of all, as recently as June 2021, Mrs R told us:
I never received any copy of the survey or any answers to my request for separation 
of the land at the Land Registry which meant that I could not proceed with the sale. I 
was running short of money to live on because of this and although Shawbrook Bank 
phoned at the time to say that the survey was satisfactory I have nothing in writing 
and the matter never proceeded.
And she confirmed shes still not received any documentation from Shawbrook on 12 
October 2021.From what Mrs R has told us  and Ive seen nothing from Shawbrook to show otherwise  
Shawbrook charged Mrs R for a relatively straightforward service that it has been unable to 
provide in over a year and a half. In that time Mrs R has suffered the inconvenience and 
frustration of chasing Shawbrook numerous times; the worry of losing her buyer; the distress 
of experiencing financial difficulty; and the embarrassment of having to borrow money from 
family. From what Ive seen, Shawbrook had the power to protect Mrs R from all of that, 
simply by handling her request in a way that it would be reasonable for a customer to expect.
Additionally, she wasnt getting letters from Shawbrook because it sent them to the incorrect 
address. Ive seen that Mrs R did inform Shawbrook of the address she would be living in. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable for it to send private and potentially sensitive letters of any 
kind to a different address  whether they deemed those letters of a regulatory nature or 
otherwise.
  
Putting things right
Shawbrook said it would pay Mrs R £50 in respect of the delay caused by the training issue 
and moving her file from one team to another. And it said it would pay her £80 for sending 
letters to the incorrect address. It isnt clear whether it actually made those payments, but in 
addition, I think it should refund the administration fees it charged Mrs R - £95 and £75 
(according to Shawbrooks contact notes). And it should pay Mrs R £250 to compensate for 
the impact its poor handling of the matter has had on her. By that, I mean the inconvenience, 
frustration, worry, distress and embarrassment Ive outlined above. 
As Mrs R has received no valuation report, Shawbrook should also provide that to her, along 
with confirmation it no longer holds a charge on address A, or what it still requires to release 
its charge.
  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs complaint about Shawbrook 
Bank Limited and it should pay her £420 to put things right, in addition to the £130 it 
previously said it would pay. It should also provide Mrs R with a copy of the valuation report 
and confirmation of the charge status.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman