DRN-3110544
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Santander UK Plc suspended his credit card.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr C opened this credit card account. Some unusual activity prompted 
Santander to review the account. They found adverse information, including CIFAS markers, 
registered at an address of his which had not been disclosed when he applied for the card.
Following an investigation, Santander decided to withdraw Mr Cs account. Later, they 
agreed to keep it suspended and to review things again if the markers were lifted.
Mr C complained. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the 
complaint. They explained that Santander were allowed to review the account, and to close it 
based on the information they found out. They pointed out the relevant terms. They thought 
it was reasonable Santander had agreed to look at things again if the markers got removed.
Mr C appealed. He didnt agree with the quoted terms. In relation to the information missing 
from the application, he said Santander were supposed to have carried out checks. He said 
hed done a subject access request and found internal notes which he felt defamed his 
character.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander were entitled to review Mr Cs account and to check things with credit reference 
agencies and fraud databases. They were also allowed to end their relationship with Mr C  
in a similar way to how Mr C was entitled to close his account and end his relationship with 
Santander.
Here, Santander carried out an appropriate investigation and found adverse information 
linked to an address of Mr Cs. This information included, for example, fraud markers and 
defaults. This address had not factored into Santanders checks when Mr C applied for the 
card because it had not been disclosed to them in his application. So their decision to give 
him the credit card had been based on incomplete information.
Santander withdrew Mr Cs facilities in line with the terms and conditions. Further, we dont 
just look at things based on the letter of the regulations or conditions, but also based on 
whats fair and reasonable. And taking into account the results of Santanders investigation, 
together with the fact that they were broadly entitled to choose who they do business with, 
I dont think Santander acted unreasonably here.
Santander also agreed to keep the card suspended for now rather than closed outright, and 
to look at things again if the fraud markers got removed. I think that was reasonable of them.
Mr C says hes seen internal notes which he feels defames his character. Hes not sent us a 
copy of what hes referring to. But in any case, as part of my investigation Ive reviewed the 
relevant information from Santanders internal systems, and Ive not found anything to be 
inappropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman