DRN-3154200
The complaint
Ms T complains that, on several occasions, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), 
maintained that she could access the benefits from her pension plan  either by transferring 
to a drawdown plan with Aviva or transferring to another provider, only to later tell her that 
she wasnt able to complete the transactions. She says that shes borrowed money on the 
expectation of receiving the tax free cash from the pension which is essential to her future 
wellbeing. She now finds herself in debt, unable to sell her house and with a number of 
serious health problems. She wants Aviva to honour the transfer and allow her to access her 
benefits as it said it would.  
What happened
In May 2002 Ms T transferred around £45,000 from her Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) to a pension buyout plan with Aviva. The buyout plan was due to mature in 
September 2021.
But in 2015 Ms T suffered a serious illness which changed her life. She also lost her mother 
and partner over the following two years. So, in preparation for her future, she subsequently 
set up a new business venture and decided to use her pension benefits to fund changes to 
her property and the costs of setting up the business. She says that in April 2019, following a 
visit from an Aviva adviser, she was told she could take around £30,000 as a tax free lump 
sum, with a residual income, from the buyout plan. She thought a monthly income of £1,000 
for three years would be beneficial until she could review her position at state pension age. 
Ms T says she was told this would all be in place by September 2019.
Ms T began the work on her house using funds shed secured elsewhere on the basis of 
spending her imminent tax free cash. But in late May 2019, she was advised by Aviva that 
because the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) wasnt covered, it couldnt agree to a 
transfer to an Aviva drawdown plan and release the tax free cash. 
Ms T was then referred to another adviser who, after some delay due to issues with Ms Ts 
updated address and the need to provide evidence of her previous salary, tried to arrange a 
transfer to another provider. A letter dated 1 August 2019 from Aviva to Ms Ts adviser 
confirmed that the transfer value was higher than the current fund value, and so there was 
no restriction on transferring the policy proceeds to another pension arrangement. 
Unfortunately, because of the need to check whether there was any transitional tax free cash 
allowed, there was a delay in applying for the transfer. But by 7 October 2019 Aviva began 
the process and advised that it was prepared to use a telegraphic transfer to complete the 
transfer quicker. However, on 23 October 2019 it was confirmed by Aviva that the transfer 
value wasnt sufficient to cover the cost of the GMP. 
Ms Ts adviser complained about this matter. He said Ms T was now in poor health which 
hadnt been helped by Avivas delays and then refusal to carry out the transfer. 
He said it had taken three months to find out that Ms T couldnt transfer and achieve the 
objectives that Aviva had recommended to her  which he didnt think was acceptable.
Aviva looked into the complaint and found that, while it had made the correct investigations 
to confirm the policy couldnt be transferred in June 2019, it had made numerous 
confirmations thereafter that the GMP was covered and the plan could be transferred. It 
apologised for the impact this had on Ms T and her health and sent her a cheque for £200 
compensation. 
In February 2020 the adviser contacted Aviva again to request a transfer. He received 
correspondence to say that a transfer would be possible, but the following month Aviva 
confirmed that it wasnt possible. Around the same time Ms Ts own financial adviser made 
enquiries around her plan and was also told that a transfer was possible.
But subsequently the transfer still hasnt completed, because on each attempt to transfer the 
fund hasnt been sufficient to cover the GMP when Aviva recalculated the value prior to 
transfer.
Ms T didnt believe that Avivas offer of compensation was enough and thought it should 
have honoured its promise and allowed her to take her benefits or transfer to another 
provider. So she brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter and said the complaint should be partially upheld  making the following points:
Aviva could have made Ms T aware that a transfer couldnt be made sooner than it 
did in May 2019. 
Most of the delays with the second request werent caused by Aviva  although it 
could have provided the information requested by Ms Ts adviser quicker.
But Aviva hadnt acted unfairly by not allowing the transfers because the GMP wasnt 
covered. So it hadnt done anything wrong in declining the transfers.
But Aviva had raised Ms Ts expectations in confirming payment of the tax free cash 
before it carried out manual calculations. This raising of expectations had a major 
impact on Ms Ts life due to her health and money problems at the time. 
So Aviva should pay an additional £300 on top of the £200 it had already paid.
Ms T didnt agree with the compensation amount the investigator had proposed. She said it 
wasnt sufficient and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so the 
complaint was been passed to me for a review. 
In disagreeing Ms T explained that during the 12 months the transfer process has been 
ongoing she has suffered significant problems as set out below:
Because she didnt receive the £30,000 lump sum, shes now £27,000 in debt. 
She hasnt been able to afford some of her essential household bills  leading to 
arrears in some cases.
She hasnt been able to make some of the necessary, health related alterations to 
her property.
She hasnt been able to make the necessary property conversions to start her 
business so hasnt been able to earn any income.
Her overall health has deteriorated, and shes been now been diagnosed with anxiety 
and depression.
She now receives state benefits and cant afford to repay her debts or even sell her 
property.
Ms T says she doesnt understand how Aviva can get away with agreeing a transfer and 
then later changing its mind on more than one occasion.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Ms Ts complaint in part. I said that Aviva 
shouldnt have to honour the transfers  but should pay Ms T an additional amount of 
compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused in having her expectations 
raised. I made the following points in support of my findings:
Ms Ts plan included GMP rights which meant that drawing the benefits or
transferring them to another provider could only be agreed if the fund size could 
support full payment of the GMP. And the ancillary benefits  such as tax free cash  
could only be paid if the pension fund was sufficient to cover the GMP and those 
ancillary benefits. In Ms Ts case, each time Aviva had recalculated the benefits prior 
to agreeing a transfer, it had found the GMP wasnt covered and therefore had to 
decline the transfer. The receiving provider here had also indicated that it wouldnt 
honour the GMP if it wasnt covered by the transfer value  so Aviva wouldnt agree 
to the transfer. 
So Aviva wasnt obliged to pay the tax free cash and residual income it said it could 
in 2019, because it wouldnt have been possible to do so in this situation. And it had 
previously made Ms T aware, through  its terms and conditions (T&Cs) and annual 
statements, that if the cost of providing the GMP couldnt be met before her state 
pension age (SPA) she wouldnt be able to access or transfer her benefits. 
But Ms T wouldnt have known, at any particular point in time, whether the benefits 
were covered by the GMP. So I would have expected Aviva to make her aware of the 
situation relatively quickly on each occasion an application was made. 
I didnt think Aviva had always acted reasonably with those communications and I 
thought it had raised her expectations of receiving the tax free cash on a number of 
occasions  which Aviva had accepted too. I thought Aviva should pay Ms T an 
additional £300, making £500 in total, for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused in raising her expectations. 
Ms T had referred to her difficult current financial position and in particular the debts 
she incurred as a result of borrowing funds before shed received the tax free cash 
she had expected. But Id found that the funds had been borrowed, using both a 
large provider and members of her family, before the advice process had begun  so 
I didnt think Aviva should have to repay any of the interest Ms T had incurred.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said it had nothing further to add, but Ms T didnt agree with my provisional decision 
making the following points:
Because of the failure to complete the transfer from Aviva to another provider shed 
had to remortgage her property to repay the outstanding debts. She wanted to 
provide evidence of the remortgage in support of her claim that any associated costs 
 including interest payments, should be met by the other parties involved.
Recently shed applied to Aviva to draw the benefits from her plan. But she was 
concerned about the delay in providing her with the figures and also that shed 
become aware that to receive the entire tax free lump sum of 25% was not viable.
Shed been told originally that at retirement she could expect full tax free cash, either 
alongside an annuity or income drawdown. But now shes been informed that shell 
receive £9,676.11 of tax free cash with a residual income  which wouldnt cover the 
outstanding debts she had to pay off. 
In the two and a half years that had passed since the start of the process her health 
had significantly deteriorated. She wanted to know if she would able to draw her 
pension benefits  regardless of the sums involved, without affecting her ongoing 
complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, and in particular having considered Ms Ts further submissions, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I know this matter has caused Ms T a great 
deal of frustration and worry and I have some sympathy for the difficult position she now 
finds herself in. So I hope my decision, while not being the outcome she would have hoped 
for, will go some way to explaining the position here and giving her some closure on a very 
difficult situation.
Firstly, Id like to answer the points that Ms T made in response to my provisional decision as 
I dont think they are completely relevant to this complaint. 
Ms T has questioned the amount of tax free cash shes going to receive when she draws her 
pension benefits  which wont be the full 25% of the fund that she was expecting.  I know 
the investigator has explained to Ms T that, as part of the rules around the GMP, the fund 
value has to cover the GMP at SPA even if that causes a shortfall in the fund. But that 
doesnt extend to ancillary benefits such as tax free cash for example  which will only be 
paid out after the obligation to cover the GMP is met. In this case there arent sufficient funds 
left to meet the usual 25% tax free cash lump sum commitment. 
So Ms T needs to raise her concerns about the amount of tax free cash she says she was 
promised, with the businesses that gave her that information in the first instance. 
Likewise, where Ms T has raised concerns about the delays in receiving the documentation 
required to draw her pension benefits, she needs to raise this as a new complaint with Aviva 
if its not been resolved at this point. If she remains unhappy with the outcome shes free to 
bring it to us as a new complaint. 
Ms T also told us about a remortgage shed taken out to repay her debts as a result of not 
receiving the expected tax free cash lump sum. But she has confirmed that this was taken 
out in March 2020, so it wasnt as a result of Avivas earlier advice. Ms T had already taken 
out loans in March 2019 in advance of receiving the cash  which Ill cover below. So I dont 
think the question of the remortgage is relevant to this complaint, although Ms T has already 
been made aware that she could raise this as another complaint point with the relevant 
parties if she felt it was appropriate. 
The entitlement to tax free cash
Ms T first became eligible to draw her pension benefits in 2016, although she deferred them 
until 2021. But within the anniversary statement she received in 2016 it was stated that, 
your future pension benefits include GMP rights, which means that the future pension 
benefits payable at 60 will not be less than the GMP. Taking the benefits earlier may be 
possible assuming that fund value is sufficient to provide the GMP at your state pension 
age.
This set out the position going forward in that, whether Ms T wanted to draw her benefits or 
transfer them before 2021, this would be dependent on the GMP being covered. 
And ancillary benefits  like tax free cash could only be paid after the GMP was covered if 
there were enough residual funds.  This situation was also explained in other documentation such as the August 2019 letter to 
Ms Ts adviser which said, this policy includes rights to a GMP at SPA. If this policy is 
transferred away from us, this GMP benefit will be lost unless the policy is transferred to 
another scheme or provider that is able and willing to take on the responsibility for providing 
the same guarantee.  
So Im satisfied that Aviva did explain its position regarding the need to cover the GM. 
Therefore I think it was reasonable for Aviva to invoke that condition every time Ms T applied 
to draw her tax free cash either internally through Aviva or by transferring to another provider 
using a different adviser. Aviva was only obliged to cover the GMP at SPA, or in this case 
the date to which Ms T deferred the drawing of her benefits, so when it carried out the 
necessary recalculations following Ms Ts transfer requests and found that the GMP wasnt 
covered I think it was fair for Aviva not to agree to transfer. 
I know Ms T says that Aviva gave her every indication that she could draw her tax free cash 
of around £30,000 from the plan on numerous occasions, I havent seen anything to show 
that Aviva guaranteed this to be the case. So I dont think it promised Ms T anything 
unconditionally. But ultimately on each occasion she applied to draw her benefits or transfer 
them the GMP wasnt covered and so Aviva couldnt carry out the transaction. 
The raising of expectations 
Having established and then concluded that Ms T wasnt able to receive the tax free cash 
she said she was encouraged to think shed get, Ive gone on to look at whether Aviva made 
this position clear to Ms T and whether it communicated this information quickly enough. 
Ms T wouldnt have known that when she was advised that a transfer could go ahead there 
was a possibility of that position changing if the final recalculation showed the GMP not then 
to be covered. She was likely to take quick and decisive action to get the work started on her 
property and get her business underway if she believed it was probable that the tax free 
cash would be paid to her imminently. 
So I would have expected Aviva to have made Ms T aware of the possibility that the GMP 
might not be covered and to have conveyed that message as soon as was possible. But 
when Ms T made her first request in May 2019 it took over four weeks until Aviva referred 
her request to another adviser  without telling her that the transfer might not be possible. 
And the next request in August 2019 took until 23 October 2019 to be declined  although 
there were other mitigating circumstances here. 
However, Aviva itself acknowledged that, on multiple occasions, Aviva incorrectly 
confirmed, although your policy did have a GMP, the value of your pension was high enough 
to cover it, and youd therefore be able to take your pension benefits or transfer out with no 
issue. There were several delays in having the transfer processed which led to your financial 
adviser having to call, numerous times, to chase I apologise, for the trouble, stress and 
upset caused by our numerous errors and delays.
So it was clear that Aviva did raise Ms Ts expectations around drawing her tax free cash, 
both in the significant number of transfer packs it issued  without suggesting there might be 
any issues with completing the transfer, and also through the length of time  on occasions - 
that Aviva took to tell Ms T that it couldnt go ahead with the transfer. 
Ive looked therefore at the effect this had on Ms T, to consider whether shes suffered 
distress and inconvenience and what impact it may have had.  
The distress and inconvenience causedMs T has explained to us in great detail the impact Avivas actions had on her. She says 
that, following a meeting with its adviser in April 2019, she was left in no doubt that shed be 
able to access the (approximate) £30,000 tax free cash lump from her pension to meet her 
objectives. She says she borrowed the funds required on the strength of Avivas 
recommendation  and as a result shes now in debt and hasnt been able to adapt her 
property and start her business  so she hasnt been able to earn an income. She also says 
this has caused her health to deteriorate.
I do have sympathy for the impact this has had on Ms T and while I cant say whether she 
would have made the choices she did anyway, I think its fair to say that its more likely than 
not that Avivas actions in raising her expectations were a factor in Ms T making some of the 
decisions that she made. In my view Ms Ts situation at the time of her meeting with Aviva 
meant that she was likely to embrace the financial opportunity it said it could offer her from 
her pension and I can understand why she took steps to secure those funds in advance of 
them being released from the tax free lump sum. 
I might usually conclude that its inadvisable to borrow on the strength of forthcoming events 
for the reasons that played out here, but in this case I can understand why Ms T took the 
actions that she did.
Putting things right
So, looking at the impact this had on Ms T, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay a 
total of £500  so an additional £300 on top of the £200 its already paid  for the trouble and 
upset caused by the delays in making Ms T aware that the transfer requests couldnt be 
completed and the initial raising of her expectations around the amount of tax free cash she 
could release towards her goals. 
I did also consider whether Aviva should have to contribute towards the interest on the loans 
Ms T took out in advance of her potential tax free cash proceeds. But from the evidence I 
was provided with, it would seem that the loans were secured in February and March 2019  
which was in advance of the first meeting Ms T had with Aviva to discuss her situation. So I 
cant reasonably say that Ms T took out the loans as a result of Avivas advice and therefore  
it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Aviva to repay any of the interest Ms T has incurred.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I uphold Ms Ts complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in part. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Ms T an additional £300.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman