DRN-4094456
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd declined her claim on her 
motor warranty. 
What happened
Mrs M had a motor warranty that was underwritten by Fortegra. In July 2022 Mrs M took her 
car to a garage after the oil warning light appeared on her dashboard. While it was with the 
garage for repairs the engine seized and the car required further inspection to determine the 
problem. 
She contacted Fortegra who advised the engine would need to be stripped in order to 
determine the issue. Mrs M arranged this and the engineer diagnosed the issue and fitted a 
new starter motor and timing chain. However this didnt resolve the issue and so Fortegra 
sent its own expert to assess the car in order to determine the issue and assess if it was 
covered under warranty. 
On inspection its engineer concluded the damage was due to wear and tear and a new 
engine would be required. Based on this, Fortegra declined the claim as damage caused by 
wear and tear wasnt covered by the warranty. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this. She said she was now left with a car that had been dismantled 
and had to cover the cost of this herself, when shed been led to believe this would be 
covered under the warranty. She made a complaint but Fortegra didnt uphold it. So she 
brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that the expert report 
concludes that the damage is due to wear and tear and in the absence of any expert 
evidence to dispute this, he found it persuasive and therefore thought Fortegra had acted 
fairly and reasonably by declining the claim.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the warranty, Fortegra is entitled to appoint its own expert to diagnose the issue. Ive 
looked at the report and it concludes that the damage to the engine is due to wear and tear. 
The policy states it covers:
The actual breakage of a mechanical component or the complete failure of an electrical 
component not by wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence
So Im satisfied its declined the claim in line with the warranty terms. 
Mrs M has disputed the findings of the expert report. She says there was no indication of a 
fault as the report suggests and she has a full service history, so its clear she kept the car 
well maintained. While I appreciate her frustrations, as the engineer who inspected the 
vehicle is an expert in diagnosing vehicle faults Im more persuaded by his findings. And in 
the absence of any expert opinion to the contrary, I think Fortegra acted fairly by declining 
the claim based on the experts findings.
Mrs M has also said that under the direction of Fortegra, shes had to have the engine 
dismantled and it is now refusing to cover that cost which she didnt think was fair. 
The warranty states under how to claim:
If the cause of your breakdown is not obvious, it may be necessary to dismantle the vehicle 
to some extent. This will be done only on your authority and the cost of this will be your 
responsibility at this stage.
So while Mrs M was following the direction of Fortegra, she did authorise the engine to be 
stripped. And its reasonable, and in line with the warranty terms, that the cost of this is Mrs 
Ms responsibility before the claim is accepted. As the fault has since been shown not to be 
covered under the warranty, Fortegra arent liable for any related costs. And therefore has 
acted reasonably by declining to cover the cost of the initial investigations. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman