DRN-1902008
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he was unable to access his internet banking with TSB Bank plc which 
he says led to financial loss. He wants TSB Bank plc to reimburse his expenses. He also 
says that TSB Bank plc didnt telephone him about his complaint.
What happened
In April 2018 TSB Bank plc upgraded their systems. They encountered significant difficulties 
during this process, and a number of customers were affected by the problems they 
experienced at this time.
Mr M was unable to access his online banking so he complained to TSB Bank plc and said 
that he wasnt able to pay important invoices on time. On 22 May 2018, TSB Bank plc wrote 
to Mr M and thanked him for letting them know about the difficulties he has had with their 
service. They apologised and said they would do all they can to put things right. They 
explained that their system upgrade had led to a large number of complaints so it would take 
them longer than normal to resolve Mr Ms issue. TSB Bank plc then wrote to Mr M on        
11 July 2018 and said they would be responding in writing with their final response.
  
TSB Bank plc wrote to Mr M on 12 October to respond to his complaint. They noted his 
complaint was about not being able to access his internet banking so he was unable to pay 
invoices and was charged. They offered to pay £100 for any distress and inconvenience and 
£50 for any expenses. They said they felt £50 would cover Mr Ms expenses but if he could 
show he had incurred more than this then he should let them know so they could make sure 
he wasnt left out of pocket.
 
TSB Bank plc then paid £150 into Mr Ms account on 13 October.
 
TSB Bank plc say that Mr M then contacted them in January 2019 as he hadnt heard back 
from them and wanted to query why he had received £150 into his account. They said there 
was some confusion about whether his complaint was open or not. They explained to him 
that the £150 was paid to settle his complaint. Mr M wasnt happy about this and said it 
wasnt enough to cover his losses. TSB Bank plc wrote again and said they had carried out 
another review and felt the decision they had already provided was fair. 
    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and wrote to TSB Bank plc for their comments. 
They explained that they had experienced problems with their online banking service in April 
2018 following a system update, this was widely reported in the media. They explained that 
the problem lasted longer than they expected and customers were then able to access their 
online banking later in the week. They said that customers could still use debit cards and 
cash machines.
   
TSB Bank plc said that, they responded to the complaint on 12 October 2018 and, given that 
the complaint was straightforward, they decided not to telephone Mr M.  
Mr M says that he was charged £200 for missing payment of an invoice. Our investigator has 
asked for evidence of this but we havent received any information which shows Mr M had to 
pay this charge. Mr M said that he had provided evidence of this to a TSB Bank plc branch 
so our investigator checked with them but they didnt have any record of this. 
Our investigator agreed there had been an error here and the £150 already paid to Mr M 
was a fair outcome. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons.
 
The information shows there was an error by TSB Bank plc, the system upgrade led to Mr M 
not having access to his online banking. The issue that affected Mr Ms account is typical of 
those experienced by many thousands of other TSB Bank plc customers following the 
system upgrade in April 2018.  
Looking at the impact on Mr M, it is clear that he was unable to access his online banking for 
a short period of time, which was both a worry and an inconvenience. To consider the wider 
impact, I have looked at his bank statements for his accounts. This shows that day to day 
activity was very limited. In the main, they show only a payment in of £500 and a payment 
out of £503 each month. TSB Bank plc say this is to meet the minimum criteria to qualify for 
interest. Given the limited activity, I dont think this was Mr Ms main bank account. I feel the 
impact here is limited given that the information shows this account wasnt being used 
regularly throughout the month. Therefore, having no access to the online banking feature 
for a short period of time, wouldnt have had a significant impact on Mr M.       
Mr M says that he was charged £200 for missing payment of an invoice. He says this was a 
monthly payment towards car finance and, in the month when the error occurred, he was 
due to make a final payment to close the finance. We asked him to provide us with any 
supporting evidence he had, but unfortunately he hasnt been able to do so. I can see that 
he says he gave evidence of this to a branch of TSB Bank plc but our investigator has 
approached them to check this but they dont have any evidence of this. 
I can see that Mr M is also upset that TSB Bank plc didnt contact him by telephone to 
discuss his complaint. I understand why Mr M wanted to discuss his complaint and to be 
given an opportunity to explain the expenses he had incurred. In considering TSB Bank plcs 
approach to dealing with the matter, I have to take account of the number of complaints they 
received. There were a significant number of complaints and, given the resource that would 
be needed to handle the complaints, I dont think TSB Bank plcs decision to respond in 
writing was unfair or unreasonable. I can also see that, in their letter of 11 July 2018, TSB 
Bank plc did let Mr M know they would write to him with their response to his complaint.    
Taking these points into account, I agree an award should reflect the worry and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. I have also taken account of the relatively short period of 
time the problem continued and there being no evidence of a significant impact on Mr M. I 
feel that the payment of £150 already made by TSB Bank plc is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc have already paid £100 for compensation and £50 for expenses to Mr M to 
settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. I wont be asking TSB 
Bank plc to take any further steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman