DRN-3356623
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund payments she says 
she didnt make from her account. 
What happened
Miss L says that she met someone through social media. He said he would buy her clothes 
and asked for her address to send them to. He then asked Miss L for her online banking 
details and started to threaten her, saying he knew her address. Miss L provided her online 
banking details. She saw transfers from her account and asked him to stop but he continued 
to threaten her. Miss L says the fraudster made transfers to accounts of individuals shed 
never met of £1 on 3 December and £500 then £1,500 on 6 December 2021. 
Miss L reported the loss of £2,001 to Barclays on 6 December 2021 but later withdrew the 
fraud claim saying she had transferred funds to two different strangers when she was drunk, 
but the funds were being returned to her. A few days later Miss L told Barclays she was 
receiving back to back calls asking for money and explained she was the victim of a scam as 
shed been asked to make transactions on her account. 
Barclays advised Miss L it wouldnt re-open the fraud claim and issued a summary resolution 
letter. As Miss L was unhappy with Barclays response, she brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Ls complaint asked Barclays for its file and chased 
this up, but in the absence of a response issued a view. She considered Miss Ls complaint 
under the CRM Code and didnt recommend that it be upheld. Miss L didnt agree with the 
investigator and so her complaint has been referred to me. I asked Barclays to provide its file 
so that I could establish if Miss Ls complaint is one we can consider and, if so, what I think 
about it. 
Once Miss Ls complaint was passed to me to investigate Barclays provided its file, which I 
reviewed. I decided that the best way to progress Miss Ls complaint was to issue a 
provisional decision that allowed both parties the opportunity to respond and provide 
additional evidence. In the What Ive provisionally decided and why section of the 
provisional decision I issued on 18 August 2022 I said, 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Miss L has consistently told this service that she didnt make the payments herself but 
provided a fraudster with her internet banking log in details. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss L isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise or otherwise consent to, unless she failed with intent or gross 
negligence, to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account security details 
safe. 
Its not entirely clear whether the payments Miss L has disputed were authorised or not. 
Barclays hasnt provided any evidence in respect of authentication or consent (as it hasnt 
considered these points). But I dont think that matters in this case because even if they 
were unauthorised, Im satisfied that Miss L failed with intent or gross negligence to take 
reasonable steps to keep her personalised security details safe. These regulatory 
requirements are also reflected in the terms and conditions of her account which say.
You must do all you reasonably can to keep your payment tools safe. You must look 
after all the ways of taking money from or accessing your account
You must not give your payment tools to anyone else. If someone takes money from 
your account because you have not kept your payment tools safe or secret when you should 
have done, you may lose all the money...
If you think someone has used or is able to use any of the ways of accessing to your 
account, you must tell us as soon as you can.
A payment tool is defined and includes passwords and personal identifiers. The terms and 
conditions go on to say that a customer must not give their payment tools to anyone else or 
allow anyone else to use them. 
Miss L shared her details with someone else, and that person used them to make the 
payments. I appreciate that Mrs L didnt give her permission to make the payments but am 
satisfied that by providing the information she is still liable for the disputed transactions. 
I also understand that Miss L shared her details because she was being threatened. This is 
a matter for the police and something Miss L could have reported to them. Miss L could also 
have asked Barclays to block her account so that even though shed provided her internet 
banking log-in details her account couldnt be accessed. 
The outcome would be the same if I determined that the transactions were authorised. In 
those circumstances Id consider Miss Ls claim under the Lending Standard Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). Under the CRM Code Miss L wouldnt 
be entitled to a refund if she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate payment. I dont consider Miss L met the standard required of her under the CRM 
Code to receive a refund as she breached the terms and conditions of her account and gave 
a third party log in details and access to her account.
Service
Im uncertain why Barclays didnt fully investigate Miss Ls fraud claim and advised her it 
couldnt re-open her claim. It seems to me that Miss L explained that she was the victim of a 
scam on 9 December 2021, but Barclays issued a summary resolution letter on 20 
December and refused to look into Mrs Ls claim further. Barclays may wish to explain its 
reasoning, but on the facts I have Im not persuaded Barclays acted reasonably and believe 
this decision has caused Miss L unnecessary stress and inconvenience when she was 
already worried about the fact her account was overdrawn by nearly £2,000. In recognition of 
this, Im provisionally minded to require Barclays to pay Miss L £150 compensation. I will 
consider any comments Barclays make in response to this provisional decision carefully as it 
may be that Ive not been presented with all the evidence.  
Im really sorry to hear about what happened to Miss L and know shell be disappointed with 
my provisional decision, but I cant reasonably ask Barclays to refund her lost funds. 
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said it agreed to pay £150 
compensation, but Miss L didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Barclays agreed with my provisional decision (set out above) and Miss L hasnt 
responded I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
Barclays should pay Miss L £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman