DRN-3227524
The complaint
Mrs Js complaint is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
mis-sold her a free standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) policy. Mrs J says 
taking this policy was not a suitable option given her circumstances at the time.
What happened
On 1 February 1998 Mrs J had a meeting with a Sun Life representative (tied advisor). 
Advice was given to Mrs J around her pension requirements.
Sun Life has provided a copy of the fact find document that was produced as a result of what 
was discussed during the meeting.
The fact find included details about Mrs Js age, employer, salary, marital status and 
dependents. The fact find also showed that Mrs J was enrolled on her employers pension 
scheme and owned her own home with a mortgage.
In addition to the above information the fact find also recorded that Mrs J may wish to 
change her profession in the future.
The advisor recommended that Mrs J should take out a FSAVC policy as it was possible to 
port the policy should she change her employer. It was agreed that Mrs J would contribute 
£50 each month to the policy. In May 1998 Mrs J was advised to contribute an additional £50 
per month to the policy. 
Our Investigator considered Mrs Js complaint and didnt think the advisor had done 
everything they should have at the time they sold the policy. He found that had the advisor 
done everything they should have Mrs J would have taken an in-house additional voluntary 
contribution (AVC) policy.
As Sun Life didnt agree this case has been passed to me to deicide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the advisor did everything he should have at the time of the 
policy sale. Tied advisors at the time of the sale were required to follow the rules set out by 
the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). 
The rules say that the advice tied advisors gave should include that:
In-house money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVC
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme, particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit 
linked to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which 
were available under an FSAVC
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer 
paid into either in-house option
The recommendation written by the advisor states:
 Having discussed the generic differences between in house AVCs and FSAVCs you have 
decided to do an FSAVC because of portability between employers.
There is no other evidence within the document that shows the generic benefits were 
discussed, including that it was likely an in-house AVC would be cheaper.
Mrs J says she may have looked to change her employer in the long term, but it is possible 
her new employer would also have offered a similar in-house AVC with preferential terms 
that would have been suitable for her. It is also unlikely her in-house arrangement would 
have imposed any penalty if she left the scheme due to a change in employment.
Had Mrs J been given the required information from the outset I think it is likely she would 
have opted to take the in-house AVC option as it likely offered her substantially the same 
product at a cheaper cost and I dont think the flexibility of the FSAVC would have 
outweighed this.
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) should undertake a redress calculation in
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment 
below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available 
for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) should use the CAPS mixed with 
property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return 
Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman