DRN-2541501
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services didnt correctly apply a lump sum she made as part-payment towards her hire 
purchase agreement. She says this has resulted in her having to pay more interest than she 
should. She wants the extra interest to be refunded.  
What happened
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by her daughter but for ease of reading Ill just refer to 
Mrs A.
Mrs A tells us that in April 2018 she acquired a new motor vehicle on a hire purchase 
agreement. She says that in March 2020 she paid a lump sum of £8,000 towards the 
outstanding balance. Intending that this would reduce the level of the remaining monthly 
payments she would have to pay. She explains that upon checking her account, she later 
noticed that the same monthly payments were being taken. Mrs A states she tried to resolve 
the issue with Audi but was unable to do so. Mrs A confirms that the payment was eventually 
allocated and her monthly payment was reduced to around £50. She says that shes since 
made another lump sum payment to further reduce the remaining balance on her account.
Audi told us that it accepted that Mrs A had made the payment of £8,000. But it said that Mrs 
A hadnt contacted it about this payment. And as the payment hadnt been expected it 
remained simply as a credit. Audi later offered to pay interest on the sum from the date it 
received the payment to the date the sum had been allocated to the account on 27 August 
2020. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mrs A had 
made it clear that she wanted the payment to reduce the level of the instalments on the 
agreement. He recommended that Audi apply the payment from the date it was received. 
And refund the difference on those monthly instalments which were affected. Along with £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Audi didnt fully accept the investigators view. But in an attempt to settle the complaint it 
offered to pay interest from the date it received the payment to the date the sum had been 
allocated to the account in August 2020. It calculated this at £291.07. And it also agreed to 
pay £75 goodwill to Mrs A.
Mrs A didnt accept this offer. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs A would be concerned that after shed made this substantial lump sum 
payment, she didnt see any immediate reduction in her monthly payments.
Theres no material dispute about the basic facts. The hire purchase agreement originally 
required Mrs A to make an advance payment and then monthly payments of £238.56 for a 
period of 35 months. Followed by a final payment, if she wanted to purchase the vehicle 
outright.
Mrs A made a lump sum payment of £8,000 in March 2020. And whilst she intended this to 
go towards reducing the balance on her hire purchase agreement (thereby lowering the 
monthly payments), it was some months before Audi applied it to her account. The result 
was that Mrs A continued to pay the same amount of the original contractual instalments.
When a consumer chooses to make an early payment to partly repay a debt arising from a 
regulated hire purchase agreement, the consumer is usually entitled to a rebate. This rebate 
is to be calculated in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004. These regulations are in place to ensure borrowers dont pay all the interest due under 
the agreement when repaying their loan early.
Clause 7.1 of the agreement confirmed Mrs As entitlement to make early repayments.  And 
clause 7.2 states that if the early repayment only discharges part of the remaining debt it 
would be for Audi to decide if it should apply the sum so as to lower the amount of the future 
monthly payments. Or reduce the number of remaining payments which would be required.
Put simply, the first option means that Audi would recalculate and reduce the monthly 
payments but these would still be payable over the full term of the agreement. The second 
option would mean that monthly payments stayed at the same rate but that the number of 
future instalments required would be reduced. The clause said that Audi would notify Mrs A 
which option it decided would apply.
When the lump sum payment was made, I suspect that what then happened was a genuine 
misunderstanding between the parties. Mrs A thought she was making the repayment so as 
to reduce the amount shed be paying each month. Audi says the lump sum was received 
but wasnt allocated. As it hasnt received instructions. I take this to mean that Audi is 
saying it was unsure of why the payment had been made.
Ive listened to a telephone call that Mrs A made to Audi. Apparently, this was on the date 
the lump sum was paid. During that call she said that she was speaking whilst at the bank. 
And wanted to confirm that as she was making a payment of more than £5,000, she needed 
to do this by bank transfer. The call handler confirmed this and provided the details of the 
receiving bank account. 
I think it was clear from this call that Mrs A was intending to reduce her indebtedness rather 
than settle the entire debt. And that shed have reasonably expected the payment to be 
allocated immediately.
When Mrs A discovered that her monthly payments werent lowered, she contacted Audi. 
And I understand that the lump sum was allocated to the account on 27 August 2020.  Mrs A 
says that she is now paying only £50 per month. From this I infer that Audi opted to apply the 
rebate to reduce the level of instalments rather than the length of the agreement.
I think its clear from the contents of the phone call to which Ive referred earlier that Mrs A 
made clear the payment was intended as an early partial settlement. And I find that Audi 
should have allocated it to her account upon the payment being received. Had it done so 
Mrs A wouldve benefitted from the reduced monthly instalments much earlier than she did.I did ask our investigator to contact Audi and ask if it would retrospectively apply the lump 
sum from the date it received the payment. But Audi replied saying that it was physically 
unable to achieve this outcome. Im bound to say that I find this somewhat surprising. Partial 
early repayments arent uncommon and its hard to imagine that the current situation hasnt 
previously arisen.
The precise formula by which the rebate is calculated is complex. And its usually done by 
automated means. So Im not able to give a precise amount which Mrs A has paid over and 
above the amount shed have paid had the lump sum been allocated immediately.
Acknowledging that there may be difficulties in making the calculation retrospectively, I still 
feel thats whats required. At the very least it should be possible to get close to the precise 
figure, as its known what reduction in monthly instalments resulted from the allocation in 
August 2020.
Putting things right 
To put things right Audi needs to:
 Apply the lump sum payment of £8,000 made by Mrs A to her account from the date it was 
received. And re-calculate the monthly instalments due from that date;
 Refund to Mrs A any excess amount paid by her which arises from the above recalculation, 
together with simple interest of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
 Pay £75 to Mrs A for distress an inconvenience.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services 
to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman