DRN-3382402
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) reported a Q status marker 
to his credit file following a refund, which carried a negative status with one of the credit 
referencing agencies. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Nationwide correctly reported the Q status to the credit reference agencies when a 
Visa dispute was raised on Mr Hs credit card. They are required to report such 
statuses (which mean there has been a query raised about the account information). 
So, Nationwide have not acted unfairly or made a mistake by reporting the status. 
They have confirmed that they do not report this as adverse information, but it 
appears that Equifax are classifying it as such. Nationwide have said they are 
seeking an industry-wide resolution to this issue. However, given that Equifax are 
reporting the status as adverse information, Nationwide have nevertheless removed 
the Q status from his file as a result. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the issue Mr H has complained about in the circumstances, and I dont 
think they need to take any further action.
Nationwide initially said they would make an amendment to Mr Hs credit file after he 
complained, which later transpired to be incorrect as they said the Q status was an 
accurate record they had to report. I understand this would have been frustrating, as 
it left Mr H feeling like he had been misled. Nationwide have acknowledged that they 
gave incorrect information as they shouldnt have told him they would be able to 
remove the Q status from his credit file given that it was not an adverse record. And 
they offered £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
misleading information. Given the status has now been removed from Mr Hs record 
any way, I consider this to be fair compensation in the circumstances, particularly as 
Mr H has not been able to demonstrate any other negative impact. 
Mr H has said that he also wants this service to explain whether Nationwides 
approach is compliant with regulatory requirements, as well as confirmation that they 
have now changed their processes to prevent this from happening in the future. 
However, I have explained to Mr H that the remit of this service does not extend to 
enforcing regulations or compelling a business to change its commercial practices, 
as this would fall within the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority as the regulator. 
Our role is to consider the merits of individual disputes, as well as considering 
whether a business needs to take any action to put things right for a particular 
consumer (who must still be an eligible complainant of the firm). We cannot consider 
or comment on Nationwides wider business practices, apart from how they are 
applied on an individual basis if it has resulted in an unfair outcome for a customer. 
However, if Mr H has wider concerns about Nationwides practices, he may wish to 
raise these directly with the FCA.
In terms of Mr Hs complaint, he has not been able to point to any specific regulation 
that Nationwide has breached by reporting the Q status to his credit file, particularly 
when the firms overarching obligation is to report accurate data to the credit 
referencing agencies. It is seemingly only one of those referencing agencies that 
considers the Q status as adverse. But that would be an issue for the relevant 
agency to address in any event, rather than it being any breach of Nationwides, and 
I understand they are currently in discussion with UK Finance over such matters as 
well. 
I appreciate that Mr H is looking for Nationwide to make wider changes to their business 
practices as part of the resolution to his complaint. But as Ive explained, this is not 
something I could do within this final decision even if I thought it was warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman