DRN-3430375
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs M travelled abroad to a country Ill refer to as P on 18 March 2020. Prior to 
them travelling, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared 
Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. And, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCDO) advised against all travel abroad. 
Mr A and Mrs Ms return flights were cancelled and they had to book alternative flights home. 
They claimed on their travel insurance policy for the cost of the new flights home. UKI 
declined the claim as Mr A and Mrs M had travelled against FCDO advice. Mr A and Mrs M 
complained  UKI maintained their decision to decline the claim. But UKI acknowledged they 
could have declined the claim sooner and hadnt managed Mr A and Mrs Ms expectations 
better. So, they paid £200 compensation to reflect the poor service Mr A and Mrs M had 
received. Unhappy, Mr A and Mrs M complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
UKI had fairly relied on the policy terms and the compensation theyd offered was fair. Mr A 
and Mrs M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they 
dont feel £200 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. They said they understood the 
investigators reasons for not upholding the claim but said theyd wasted a lot of time making 
a claim which wasnt going to succeed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy terms and conditions exclude travel against FCDO advice. Mr A and 
Mrs M travelled to P the day after the FCDO advised against travel abroad. So, I 
think UKI has fairly relied on the exclusion in the policy to decline the claim as there 
is no cover under the policy in such circumstances.
Its not in dispute that Mr A and Mrs M could have been told earlier that their claim 
wouldnt succeed because theyd travelled against FCDO advice. UKI has 
acknowledged that and I agree that Mr A and Mrs Ms expectations could have been 
managed better. 
Ive thought about what Mr A and Mrs M have said about the inconvenience caused 
to them. I appreciate that theyve spent time and effort making their claim. And I 
appreciate it was frustrating to find out that theyd done so when there was a clear 
exclusion that applied to their claim. But I think the compensation of £200 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A and Mrs M by not being told 
earlier that their claim wouldnt be covered. I think £200 fairly reflects the time they 
spent gathering information and submitting their claim. So, Im not directing UKI to do 
anything more to put things right. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint as I think U K Insurance Limiteds suggested settlement is 
fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman