DRN-3440057
The complaint
Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has cancelled their commercial 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F and Mrs J own the freehold of a block of flats. They held a commercial property 
insurance policy for the block which was taken out via a broker. At renewal the broker sent 
them a renewal invite and quotation documents for a new policy with UKI, who was a 
different insurer to the previous year.
The policy was renewed with UKI. Shortly after, Mrs F and Mrs J, via their representative, 
contacted the broker to query an assumption about the property and whether it was let, or 
sublet, which was in the policy documents.
The broker queried with UKI the freehold/leasehold arrangement Mrs F and Mrs J had in 
place, but UKI said this was outside their risk appetite and asked the broker to cancel the 
policy.
Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy UKI cancelled the policy. They believe that it should be 
reinstated by UKI. They also raised a number of concerns about their broker, which dont 
form part of this complaint against UKI.
As Mrs F and Mrs J remained unhappy, they approached this service with complaints about 
both UKI and the broker. This complaint relates solely to the actions of the insurer, UKI.
Our investigator looked at both complaints separately. In this complaint about UKI, he said 
theyd acted fairly by cancelling the policy. He said that due to one of the leaseholders being 
a housing association, this was outside UKIs underwriting and risk criteria. As he was 
satisfied this had been fairly considered by UKI, and as it was outside their risk appetite, he 
said they hadnt acted unfairly by cancelling the policy.
The investigator also said that UKI had confirmed they hadnt treated the policy as if Mrs F 
and Mrs J intentionally withheld information or recorded this externally.
Mrs F and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators view of this complaint about UKI and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that Im only considering the complaint about UKI, Mrs F and Mrs Js 
insurer, here. And my findings will be in relation to UKIs actions only. Im considering Mrs F 
and Mrs Js complaint about the broker separately and will issue my decision on that case 
separately.
The complaint points I can consider here against UKI are:
Was the policy cancellation fair and should it be reinstated?
Mrs F and Mrs Js concerns that they may have to disclose the cancellation to other 
insurers
Was the policy cancellation fair and should it be reinstated?
Mrs F and Mrs J purchased the freehold of a block of flats and took out an insurance policy 
to cover it. The freehold was previously owned by a housing association. As part of the sale 
of the freehold to Mrs F and Mrs J, it was a condition that the housing association would 
retain a leasehold for one of the four flats in the block.
Mrs F and Mrs J were insured with a different insurer, via the same broker, between 2019 
and 2020. Prior to renewal in 2020, they were sent a renewal quotation and documents for a 
policy with UKI. The policy was subsequently renewed. After this, when further reviewing the 
renewal documents, Mrs F and Mrs Js representative noticed the following assumptions in 
the policy documents from UKI (which were also in the renewal quotation prior to the policy 
being accepted and renewed):
Your property(ies):
Are not and will not be sub-let;
Are not and will not be let to housing associations;
Are not and will not be let to Local Authorities;
Mrs F and Mrs Js representative queried this assumption with the broker and provided 
further details of their freehold/leasehold arrangements with the housing association, and the 
broker contacted UKI to see if the risk was acceptable.
UKI confirmed to the broker that the risk wasnt acceptable due to the freeholder/leaseholder 
arrangements in place and was outside their underwriting guidelines. UKI asked for the 
policy to be cancelled. Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy the policy has been cancelled and want 
it reinstated.
Its up to an individual insurer which risks it is willing to cover and it is not for this service to 
direct insurers more generally on that. Whilst Im unable to share it with Mrs F and Mrs J as it 
is commercially sensitive, Ive seen a copy of the relevant underwriting guide from UKI, and 
the communication UKI had with the broker to enquire whether the risk and arrangements 
here were acceptable to UKI. Due to the leasehold of one flat being retained by the housing 
association, and them having control over the tenant who is residing there (rather than Mrs F 
and Mrs J) this isnt something UKI is willing to cover. Im satisfied UKI has shown this 
wouldnt have been an acceptable risk to them and doesnt meet their underwriting criteria.I note Mrs F and Mrs Js representative has questioned other properties in the local area, 
which belong to the housing association, which are insured. But Im not able to comment on 
other policies or commercial arrangements which may be in place. Instead, I can only 
consider whether UKI has sufficiently demonstrated it was unable to provide insurance here, 
relating to Mrs F and Mrs J freehold/leasehold arrangements. And Im satisfied it has done 
so.
The assumption was in the policy documents before and after renewal, which then led to 
Mrs F and Mrs J questioning if their situation was acceptable and providing further details 
regarding the specific arrangement and circumstances. And UKI has demonstrated the 
policy and freehold/leasehold arrangement is outside their underwriting criteria. So, Im 
unable to conclude UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably by cancelling the policy.
I note Mrs F and Mrs J want UKI to reinstate the policy. However, for the reasons outlined 
above, Im satisfied the policy was outside UKIs risk criteria and was fairly cancelled by 
them. Consequently, I cant fairly ask them to reinstate cover they would never have offered 
had they been aware of the freehold/leasehold arrangements from the outset.
Mrs F and Mrs J concerns that they may have to disclose the cancellation to other insurers
Mrs F and Mrs J are concerned they will now need to disclose the cancellation to other 
insurers.
As I say, I think UKI acted fairly by cancelling the policy. UKI have confirmed that they 
havent treated the cancellation as if Mrs F and Mrs J intentionally withheld information. 
Theyve cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums, and they have advised that they 
havent recorded this on any external databases.
But I cant hold UKI responsible for questions other insurers may need to ask or know the 
answer to in the future. UKI have fairly cancelled the policy, so Im not going to ask them to 
do more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman