DRN-3562058
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with HSBC in May 2017. In Mr Ms application he said he was 
employed with an income of £30,000. HSBC completed a credit search and found Mr M had 
two defaults totalling £1,100 that were two years old. HSBC also found Mr had missed a 
payment in the previous six months. HSBC also found nine active accounts on Mr Ms credit 
file along with evidence of four credit searches in the preceding six months. 
HSBC approved the credit card with a limit of £5,500. 
The account fell into arrears around the start of 2021 and was closed in May 2021. A default 
was recorded on Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M went on to complain that HSBC had lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and he referred it to this service. An 
investigator looked at what happened and upheld Mr Ms complaint. HSBC asked to appeal, 
so Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say HSBC had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, HSBC says it took information about Mr Ms income from his application, 
completed a credit search and applied its lending criteria. Our investigator asked HSBC for 
evidence to support the checks it completed but its explained its lending criteria is 
confidential. Ive based my findings on the available information.  
In response to the investigator, HSBC has given us some general analysis concerning 
indicators of financial difficulty. HSBC has also told us that at the time of Mr Ms application it 
didnt obtain information about payday loans and used predictive modelling from a credit 
reference agency. 
Ive considered the available information and whether HSBC shouldve completed more 
comprehensive checks before deciding whether to proceed. HSBC has sent information it 
found from Mr Ms credit file and it shows he had two defaults totalling £1,100 that were two 
years old when he applied. HSBC also found a missed payment and evidence of four credit 
searches carried out in the preceding six months. HSBC has told us it didnt obtain 
information about payday lending at the time. But I think the information on Mr Ms credit file 
shouldve caused it to complete better checks before deciding whether to approve the 
application. I note HSBCs comment that the default balance was low value, but I dont 
agree. In my view, the level of default balance, missed payment and number of credit 
searches shouldve highlighted Mr M may not have been able to support further borrowing. 
Theres no set information HSBC needed to request. It couldve asked for evidence of Mr 
Ms income and outgoings, bank statements or a full credit file for example. Mr M has 
provided a full copy of his credit file which serves to provide a detailed picture of what he 
owed and his borrowing history. I note the credit file shows Mr M had taken out four new 
credit cards and over six payday loans in the year before he applied to HSBC. In my view, 
better checks wouldve found Mr M couldnt afford to sustainably repay further borrowing and 
most likely have led HSBC to decline the credit card application. As a result, Im upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. 
It wouldnt be fair for HSBC to report adverse information on Mr Ms credit file when it lent 
irresponsibly. So I also intend to tell HSBC to remove all adverse information recorded about 
this credit card from Mr Ms credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied from inception to date of default. If the 
refund leads to a credit balance, HSBC should pay any excess to Mr M along with 
8% interest from the date the overpayment came about, to the date of settlement 
- Remove adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in respect of the credit 
card
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman