DRN-4450537
The complaint
Miss S complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
(Asset Link) irresponsibly provided her with a private student loan.
What happened
Miss S was approved for the below loan by another lender. During the course of the loan 
Asset Link took over responsibility for that other lenders loan book and loan. For simplicity I 
will refer to Asset Link throughout, even when referring to decisions made initially by the 
other lender.
Date Amount In-study 
monthly 
repaymentMonthly 
repaymentAPR Amount 
payable
16/08/2016 £9,500 £75 £184.80 14.9% £14,834.49
Miss S complains Asset Link did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving the loan. She says she was struggling financially at the time of the application and 
further checks would have shown this. Miss S says that she had failed all her courses for 
which she had previously had student loans and that she went on to fail this course, too. 
Miss S says Asset Link acted irresponsibly by approving the loan. She asked that her 
guarantor be removed from their responsibility for the loan.
Asset Link agreed in part with Miss Ss complaint. It agreed to refund some interest charged 
during periods when Miss Ss repayments hadnt been affordable. It also agreed to remove 
her guarantor from the loan. However, it maintained that it had completed proportionate 
checks and correctly used predicted future income to assess whether the repayments would 
be affordable when it provided the loan and at most later points when higher repayments 
became due. It highlighted that the purpose of the loan was to help Miss S with her fees and 
living expenses whilst she was completing her studies. It maintained that it had otherwise 
lent responsibly.
Our investigator concluded that Asset Link hadnt acted fairly. They said that Asset Link 
didnt properly investigate Miss Ss total debts at the time of her application. Miss S owed 
over £46,000 to creditors. Our investigator accepted that Miss S was reliant on payday loans 
and was in arrears with most of her debts at the time. Our investigator thought if Asset Link 
had completed necessary and proportionate checks it would have realised the credit wasnt 
affordable for Miss S during the in-study period and that there was no evidence to suggest 
shed be in a better financial position once shed completed the course.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint in full. While they considered that Asset Link 
shouldnt have lent to Miss S at all, they also reviewed what happened when Miss S had to 
commence her post-study payments and concluded that it wasnt affordable then, either.
Asset Link disagreed. It explained its business model further and said that Miss S hadnt 
contacted it to tell it about any financial difficulties. It reiterated that it had provided a refund 
of interest for times when Miss S hadnt been able to affordably make her repayments and 
had applied forbearance in adjusting repayments and applying payment holidays.
 
As Asset Link didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice I think there are 
three key questions for me to think about while looking at Miss Ss complaint.
These are:
1. Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Asset Link complete a review of Miss Ss circumstances once the in-study period had 
ended?
a. If so, did this show Miss S had secured a job in line with the salary expectations 
and repayments were likely affordable/sustainable?
b. If not, would those checks have shown Miss S had secured a job in line with the 
forecast salary and could meet the repayments in an affordable/sustainable way?
3. Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss S would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Asset Link is not a payday or short-term lender. It offers student loans to individuals who are 
funding their own further or higher education. It says its approach to lending meets the 
relevant regulatory guidelines.  The main difference between Asset Links lending and that 
typically provided by other lenders is that it completes its creditworthiness assessment 
based on the projected future earnings or income of the applicant. 
Asset Link explains that its assessment model is based on the result of calculations which 
take into account the information provided by the consumer and independent data published 
by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), which provides average incomes 
achieved for graduates of a combination of universities and courses across the UK.
 
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss S. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent to Miss S required it 
to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Ss 
ability to sustainably repay the loan over its intended terms without causing her financial 
difficulties.
 
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needed to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the 
credit, as well as the consumers circumstances. 
It isn't sufficient for Asset Link to just complete proportionate checks though - it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes not lending to someone who's already struggling to repay what they owe; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably - in other words, without having to borrow 
further or experiencing undue difficulty.
The purpose of Miss Ss loan was to pay her tuition fees and to provide a contribution 
towards her living costs while she was studying. 
Asset Link was entitled to rely on expected future income for Miss S when making its 
assessment, provided that this assessment was appropriate and there was an appropriate 
exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial payments. It assessed that Miss S would 
earn around £17,000 a year in her chosen field on completion of her studies.
Asset Link has provided a copy of the information it obtained when it agreed to lend to Miss 
S. I can see from this that Miss S had a poor history of managing credit. She also had 
existing debts of over £46,000. Our investigator thought that this should have prompted 
Asset Link to make more enquiries. And our investigator thought that if Asset Link had done 
further checks it would have realised the lending wasnt affordable for Miss S.
Asset Link disagreed. It submitted that Miss Ss large amount of debt was, in fact, other 
student loans which would not be repayable until Miss S earned over a certain amount. That 
amount would have been significantly higher than Asset Links assessment of her future 
earnings and so by the time she needed to make payments towards her regular student 
loans shed have been in a much better financial position. 
 
Miss S explained that she had a number of payday loans at the time. She provided details of 
these. I asked to see Miss Ss student loans statement so I could see how much of her debt 
was accounted for by these. By the time Miss S applied for her loan with Asset Link, she 
owed £41,757 in student loans. This meant that she had around £4,700 on other debt, 
including the payday loans. 
In her application Miss S was noted to be starting her second year as an undergraduate. 
However, Miss S explained that due to mental health issues she had commenced and 
dropped out of several other courses, never receiving the qualifications. This meant that 
Miss S had received the maximum amount of student loans funding at the end of her first 
year undergraduate studies. Indeed, Miss S didnt complete her undergraduate degree for 
the course she took the loan for, either. This was the reason she was seeking to privately 
finance her studies.
I think as Asset Link understood Miss Ss large debt to be student loan related, it ought to 
have done more checks with Miss S about why she needed the money. Had it done so, it 
would have understood that Miss S couldnt access more funding because of her repeated 
drop-outs and that she was also not coping with her current course. I think this would have 
fundamentally affected any risk assessment Asset Link conducted in relation to the lending 
and in relation to Miss Ss future earnings.
Im satisfied that even if Asset Link ignored Miss Ss existing student loans (because she 
wouldnt have become liable to commence repayments until she was earning at a certain 
level and because Asset Links future assessments of affordability would take this into 
account) that it ought to have investigated the other debts Miss S had, too. While students 
will often not be able to live entirely within their means, using agreed overdrafts to 
supplement their living costs, it is unusual for a full-time student to use other forms of credit 
such as payday loans. In this case, Miss Ss existing debt was significant, and she was in 
arrears with it, too.
 Our investigator reviewed Miss Ss essential expenditure at the time of the loan. They 
established that once Miss Ss rent, bills and loan repayments were taken into account, Miss 
S would have not had sufficient money to meet her in-study loan repayment of £75 a month 
and to pay for food. 
I think all of this information indicates that if Asset Link had completed necessary and 
proportionate checks, it would have understood that the loan was unaffordable for Miss S.
Did Asset Link complete a review of Miss Ss circumstances once the in-study period had 
ended?
While I have indicated that I do not think Asset Link completed necessary and proportionate 
checks, I have also looked at Miss Ss circumstances when she became due to commence 
her out of study repayments in October 2019.
Miss S earned around £1,150 a month. Her rent, other debt repayments and bills were 
around £925 a month, leaving her £225 to cover her food, out-of-study loan repayments of 
around £185 and any other expenses. 
Based on this, I am satisfied that the out-of-study loan repayments were unaffordable for 
Miss S. 
I understand that Asset Link provided Miss S with several periods of repayment holidays in 
2020 and beyond, however I am not satisfied that either the in-study or out-of-study 
repayments were ever affordable for her.
 
3. Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
I have not seen any evidence to suggest Asset Link acted unfairly towards Miss S in any 
other way.
Putting things right
Where a business has made an error, this service would usually aim to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. However, in cases 
where a business has lent irresponsibly this isn't entirely possible, as the lending provided 
cannot be undone.
In this case, I think it's fair that Miss S should only have to repay the money she borrowed 
and had the use of. So, I think Asset Link should refund all of the interest and charges Miss 
S has paid on the loan.
Whilst I think it fair that Miss Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, I 
don't think it's fair that she should be disadvantaged by Asset Link's decision to lend to her 
irresponsibly. Therefore, under the circumstances, Asset Link should also remove any 
negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a result of this loan once the capital 
sum has been repaid.
In settlement, Asset Link should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, then any overpayment 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Asset Link should arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss S. 
Asset Link should also remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit 
file regarding this loan once the capital sum has been repaid.
*If Asset Link considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Miss S has also asked that her guarantor be removed from her loan. Asset Link has already 
agreed to this, and I think that is fair.
My final decision
I have decided that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
lent to Miss S unfairly. I direct the business to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman