DRN-3735104
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim made on a group income protection policy 
she has the benefit of.
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs M became absent from work and was signed off sick by her GP. She 
had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through her employer, which 
can pay out a percentage of her salary after shed been off work for 26 weeks (the deferred 
period). She remained off work, so before the end of the deferred period, she claimed on the 
policy.
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mrs M hadnt met the policy definition of 
incapacity. They said the medical evidence didnt suggest shed be unable to perform the 
role she was doing before she started sick leave.
Unhappy, Mrs M appealed to Unum, and it maintained its position. She then complained but 
Unum upheld its decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She 
thought Unum had fairly declined the claim based on the available medical evidence and 
policy terms. Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy and terms and conditions 
The policy terms and conditions say that to claim Mrs M needs to meet the policy definition 
of incapacity. Relevant to this complaint, a member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied, they 
are: 
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
dues of the insured occupation and are 
Not performing any occupation. 
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity. 
Material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation, and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any 
other employer. 
Did Unum unfairly decline the claim?
Its for Mrs M to establish her claim under the policy.
The crux of the issue for me to decide is whether Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that 
Mrs M didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period and, as such, 
whether it fairly and reasonably declined her claim.  
Its important to add that Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence 
available to me when considering this issue. And for the reasons set out below, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mrs M didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity.
Its not disputed that Mrs M had a long standing back issue - caused by a 
degenerative condition  and shed experienced some pain and discomfort in her 
back, legs, and buttocks. However, the medical evidence doesnt illustrate how this 
specifically impacted her ability to carry out the insured occupation throughout the 
deferred period. 
Mrs Ms GP signed her off work throughout the deferred period. But being signed off 
by a GP doesnt automatically mean the policy definition of incapacity is met. Thats 
because the policy requires Mrs M to be unable to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of the role, she was undertaking immediately prior to being off sick, 
which cant reasonably be omitted or modified. Thats the term which needs to be 
met for a claim to be successful. Theres very little in her GP notes during the 
deferred period which reflects how her condition was impacting her  just that she 
was experiencing back pain. 
Ive taken into account the evidence from Mrs Ms consultant spinal surgeon  
particularly during the deferred period. But, again, theres little information about how 
her condition impacted her ability to do the insured occupation. I know Mrs M has 
said that her consultant explained that they werent an occupational therapist but 
theres not much information about the limitations caused by her condition  apart 
from the consultant recommending that she sit for no more than 30 minutes and to do 
a short walk whenever possible. She was also given some postural advice and 
advised to do gentle stretching exercises. After a spinal injection given in the Spring 
of 2021, it was also reflected that she had seen a 50% improvement in her leg 
symptoms. 
So, all in all, I dont think Unum has unreasonably concluded that the medical 
evidence doesnt support the presence of restrictions and limitations throughout the 
deferred period or an inability to perform her sedentary role. 
Mrs Ms employer had also discussed being able to make adjustments to her role; 
including being able to sit and stand to do her duties, removing certain housekeeping 
responsibilities which required more physical exertion. I know Mrs M had concerns 
that adjustments had been agreed previously when returning from previous bouts of 
leave after shed underwent surgical procedures in these past - and these being 
gradually eroded by her employer to the point where she was doing full duties again. 
But I dont think this means that Unum has acted unfairly by concluding that she 
didnt meet the definition of incapacity or that her duties couldnt be modified.  Mrs M has also referred to a letter prepared by another consultant spinal surgeon 
dated October 2021. Ive placed less weight on its contents as its from after the 
deferred period and the date on which Unum declined the claim. Ive placed more 
weight on the available medical evidence from the deferred period. But I accept that 
the letter does reflect: as far as her work is concerned, I advised her to take brief 
periods of rest by getting up from the same sitting position so that she doesnt sit in 
the same position for more than an hour and if she wants to change her job I would 
recommend that as well, so that what she can modify her activities and avoid surgery 
as much as possible for her pain". But I dont think this provides any further insight 
into whether she was unable to perform the insured occupation during the deferred 
period.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman