DRN-3838779
The complaint
Mr G complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr G had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr G had built up 21 years and 6 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017 was 
£12,448.22. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start to talk 
to the members in detail. 
Mr G was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr G to IFM. It recorded the following information 
about Mr G in September 2017:
He was aged 40, married and in good health. His wife was also aged 40 and in good 
health. They had three financially dependent children aged between 5 and 18;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£34,000. His wife was employed part-time by a local school as a kitchen assistant;
Their assets comprised the family home valued at about £160,000 to £170,000 which 
was encumbered with a repayment mortgage due to be repaid in 2024. They had 
cash savings of about £1,000 and an endowment policy (value not recorded). They 
didnt have any other savings or investments; 
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage (amount not recorded) on the family 
home. They didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£200 available every month which was directed into their cash savings;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. 
The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual 
salary. The value of his DC plan was then about £2,600. He was also on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67;
His wife didnt have any private pension arrangements;
He was an inexperienced investor with limited knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 4 or Moderate 
risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire somewhere around age 55 if 
his financial situation allowed it.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in September 2017. 
This explained to Mr G that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
IFMs adviser recommended that Mr G accept the transfer value of £305,278.75 offered by 
the BSPS and transfer to a PPP provided by Royal London for the following reasons:
I believe the critical yield required to match the benefits that could be provided by 
your existing defined benefits pension is achievable from the recommended 
alternative money purchase pension given your attitude to risk and the likely returns 
that the assets I have recommended you invest into could provide. 
My analysis demonstrates that the estimated benefits you could receive from a 
Personal Pension could be greater than those that could be provided by your existing 
defined benefits pension. 
You wish to remove your pension provisions from control of British Steel/PPF 
It is important to you that the residual value of your pension funds is passed on in full 
to your beneficiaries on your death and the scheme rules do not facilitate this.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:Initial advice charge 
1.47% (or £4,500)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.40% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value 
(the product charge was noted as nil)
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr G to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) showed that Mr Gs estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension at age 65 was £22,432.12 on the basis he took a full scheme pension only. It 
calculated the critical yield to match that benefit as 5.8%. The calculation assumed 0% 
ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 55  to align with the age at which Mr G 
wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr G accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
in November 2017. IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal 
Londons Governed Portfolio 4 fund to align with Mr Gs Moderate risk profile.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr G contacted this service to raise a complaint about the suitability of IFMs 
pension transfer advice. He thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
We contacted IFM to tell it about Mr Gs complaint and to give it a chance to investigate the 
matter. But IFM didnt issue a final response letter to Mr G either accepting or rejecting this 
complaint. So the matter was referred back to us.
In August 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended it be 
upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Gs best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr G transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that IFM pay Mr G £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr G accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a response to our 
investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
IFMs response to this complaint
After being informed by this service about Mr Gs complaint, IFM didnt issue a final 
response letter to him either accepting or rejecting this complaint. And it didnt provide a 
response to our investigators assessment. While IFM shared contemporaneous evidence 
with us about the advice it provided to Mr G, its unclear why it chose not to respond to this 
complaint. Regardless of its reasons, Ive decided that IFM has had sufficient time to 
respond and set out its position. And so I see no reason why I shouldnt proceed to issue my 
final decision on this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr G were set out in 
COBS 9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr G, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Gs situation
The situation for Mr G wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as set out in the suitability report:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available 
was £305,278.75)
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
Options 1 and 2 provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were differences between 
them for deferred members like Mr G. The PPF was designed to provide members with at 
least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was designed to provide members 
with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried members who expected to 
retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction 
in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members 
who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The 
BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to the scheme pension, a higher 
level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable. The benefits available under option 3 would be dependent on the performance of 
underlying investments and annuity rates available at retirement  in other words, there were 
no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 was likely to be the better option for Mr G based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Gs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr G was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Gs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 21 years and 6 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr G was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Gs 
limited capacity for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and 
maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary 
income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr G could retire early, from 
around age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. But he was then aged 40 (at the 
time of the advice) and so couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest 
under the PPP. In my view, with such a time frame until pension benefits could be 
accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of 
achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. And it seems IFM 
agreed because in its suitability report it stated, Given your age and that retirement 
is some distance away, its impossible to know at this stage exactly when you will 
want/be in the position to retire and what type of retirement income will be the most 
appropriate choice for you at that time. In other words, its far too early to know 
whether the income flexibility offered by a Personal Pension for example or the 
availability of more tax-free cash will satisfy your needs better than the British Steel 
pension.";
The basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr G to retire immediately but at some 
indeterminate point, many years in the future. IFM failed to obtain the necessary 
information relating to Mr Gs financial situation including his anticipated income and 
expenditure during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have 
been the case that Mr Gs retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 
but IFM failed to establish this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Gs best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his 
early retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65; 
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr G so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;In the fact find document it was noted that Mr G had no experience of investing. He 
was recorded as having a Moderate risk profile. Transferring to the PPP led to the 
investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with his safeguarded benefits 
being transferred from the scheme to Mr G. Those risks wouldve been retained by 
the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme;
Had IFM advised Mr G to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 40;
IFM recorded that Mr G wanted to transfer his safeguarded benefits to a PPP to 
provide greater flexibility when drawing benefits from his pension fund rather than 
have guaranteed lifetime income. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I 
cant see that he had any concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was 
appropriate for an inexperienced investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his 
main retirement provision in exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible 
benefits. Theres no real evidence that Mr G required the flexibility of irregular lump 
sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible 
needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. He joined that scheme in 
April 2017 and the total annual contribution was 16% of his gross annual salary. 
Given his age and the time frame involved, I think its likely hed have access to a 
significant DC fund to meet any flexible retirement needs by the time he retired. And 
hed also have access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2;
Mr G had surplus disposable income of about £200 available every month. Theres 
inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these additional monies in 
either a pension, investment or savings account to provide flexible income or lump 
sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
Mr G had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed 
retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr G was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and didnt want the scheme or PPF to have control over his pension. But 
he appears to have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres 
no evidence he had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of 
money. In my view, Mr G had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to 
understand the risks involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr G was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr G wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr G was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP and 
invest on a Moderate risk basis which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside 
risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make 
sense to me; 
It was recorded that it was important to Mr G that the residual value of his pension funds is passed on in full to his beneficiaries on his death as the scheme rules didnt 
allow this. The existing death benefits with the BSPS were not to be underestimated. 
Mr Gs wife wouldve received a guaranteed spouses pension which escalated each 
year for life which wouldve been valuable if Mr G predeceased her. While I 
understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr G about what was best for his own retirement provision. 
Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  
could be much smaller than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr G. 
Through his employment he had death in service life cover based on a multiple of 
four times salary. In addition, the value of his DC pension plan would be payable as 
a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his wife would receive a large (relative to their wider 
financial situation) lump sum death benefit from other sources in the event of his 
death;
I think the suitability report misled Mr G about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated that retiring at age 55 under the 
BSPS would lead to a 30% reduction in benefits and that, Early retirement is unlikely 
to be an option under the PPFwhilst the terms and conditions of the British Steel 2 
Pension Scheme are not fully known. The reference to the PPF is incorrect since 
members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards subject to a 
reduction. The same was also true for the BSPS2. IFM portrayed the reduction as a 
penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact 
that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to 
protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, 
its likely Mr G incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits 
early under the BSPS2;
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr G an annual 
pension of £12,448. But the TVAS showed the estimated revalued annual pension at 
age 65 was £22,432.12. So the reference to £12,448 was misleading. IFM attempted 
to show in the suitability report the early retirement pension payable under the BSPS 
at age 55. It stated, For illustrative purposes only, if you were 55 now and retiring 
under the current British Steel scheme, the annual pension would be c£8,700 per 
year or c£6,200 with a tax-free lump sum of £41,000. But that illustration was 
potentially misleading for an inexperienced investor like Mr G. This is because that 
figure of £12,448 was the revalued pension as at August 2017 when Mr G was aged 
40. It would need to be revalued to age 55 before the 30% reduction was applied. I 
think the way the information was presented may have misled Mr G to believe that 
the benefits payable by the BSPS (and therefore the BSPS2) at age 55 were lower 
than was actually the case;
IFMs adviser expressed his view in the suitability report that he believed the critical 
yield was achievable and that Mr G would be better off if he transferred. I disagree. 
IFM calculated the critical yield to match the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 as 
5.8%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.6% at age 65, as explained by our 
investigator in his assessment. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year. Taking this into account along with the composition of 
assets in the discount rate and Mr Gs Moderate risk profile, I think it was unlikely 
his PPP could meet or exceed this critical yield over the long term. So he would likely 
achieve overall lower benefits in the PPP;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figure of 5.8% was incorrect. This is because the basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to            
Mr G at a cost  but the cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical 
yield. Including that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being 
greater than 5.8%, which further increased the risk that Mr G would be worse off by 
transferring. In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr G was seeking 
to take benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at age 55 to enable Mr G to make an informed 
decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because the critical yield 
figure at age 55 wouldve been greater than 5.8% due to the shorter investment 
timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This 
meant that Mr G wasnt provided accurate information about the level of investment 
growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took benefits earlier 
than age 65; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Gs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, the critical yield figures and benefits payable by the scheme at age 
55. And it failed to provide sufficient information on alternative options to achieve        
Mr Gs stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report led to him 
making an uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when this was not 
in his best interests.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Gs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr G couldnt financially bear 
the risks involved in the pension transfer. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the 
pension transfer was clearly in his best interests compared to the alternative option of 
transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr G wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that Mr G had an 
aspiration to retire from age 55. However, he was still 15 years away from that age when 
IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can change over such a 
long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that 
supports the position Mr G wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved 
taking a regular income from age 55. And Im not convinced it could be reasonably 
determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr G. Therefore, I think, 
given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely 
the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 
would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr G accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge him for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr G £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr G the balance. 
If Mr G accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr G can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman