DRN-2321241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt process a 
switch instruction from their advisor which caused them a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs R would like their switch instruction to be backdated to when it was originally 
given.
What happened
Following an annual review meeting with their financial advisor, Mr and Mrs R completed a 
form requesting a fund switch within an investment bond that they held. 
On 1 June 2018, their advisor called Aviva to ask what they required to process the switch. 
The agent informed the advisor that they could take the instruction over the telephone and 
the switch instructions were provided on this call.
During the next annual review meeting in 2019, it was discovered that the switch instruction 
had not been completed the previous year.
The advisor contacted Aviva to complain and they investigated what had happened. Aviva 
originally said that it had provided incorrect information on the call dated 1 June 2018 and 
would backdate the switch.
Upon further investigation, Aviva said that the advisor hadnt been authorised to provide 
switch instructions and letters had been sent out to the advisor and Mr and Mrs R to tell 
them.
Aviva upheld the complaint based on what was said on the call and offered Mr and Mrs R 
£100 compensation for the service that they had received. Aviva said that they were unable 
to backdate the switch as they had written out on 7 June 2018 to say the switch couldnt be 
completed.
Unhappy with Avivas final response, Mr and Mrs R complained to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they 
thought that Aviva had given Mr and Mrs R and the advisor written notice that the instruction 
couldnt be completed.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs R have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint. I know that 
Mr and Mrs R feel strongly that their complaint should succeed, and I will explain why I have 
reached this decision.
The circumstances behind the complaint are understood and accepted by all parties so its 
not my intention to go over the detail but will focus on what happened after the switch 
instruction was given by their advisor.
It is accepted by Aviva that the agent provided incorrect information to Mr and Mrs Rs 
advisor on the 1 June 2018 call. The agent said that switch instructions could be accepted 
over the telephone.
In their submission to the service, Aviva say that letters were sent to Mr and Mrs R and the 
advisor on 7 June 2018 telling them that the switch instruction had not been processed. 
Aviva said:
Our records  show  that your agent  does  not hold authority  to fund switch  on your behalf,  
and therefore  we have  not proceeded  with the request.
Aviva  has changed  the process  when  accepting  fund switch  requests,  if your 
agent  is to provide  us with a replacement  fund we will require  authorisation  from 
you that you are happy  for them  to do so on your behalf,  either  by an email  or a 
telephone  call into our office.
Aviva said that as they didnt hear from Mr and Mrs R, no switch was completed.
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs R say that neither them or the advisor 
received the letter of 7 June 2018. I have looked at the letters that were sent and can see 
that the addresses match the ones that Mr and Mrs R have provided.
Mr and Mrs R say that the letters should have been sent recorded delivery to ensure that 
Aviva knew that they had been delivered. We cant tell a business how they should do things 
as we are not a regulator.
From what I have seen, the letters were addressed correctly, and I must conclude that on 
the balance of probability, Aviva sent the letters to the correct address. Mr and Mrs R say 
that they didnt receive them, but I cant hold Aviva responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs R 
say they didnt arrive.  
I know that Mr and Mrs R feel that Aviva should have ensured that the instruction was 
followed up, but I think that they have done so by sending the letter of 7 June 2018.
As the instruction was to carry out a fund switch, I dont think its unreasonable to say that Mr 
and Mr R or the advisor could have checked that the instruction was carried out and the 
switch completed.
Mr and Mrs R say that they shouldnt have had to check that it was completed as it was 
confirmed on the call to the advisor. Ive considered this but I think that it was acknowledge 
by the agent that the instruction had been given but the subsequent actions to sell and buy 
another fund would have taken place after the telephone call.
I think that Aviva attempted to resolve the initial error and recognised that they had provided 
a poor service and made the offer of compensation. Im not going to ask Aviva to do 
anything further.
Mr and Mrs R can contact Aviva to see if the initial offer of compensation still stands.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman