DRN-2558410
The complaint
Mr F complains that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly handled a claim a third party made against 
him on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2020, Zenith received an allegation that Mr Fs car had been in a collision with 
another vehicle back in December 2019. 
Mr F said neither he nor his car had been involved in the alleged incident. Zenith told the 
other party that Mr F denied any knowledge of the cause for the claim and asked it for further 
proof that he was in fact involved. 
Mr F went on to raise a complaint, citing that Zenith was leaving him in the dark over the 
matter and it was taking too long to resolve. Zenith didnt agree, responding to the complaint 
in July 2020, explaining that it had handled things fairly and in Mr Fs best interests.  
In August 2020, the third party representatives verified that the claim was a case of mistaken 
identity. Zenith confirmed to Mr F that the allegation against him had been withdrawn and it 
had removed details of the incident from a shared insurance database, so it would not affect 
him going forward.
Mr F remained unhappy. When Zenith maintained its position, Mr F brought the complaint to 
our service and one of our investigators looked into it. Having considered what happened, 
she wasnt persuaded that Zenith had been unreasonable in its handling of the claim. 
Mr F does not agree. Firstly, he submits that Zenith should not be the respondent business 
to the complaint  rather, he would like to hold an agent of Zenith accountable, given that it 
was this business which he was corresponding with. Overall, Mr F maintains that he should 
be awarded compensation to put right the unnecessary stress caused by the slowness of his 
insurer, and its failure to reveal all of the details of the incident. 
Because Mr F is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, according to the contract of insurance, Markerstudy Insurance Services Limited 
(Markerstudy) has delegated authority to handle claims on behalf of Zenith, as its Zenith 
thats the insurer of the policy. In simpler terms, Markerstudy act for Zenith for certain 
matters  including the handling of this claim.
 
So, as Zenith is ultimately liable for the way a claim is dealt with, our investigator was correct 
in saying that this complaint ought to be against Zenith as the respondent business. 
There's a centrally held database that records which insurers cover cars, that can help 
identify the relevant insurer according to the registration number of a vehicle (and not 
necessarily by the name of the policyholder). So, when theres been a driving incident and 
an interested party wants to claim from the insurer of the car involved, they can find the 
insurers details from the central database using the cars registration number. 
It seems likely that the party making this particular claim incorrectly noted the registration 
number of the car concerned; recording Mr Fs registration by mistake. Occasionally, such 
oversights can lead to a claim being made against a policyholder who is not involved or has 
no knowledge whatsoever of the incident being claimed for. Here, Zenith appear to have 
been contacted because its noted as the insurer of Mr Fs vehicle  which is why the 
allegations seem to have come about, as the mistaken identity looks to have been caused 
by the incorrect registration number being taken at the scene.
While such mistaken claims are inevitably frustrating for the innocent policyholder concerned 
(in this case Mr F), it doesn't necessarily mean the party making the claim has acted 
fraudulently  they couldve simply made an error. In any event, upon receiving the 
accusation that one of its policyholders was involved in an incident, Zenith was required by 
law to respond to the claim. It therefore was reasonable for Zenith to ask Mr F for his version 
of events, because, until hed given his account, Zenith couldn't know for certain whether 
hed been in the incident or not. 
From the offset of the claim, Zenith proactively progressed things without undue delay.  
Before it had heard back from Mr F, Zenith asked the third party for further information about 
the incident, as it deduced that this was unlikely to be Mr F himself, or his vehicle. This was 
on the basis of the location of the collision compared to his home address  the distance 
indicated that this was not in keeping with Mr Fs frequent areas of travel. 
Its also evident that Zenith notified Mr F of the claim as soon as it became aware. After 
liaising with Mr F, Zenith was satisfied that he nor his car had been involved and it concluded 
that the allegations against him were indeed a case of mistaken identity. Zenith explained to 
Mr F that it would raise this with the other party. It then promptly told the third party insurer 
that it would look to defend the claim, stating that evidence was required to prove Mr Fs 
involvement if the matter was to be pursued  which was the right thing to do. 
Zenith also proposed to Mr F that an independent engineer could assess his car to prove 
that the vehicle had not participated in a collision of this kind. Because of the sequence of 
events, this inspection wasnt needed in the end  but, nonetheless, Im persuaded that 
Zenith was duly prepared to help Mr F, including by looking to strengthen his case. 
I can appreciate that Mr F believes that Zenith ought to have better explained his rights and 
provided more detail about the incident. In particular, Mr F has submitted that his insurer 
ought to have suggested the independent inspection sooner. However, Im persuaded that 
Zenith acted in Mr Fs best interests throughout, in an effort to resolve the matter without 
undue formality. It put forward the option of an independent engineer because, at that time, it 
had not yet heard back from the third party insurer. Again, in my opinion this shows that 
Zenith took steps to move things forward, even when it had not yet received a response from 
the other side. 
A more thorough investigation would likely have required further time and effort from Mr F. 
For example, preparing evidence for a more formal pursuit such as legal proceedings would 
no doubt have proved somewhat of an inconvenience to him. So, preventing the need for 
further material or litigation saved Mr F from additional disruption. Ultimately, an insurer is permitted to handle a claim with minimal costs, providing that it 
handles the claim fairly. And, overall, Im persuaded that Zenith did respond to this claim 
reasonably. 
The third party had initially brought a claim for personal injury as a result of the incident that 
took place. Its common for insurers like Zenith to require agreement from the claimant that 
theyre no longer going to pursue the claim before the matter can be closed down. 
Otherwise, the claimant could simply continue to pursue it and take the matter to court, 
regardless of the fact the policyholder has consistently denied any involvement. Put simply, 
Zenith needed to wait for the third party insurer to confirm that the claim was mistaken 
before it could assure Mr F that the matter had been resolved. 
In my opinion, Zenith acted with reasonable haste, promptly contacting the third party 
insurer. And it urged this insurer to ratify the mistaken identity as soon as possible. Zenith 
explained to Mr F that it had to give the third party insurer time to respond and investigate 
with the third party. Which makes sense, as it would need to allow the opportunity for the 
details to be clarified on that side, such as the disparity between Mr Fs vehicle and the 
actual car involved in the incident.  
Im satisfied Zenith made numerous attempts to vindicate that the claim had been redirected 
to the true individual(s) involved and it stressed the urgency of a timely response. On 
multiple occasions, it sent letters to the third party insurer chasing a resolution and 
requested that record of the claim be removed from Mr Fs claims history. All things 
considered, its my judgment that the operative cause of the delay was the length of time it 
took this party to reply  not the acts or omissions of Zenith. 
Zenith could not control the swiftness of the other partys actions or responses. Indeed, even 
when handled well, disputes of this nature can often take months to resolve given that they 
rely on the cooperation of the other side. With this in mind, Im not persuaded that Zenith 
could reasonably be expected to have acted quicker to secure the other partys agreement 
to close this claim. 
Likewise, taking everything into account, I cannot safely conclude that Zenith should have 
taken more robust action to ensure that the other side shut down the claim against Mr F. On 
the contrary, the documentary evidence leads me to believe that Zenith acted with 
reasonable endeavours here. 
While a claim remains open, most insurers will treat it as if its a fault claim  which can 
affect no claims discount (NCD) entitlement, and premiums until such time as its closed. 
Fortunately, the matter was resolved within six months and there appears to have been no 
adverse effect on the price of Mr Fs insurance. Zenith rightfully confirmed that the claim has 
been removed from a shared insurance database, along with recording it appropriately on its 
own system and clarifying Mr Fs NCD entitlement. 
Because Zenith has updated Mr Fs record accordingly and theres been no financial loss  I 
do not require any remedial action, as it looks like Mr F has been put back in the correct 
position. 
I recognise why Mr F believes he should be compensated. I can understand how stressful he 
might have found being accused of being at fault for an incident he knew he had no 
involvement in. However, Im satisfied that Zenith acted fairly here and it was not to blame 
for Mr Fs policy being referenced in error. So, although I know this will come as a 
disappointment to him, in light of my conclusions above, I do not require Zenith to award    
Mr F compensation. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman