DRN-3732152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who declined 
to pay the full cost of part of their claim, under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
On 28 May 2022, Mr and Mrs M had a burglary at their home. Amongst other items that were 
taken, were three bikes, one of which was valued at £2,400 and is the subject of this 
complaint. 
On 30 May 2022, Mr M contacted Lloyds and specified the bike. On the 31 May 2022, Mr M 
made a claim online for the bike that were stolen. Lloyds sent a loss adjuster (LA) who 
offered Mr and Mrs M a settlement of the full cost of the bike (namely £2,400) which they 
accepted. But Lloyds whilst reviewing the claim, found that Mr and Mrs M had specified the 
bike after it had been stolen and so was no longer in their possession. Consequently, it 
withdrew the offer to pay the full cost of the bike of £2,400 and offered Mr and Mrs M the full 
policy limit of £500.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds as they said the LA had offered the full cost of the bike 
and they had accepted the offer. They also mentioned that a family member had mental 
health issues and their focus was on them rather than specifying the bike. They felt that 
Lloyds had discriminated against them. In its final response, Lloyds maintained its position 
that it wouldnt be able to offer the full amount for the bike. It acknowledged that it had made 
an error by its LA offering the full cost of the bike. And explained that this was because the 
LA was unaware of all the information regarding when the bike was specified. So, it offered 
Mr and Mrs M £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Mr and Mrs M were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Lloyds had acted fairly by applying the £500 policy limit for the bike. Given that the bike 
wasnt specified until after the date it was stolen. She said that Lloyds were also reasonable 
in acknowledging the errors and offering £50 compensation for those errors. 
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr and Mrs M did not. They said that our investigator was biased 
and in favour of Lloyds, rather than in the interests of the consumer. They said that Lloyds 
offered them the full cost of the bike on multiple occasions, even when it was fully aware 
when the bike had been specified. They also raised a further complaint against Lloyds 
regarding their garage doors. They said that Lloyds still hadnt considered this and as the 
doors remained insecure this was causing more stress and anxiety. So, they asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs Ms home was burgled and during the burglary the bike (which is the subject of 
this complaint was stolen).  Mr and Mrs M made a claim around 2 days after the theft had 
taken place. And had specified the bike around a day after its theft. The main issues of this 
complaint I think are whether Lloyds fairly applied the policy terms and conditions to Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim. And whether Im able to look at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint regarding the 
garage door.  I understand that Mr and Mrs M have raised a number of comments, which I 
have considered. As an informal dispute resolution service, its not necessary to comment on 
all of them, as we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the 
minimum of formality.
Mr and Mrs M said that within the policy terms and conditions, it only states that their 
obligation is to inform Lloyds of any changes as soon as possible. Ive had a look at the 
terms and I think it is made clear that it is Lloyds expectations of policyholders to tell them 
when any changes occur as soon as the policy holder is aware of those changes or before 
the changes happen: it is very important you tell us about a change before it happens or as 
soon as you know.
Mr and Mrs M said that they purchased the bike on 21 April 2022. So, had they complied 
with the policy terms and conditions, then they shouldve specified the bike from that date or 
even before they had taken delivery of the bike. As the bike wasnt specified from that date 
or earlier and having reviewed the policy schedule, the bike was only insured up to the policy 
limit of £500. The bike was stolen on 28 May 2022 and I think that over a month was a 
sufficient amount of time for Mr and Mrs M to have specified the bike with Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs M explained that the reason they didnt specify the bike before it was stolen, was 
because they had to focus on their family members health issues. Whilst I empathise with Mr 
and Mrs M position, I cant say that Lloyds were unfair or unreasonable by adhering to the 
policy terms. Further, in the brief timeline, the evidence is that the bike was stolen before Mr 
and Mrs M specified it with Lloyds. 
Lloyds position is that it was unable to insure an item that was no longer in the possession 
of Mr and Mrs M. In other words, the item - the bike  was no longer an insurable interest. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M had the bike in their possession, for a long enough period, to 
specify it, before it was taken. And as I agree that the bike was no longer an insurable 
interest, when it was stolen, I think it was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to get the bike 
specified within the timeframe. 
Ive next considered the settlement offers made by the LA appointed by Lloyds, for the full 
cost of £2,400 for the bike. Mr and Mrs M said that they had accepted the offer. But, having 
reviewed the claims notes, the evidence is that the LA was unaware that the bike hadnt 
been specified. In addition, Lloyds withdrew the offer once the error was discovered and on 
the same day that it had been made. Which I think is important when considering the impact 
this error had on Mr and Mrs M.  
Im pleased that Lloyds recognised its error and offered Mr and Mrs M compensation of £50 
for the trouble and upset this caused. As Ive mentioned, the original settlement offer was 
withdrawn within a short period of time by Lloyds, so I think the impact on them was minimal. 
And I think the compensation of £50 was reasonable, as the error was quickly rectified by 
Lloyds offering the policy maximum of £500 for the stolen bike, which I think was fair. Mr and Mrs M also raised a complaint regarding the garage doors, which they said Lloyds 
hadnt completed repairs or settled the claim. But I am unable to consider this complaint as 
Mr and Mrs M havent raised it directly with Lloyds. The rules are that new complaints must 
be raised directly with the insurers. The insurer is then given eight weeks to consider the 
complaint and must give a final response. If at that stage, Mr and Mrs M are dissatisfied or 
have been given their referral rights, then a complaint can be referred to our service for 
investigation. Lloyds have not been given the opportunity to do this, so Mr and Mrs M, ought 
to raise this with Lloyds first. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs M will be, 
Im not satisfied that Lloyds were unreasonable in offering the policy limit for the stolen bike, 
as the bike hadnt been specified before its theft. I also think that Lloyds were fair in 
recognising the error by its offer of £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
So, I cant ask Lloyds to reasonably do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation of £50 Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited has offered, for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman