DRN-3551894
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on her debit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for tickets to see a comedy show.
What happened
In February 2020 tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a comedy show in 
March 2020 using Ms Cs Lloyds debit card. The total cost charged to her card was just over 
£275. Not long after purchasing the tickets Ms C became concerned about Covid and the 
show was postponed and then postponed again. So she complained to the Website. The 
Website says that the show has been postponed and her tickets were delivered to her and 
were valid for the rescheduled show. It adds that such purchases are not cancellable or 
refundable.
So Ms C complained to Lloyds who looked into the matter and it put a temporary credit into 
her account. but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think it could pursue a 
chargeback further because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. So it 
didnt think it could do any more for Ms C. So it reversed the temporary credit.
Ms C didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Ms Cs 
request for a refund. Ms C didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs has described serious health issues and her bereavement. I also understand there 
has also been other substantial difficulties in her circumstances which means Ms C has 
been facing added difficulties for a significant period of time. Im very sorry to hear about all 
of these significant issues and have considered them throughout this decision.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the Website 
(which Ms C then bought).
I can see from Ms Cs representations to the Investigator after her assessment that Ms C is 
(understandably) focusing on the actions of the Website. I can also see that Ms C has made 
many arguments around the consequences of the Pandemic and pointed to the impact on 
her considering her health and specific situation. However whatever the issues there maybe 
with the Website and just because Ms C feels shes lost out it doesnt necessarily follow that 
Lloyds has treated Ms C unfairly. 
Lloydss role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Ms Cs debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Lloyds can only 
be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not Lloyds 
has treated Ms C fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an 
important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Ms C accepts she made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that she 
did this transaction with the Website in question. This service has seen a number of 
complaints about this Website and has built up through these cases (and its enquiries) a 
detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went through when purchasing tickets at 
different times. This understanding includes understanding changes to the selling process 
over several years and what purchasers would have seen at each stage of the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Ms C would have gone through at 
the time that she bought the tickets and what she would have seen on the Website at each 
stage. Im satisfied on balance that when Ms C went through the several stages/pages of the 
sales process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter her card 
details, the total cost to be charged to her was shown at that point which is importantly 
before she completed the transaction. Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly 
authorised by Ms C and correctly applied to her debit card account with Lloyds. 
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Ms C 
does here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. 
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism, 
and other reasons along with that of the outcome of the chargeback actually being 
successful through the chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt 
necessarily mean that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one. 
I dont think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Ms C didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Website would then receive that chargeback 
request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, 
then Lloyds should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it 
can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not Lloyds) who will 
then make an independent determination on the matter. So Lloyds isnt solely responsible for 
the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it 
can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect 
of success.
Lloyds has said it raised a chargeback when Ms C raised concerns about the Website 
postponing the show. It has shown the Website defended the Chargeback by responding 
that the tickets would be valid for the postponed show. It also noted that the transaction was 
non-refundable according to the terms and conditions and that the Website had declined to 
cancel or refund the transaction. So it didnt take the Chargeback further. And having 
considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited in the card 
scheme rules) Im not persuaded Ms C has lost out because Lloyds didnt take the 
chargeback further. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success considering the situation and the chargeback rules. The Card scheme also issued guidance with regard to the Pandemic. Ive considered this 
and I dont think this guidance changes anything here. I say this because although the show 
was postponed and postponed again the tickets remained valid throughout. And I think the 
guidance makes clear that as long as it happens in a reasonable time in the circumstances 
that doesnt give rise to a successful chargeback reason. So I think Lloydss position of such 
a chargeback not having a reasonable prospect of success is fair and reasonable. For 
completeness Ill deal with some of Ms Cs arguments here.
Pandemic and Health
Ms C argues vehemently that its not her fault that she cannot attend the show now due to 
her health and the Pandemic. And clearly shes right in this. But these things arent Lloyds 
fault either. And for it to be fair that Lloyds should refund the cost of the tickets Lloyds would 
have had to have done something wrong. And Im not persuaded it has.
She also argues shes in essence being punished for following Pandemic rules. I can 
understand why she might feel that. However this decision isnt about the website. Its about 
whether Lloyds treated her fairly in regard to chargeback. And Im satisfied it did.
Ultimately under the agreement Ms C entered into she had no right to a refund in the event 
she couldnt go for some reason. And this includes the Pandemic suffered.
Other chargebacks have been successful
Ms C points to the press and media and says other people have got their money back in 
similar circumstances. This may be so. However this decision is only about what Lloyds did 
here and Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in Ms Cs case.
Her personal situation
Ms C says not getting a refund is having a terrible impact on her and her personal situation. 
However as Ive described Lloyds hasnt treated her unfairly. So I dont see why it should 
refund her. It has done all it should in this matter.
Goodwill gesture
Ms C has said either the Website or Lloyds could have refunded the money as a goodwill 
gesture. That is true. But that would be their choice to do so and I dont think Lloyds has 
treated Ms C unfairly, so I dont think it needs to do anymore.
Summary
So although Ms C clearly feels the Website is at fault here this doesnt necessarily mean that 
Lloyds is liable. In summary this is a decision about what Lloyds is responsible for. The test 
here is did Lloyds consider the Chargeback situation here properly. I think that Ms C hasnt 
lost out here as I think Lloyds made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any 
further. So I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to refund Ms C for the tickets. So this 
complaint is unsuccessful.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Ms C wishes to read. I am very sorry to hear 
about Ms Cs circumstances and health. She has my sympathy on these matters. However 
Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt treated her unfairly or that it needs to remedy anything in relation 
to this transaction. So Ms Cs complaint isnt successful. And this decision brings to an end 
this services role in this dispute between Ms C and Lloyds.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman