DRN-3246076
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) in 
handling his claim and wants them to reimburse the costs he incurred in evicting his tenants.
What happened
Mr S was the landlord of a property he let under an assured shorthold tenancy agreement. 
He had legal expenses insurance cover with DAS as part of a landlord legal protection 
policy. Mr S made a claim on the policy towards the end of January 2021 for the costs of 
taking legal proceedings against his tenants to recover rent arrears and gain possession of 
the property.
DAS had considered Mr Ss claim by around 13 February 2021 and declined it on grounds 
his dispute with the tenants predated the policy, as the tenants had been in arrears before 
the policy began - which Mr S acknowledged. He raised some queries about the cover he 
had. DAS didnt respond until 6 March 2021 after hed chased them twice. DAS said they 
might be able to cover the costs of repossession action Mr S took if hed served a Section 21 
Notice on his tenants and they didnt leave once the notice had expired, as that would be a 
new event. Mr S said hed served notice (the Notice) in October 2020, which would expire on 
27 April 2021. DAS told him to come back to them once it had, if the tenants hadnt left, and 
they asked Mr S to provide a copy of the Notice.
Mr S told DAS on 11 April 2021 the Notice expired on 31 May 2021 and that the tenants had 
said they wouldnt leave. DAS told Mr S on 21 April 2021, when he rang and said the Notice 
expired shortly, that they couldnt help until the Notice had expired. But when it did, theyd 
appoint panel solicitors to help in the repossession of the property. Mr S asked DAS to let 
him know what information they required. They responded on 7 May 2021. 
Mr S contacted DAS on 28 May 2021 to say he was unhappy with the time it had taken DAS 
to reply to him and that hed paid another company to carry out work to evict his tenants. 
DAS reviewed things and wrote to Mr S on 11 June 2021. They apologised for delays, 
requesting again a copy of the Notice. 
In responding to Mr Ss complaint, DAS accepted thered been some delays in handling     
Mr Ss claim under the policy and that the quality of their communications hadnt been of the 
level theyd expect to provide. They apologised and offered Mr S £175 compensation. But 
they didnt accept responsibility for the costs Mr S had incurred.
Mr S was unhappy with DASs response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. He 
wanted DAS to reimburse his costs of taking possession action of around £3,000 and said 
hed suffered mental and financial pressure because of what happened. Our investigator 
thought DASs offer to pay compensation of £175 was fair to put things right. Since Mr S 
didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the pressure Mr S felt he was under. I can understand it was worrying for 
him if he wasnt receiving the rental income he was expecting and thought DAS werent 
dealing with his insurance claim quickly enough. But, having considered everything carefully, 
I dont think DAS have acted unreasonably.
Broadly, under the terms of Mr Ss policy, and subject to its terms and conditions, DAS 
agreed to pay, amongst other things, certain rent arrears and legal costs provided the 
insured incident happened during the period of insurance the policy covered. 
For rent arrears the date of occurrence giving rise to the insurance claim was defined as 
the first date that any of the rent due under the terms of the tenancy agreementis not paid 
unless this event and any other event leading to a claim have arisen from the same 
originating cause, in which case the date of occurrence will be the first of these events. 
Since Mr Ss claim was based on rent arrears and those arrears had started to build up 
before Mr S took out the policy with DAS, there was no cover under the policy. So, DAS was 
right, and it was fair, to decline Mr Ss claim on that basis.
DAS said they may be able to cover Mr Ss legal costs of pursuing repossession 
proceedings. Cover for repossession was available on condition Mr S gave his tenants the 
correct notices telling them he wanted possession of his property.
It was a condition of the policy that Mr S send DAS everything they asked for; provide full 
and truthful details of any claim as soon as possible; and provide any information DAS 
needed. As long as DASs requests for information were reasonable, Id expect Mr S to have 
given them the information they asked for to enable them to come to a decision about cover. 
DAS asked Mr S in March, April, May and June 2021 for a copy of the Notice hed served on 
the tenants. Im not aware he provided this to DAS. I think it was reasonable for DAS to see 
the Notice to check it was correct, in line with the policy terms, and its date given the 
information DAS had been given about that had differed from time to time.
Mr Ss policy excluded cover for any costs and expenses he incurred before DAS agreed to 
pay them. I think the policy wording set that condition out in terms that were clear, fair and 
not misleading as Id expect it to. So, Mr S ought reasonably to have known, before he 
incurred the costs, that DAS wouldnt cover them if they hadnt accepted his claim and 
approved them.
The documents Mr S has provided show he engaged a company to start possession action 
against his tenants on around 25 April 2021. That was just a few days after DAS had 
advised him to go back to them once the Notice had expired and hed asked DAS to confirm 
the information theyd need to progress his insurance claim. I acknowledge DAS didnt write 
to Mr S until around a fortnight later. And DAS have accepted there were delays in 
communicating with Mr S. But theyd told him previously they required a copy of the Notice 
and he hadnt given it to them. And he knew when he took repossession action DAS hadnt 
accepted his claim or approved the costs of doing so. 
The documents also show that hearings were scheduled for July and August 2021. DAS told 
Mr S again in mid-June 2021 that they still needed to see the Notice. And they warned him 
that cover under the policy wouldnt begin until a solicitor had been appointed and any costs 
he incurred before then wouldnt be covered. So, Mr S went ahead and incurred hearing 
costs knowing DAS hadnt agreed to pay them.
I can understand it was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr S that DAS didnt reply to him as 
quickly as he would have liked, and DAS have acknowledged their communication should have been better. But I think DAS made clear to Mr S several times before he incurred costs 
that they needed to see the Notice to consider his insurance claim. And Mr S went ahead 
with action knowing the claim hadnt been accepted and that DAS hadnt agreed to meet his 
costs. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask DAS to reimburse 
those costs. I think the compensation of £175 DAS paid Mr S fairly reflects the impact on    
Mr S of the delays they caused. So, I wont ask them to pay any more. 
Bearing everything in mind, and whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, I dont uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman