DRN-4233579
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has held him liable for an ATM cash 
withdrawal he says wasnt dispensed.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr W has explained that when he was abroad in November 2022 a 
third-party ATM failed to dispense cash he requested from his Barclays account; but the 
withdrawal  which wasnt dispensed  was nonetheless debited from his account. 
Ultimately, Mr W and Barclays couldnt reach agreement on the matter, so Mr W referred his 
complaint about Barclays to us. Our Investigator recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Barclays didnt accept this, so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator.
Barclays dont own the ATM in question. So, following Mr Ws claim that the ATM didnt 
dispense the cash withdrawal he authorised, Id expect Barclays to obtain relevant and 
appropriate information from the ATM operator to fairly and reasonably decide whether or 
not the cash was most likely dispensed, taking into account Mr Ws submissions and all the 
available evidence.
In this case, Im not persuaded this is what Barclays did. Instead, it seems Barclays raised 
the matter as a chargeback against the ATM operator. The ATM operator appears to have 
then reported to Barclays that the ATM withdrawal was successfully dispensed; with 
Barclays then basically accepting this and consequently declining to refund Mr W. 
Our Investigator suggested the type of information Barclays might have requested from the 
ATM operator to properly assess Mr Ws claim. And I agree that without this information 
having been presented, and without any suggestion Barclays requested it, Im satisfied 
Barclays hasnt declined Mr Ws claim fairly.
Barclays has provided technical information of two further attempted cash withdrawals 
seemingly by Mr W at the same ATM. These appear on Barclays systems as having been 
logged the day after the withdrawal Mr W disputes. The first of these further two cash 
withdrawals was declined; and the second one was successfully dispensed (which Mr W 
hasnt disputed). So, I understand Barclays may be suggesting these could be the two 
transactions Mr W has mentioned that he recalls: with perhaps, Barclays appears to be 
suggesting, the withdrawal Mr W recalls as not being dispensed, actually being the one that 
was declined (and not debited).
However, Mr W has no recollection of the declined transaction. Hes maintained from the 
start that the withdrawal that didnt dispense appeared on his account right away; whereas 
other withdrawals (that actually dispensed) would always, he says, go into pending and 
normally take a day or more to show. Ive not seen anything that leads me to doubt this. And 
the fact remains that Barclays didnt, in my view, reasonably investigate Mr Ws claim to be 
able to fairly and reasonably decide whether its most likely the ATM machine was working 
correctly and whether Mr Ws cash was most likely dispensed. So overall, Im more 
persuaded by what Mr W has said, rather than the fairness of Barclays holding Mr W liable 
for the withdrawal in circumstances where it hasnt provided sufficient evidence that the ATM 
successfully dispensed the funds. 
So, Im satisfied the fair outcome to this complaint is that Barclays didnt fairly decline Mr Ws 
claim, the complaint should be upheld, and Barclays should pay Mr W £276.10 plus interest 
on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of debit to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr W £276.10 plus interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of 
debit to the date of settlement (if Barclays deducts tax from this interest, it should provide 
Mr W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman