DRN-3882546
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank Plc treated it unfairly in relation to its 
merchant services agreement.
B is represented, but for ease Ill refer to the actions of Bs director and representatives 
collectively as Bs actions. 
What happened
In January 2020 Barclays contacted B to say there had been an alert from Visa about a 
security issue  the concern was that card details entered on Bs website were later being 
used for fraudulent transactions. Barclays explained there was a need for urgent action, 
including the need to engage a Payment Card Industry (PCI) Forensic Investigator (PFI). 
A PFI wasnt engaged, and B started using a different merchant services provider. Barclays 
then, around mid-2020, told B it needed to pay a penalty from Visa of about €67,000 and the 
agreement between them would be terminated. Barclays withheld the money B held with it 
(about £23,000) and asked B to arrange to pay it the rest.
B considers Barclays has treated it unfairly. It says, in summary, that:
B didnt take action initially because it was suspicious about the emails Barclays sent 
it;
Barclays hasnt shown B did anything wrong;
Barclays should have notified B there was a problem much sooner;
Barclays shouldnt have withheld its money; and
B is a small business, and this matter could affect its viability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B entered into a merchant services agreement with Barclays in 2018. Barclays has shown 
the agreement between the parties included the following provision:
If we or any affiliate are passed any fees (including registration fees if they apply), fines, 
costs, claims or liabilities by any regulatory body (including a scheme) arising out of our 
relationship with you or as a result of you breaking this agreement, we will request that
you, and you will have to, pay them and refund us the amount due when we request.
It has also shown guidance about the importance of Payment Card Industry Security 
Standard (PCI DSS) requirements. The following guidance was included:
What could happen if you are not PCI DSS complaint?
If customer cardholder data, which you or your third parties have handles is proven to have
been compromised, stolen, or used fraudulently your business is liable to substantial
associated costs e.g. (but not limited to) forensic investigations, Card Scheme compromise
fines, issuer losses, and reputational damage.
Additionally, the Card Schemes may decide to levy further fines for non-compliance and
storage of sensitive authentication data. Barclaycard may also impose non-compliance
charges on merchants that are not PCI DSS compliant.
Provisions and information such as the above are common in merchant services agreements 
and I find them clear, fair and not misleading. Im therefore satisfied Barclays did enough to 
make B aware of the risks involved in accepting payments from cardholders.
Barclays contacted B in January 2020. This was because of an alert from Visa, which it 
received the day before it contacted B. Until Barclays received this alert, it didnt know there 
was an issue. So Im not persuaded Barclays could have notified B sooner. 
B says it thought Barclays emails were suspicious. I dont find thats the case. The initial 
email specifically addressed how it could be perceived as such and set out verification 
advice. Nor did B respond to the emails in a way which would demonstrate suspicion. I note 
it wasnt long before B was communicating with Barclays, so its alleged suspicions were 
short lived. And I can see Barclays offered to arrange calls and did send a headed letter. It 
follows Im not persuaded Barclays communication methods had a material bearing on this 
matter.
Having reviewed the email correspondence between the parties I find Barclays was 
proactive, responsive and helpful. It made clear what was needed, followed things up and 
made B aware of the importance of acting. For example, in February 2020 Barclays 
explained the penalty from Visa would likely be about €63,000 and that this could possibly 
be reduced if a PFI was engaged.
B says Barclays hasnt shown it did anything wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Barclays has said it has. Barclays was made aware by Visa of a security concern  that card 
details used on Bs website had likely been compromised. This required an investigation, 
which is why B was told it needed to engage a PFI. By not doing this, Barclays didnt have 
legitimate reasons to challenge Visa. And while I accept B questions whether the security 
concern was justified, it was Visa which demanded action and Im satisfied Barclays did what 
it reasonably could to show B, through data, why Visa had concerns.
B is understandably worried about having to pay such a large penalty. However, Visa 
charged the penalty to Barclays because of a security concern on Bs website and because, 
it seems, there wasnt enough done to show either there wasnt a security issue, or the 
impact of the security issue had been mitigated. I cant fairly conclude Barclays is 
responsible for the penalty being as large as it is given it didnt calculate it, and it did what it 
reasonably could to encourage B to take steps to address the matter, and B didnt take 
them. 
As set out in the information Ive referenced above, Barclays can pass on costs such as 
Visas penalty to B. That, combined with the specific circumstances as set out above, means 
Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to ask B to pay it back. And I find it was 
fair and reasonable for Barclays to withhold the money B held with it in part payment. 
I sympathise with the situation B finds itself in. But its financial position isnt a relevant 
consideration. What I must decide is whether Barclays has treated it fair and reasonably. 
And for the reasons set out above, I find it has.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman