DRN-3883560
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint relates to a mortgage he has with Lloyds Bank PLC. He is unhappy with the 
decisions Lloyds made when he asked it for assistance from 2016 onward. 
What happened
Mr T and his ex-partner re-mortgaged their home to Lloyds in early 2016. They increased 
their borrowing by approximately £60,000 to clear some debts and pay for home 
improvements. The new mortgage was arranged on a repayment basis over 27 years.
In late 2016 Mr T arranged a meeting with the same mortgage adviser at Lloyds that had 
assisted them with their re-mortgage. Prior to the appointment they exchanged text 
messages about what Mr T wanted to speak to the mortgage adviser about. He explained 
that he wanted to see what his options were as his circumstances had changed since hed 
last spoken to the adviser in February 2016. He explained that he was no longer working in 
the same job and his relationship had broken down. He explained that his ex-partner wanted 
to sell the mortgaged property, but he didnt want to do so as the renovations hadnt been 
completed. As such, he wanted to take over the mortgage and borrow more money so that 
he could pay off his ex-partner and finish the renovations. 
Mr T wanted to know how much extra he could borrow and asked whether he would be able 
to change the mortgage to an interest-only basis for a while to reduce his outgoings. It was 
confirmed that Mr T was by that point self-employed and had been so for less than a year. 
The adviser explain that this was a problem in that he wouldnt have tax documentation to 
support his income if he wanted to make any changes to the mortgage. Mr T has also told us 
that Lloyds informed him that if he wanted to make any changes to the mortgage, he would 
need to have his ex-partners agreement.  
It appears that an agreement regarding the property was not reached by mutual consent 
between Mr T and his ex-partner, and so he applied to the courts for resolution. In 2018 Mr T 
obtained a court order that gave him sole possession of the property. His ex-partner was 
ordered to sign the relevant documentation to have her name removed from the title deeds. 
Mr T approached Lloyds again in 2019 to make changes to the mortgage and spoke to a 
mortgage adviser. He has told us that he was struggling to pay the mortgage at that time, but 
was told Lloyds couldnt help. Lloyds has said that in that situation, making Mr T solely 
responsible for the mortgage was not in his best interests and it was certainly not the right 
time to borrow more. 
In September 2019 Mr T spoke to Lloyds as he was unable to pay the mortgage that month. 
He explained to Lloyds that he was self-employed, had an offer for a full-time job, but was 
waiting for a start date. He was using most of the money he had to finish renovating the 
kitchen in the property and wanted to reduce his payments to the mortgage. A payment 
arrangement was agreed where Mr T didnt need to make payments to the mortgage until 
December 2019. Mr T was told that if he could afford to make any payment, he could do so, 
but he didnt have to. Mr T was asked to call back to discuss the situation at the end of the 
nil-payment agreement. He was also advised that this would lead to arrears on the mortgage 
and that would be recorded on his credit file.
In November 2019 Mr T attended a Lloyds branch and told a member of staff about his 
mental health problems and that hed been unable to work for two weeks, but wasnt 
receiving any benefits. The member of staff referred Mr T to a specialist team as he was 
considered a vulnerable customer. He was told that once he knew more about his income 
going forward, to go back to Lloyds and it would do an income and expenditure to see what it 
could do for him.
Mr T complained to Lloyds that it wouldnt offer him a further advance or a term extension. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint on 5 December 2019. It said it couldnt offer a further 
advance or term extension as the mortgage was in arrears. However, once the arrears were 
cleared, it would look at the options available. In addition, it highlighted that the mortgage 
was a joint account, and so it would need to have consent from the other borrower for either 
of these things to happen. Lloyds confirmed that its collections department would contact 
Mr T to discuss the way forward.
By January 2020 Mr T was employed again and was due to receive his first monthly salary 
at the end of February 2020. An income and expenditure exercise was done, which 
established his income was over £1,000 lower than his outgoings. A hold was put on the 
account and Mr T said he would call back a few days later with accurate figures. He didnt 
call again until toward the end of February, when he confirmed that his health had improved, 
and he was due to be paid later that week. Once he was, he would update Lloyds. He again 
confirmed that he was doing up the mortgaged property and would then rent it out. The 
income from the property would be used to clear his debts and finish the renovations.
When Mr T called back later in the week, a new income and expenditure exercise was done. 
This established that he could again afford the mortgage and he had a surplus income of 
around £520 each month. It was decided that the situation would be reviewed again as Mr T 
had other commitments that he needed to look at. A direct debit mandate to pay the 
mortgage was set up the following week and the payment for March was taken.
In June 2020 Mr T discussed the mortgage with Lloyds again. He informed it that hed now 
received the paperwork that would allow the property to be transferred into his sole name. 
He said he was behind with his household bills. He initially wasnt sure how much he could 
commit to the mortgage, given his legal costs, but it was later established that he had almost 
£570 surplus income each month. It was agreed that he would use £500 of it for his legal 
fees and increase his monthly mortgage payment slightly to £1,030. This was agreed for July 
and August, and Mr T was to call back again once he had spoken to his other creditors.
Mr T called back in September 2020 and a discussion was had about capitalising the arrears 
on the mortgage. A further income and expenditure exercise was done, but as it showed a 
deficit when the higher consolidated monthly payment was used, it was decided that 
consolidation was not affordable. Changing the term was also discussed, but as it would 
involve more interest being paid, it was again decided it was not the best idea at the time. 
Mr T also suggested that the figures hed given in the income and expenditure exercise 
might not have been accurate and Lloyds sent him a copy so that he could check it. The 
payment arrangement was extended for two more months. 
Mr T called back at the beginning of October 2020 and the income and expenditure figures 
were revised, which showed that consolidation of the arrears was affordable. This was 
processed the same month. In April 2021 a mortgage review was completed. Lloyds has said that in light of fact that Mr T 
by then had the documentation evidencing that he was responsible for the property it was 
willing to allow changes to the mortgage without the second borrowers agreement. As it was 
clear that Mr Ts financial difficulties were resolving, the term was extended to 28 years and 
a new interest rate product was attached to the mortgage. 
Mr T subsequently raised a complaint about how Lloyds had treated him. Lloyds responded 
by explaining how it assessed what was appropriate for it to do when a consumer was in 
financial difficulties and some of the factors it took into account when doing so. It confirmed 
that when Mr T first approached it, he wasnt eligible for any concessions due to the fact that 
he had been managing his account. In relation to Mr T wanting a further advance, Lloyds 
said that he would need to make an application before it could comment on whether it would 
agree to increase the amount of borrowing. It also said that for an application to be made, he 
would need to re-mortgage the property in his sole name.
Mr T didnt accept Lloyds response. He commented further and reiterated that he thought 
that if Lloyds had given him what he wanted initially, it would have alleviated his financial 
problems. Lloyds remained satisfied that it had acted correctly and that it would have been 
irresponsible to have lent him more money in the circumstances. It also explained that it had 
a duty to report factual information to credit reference agencies.
Mr T remained unhappy with Lloyds responses and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He set out what had happened and the 
discussions that had been had with Lloyds since November 2016. He said that he 
considered that when he spoke to Lloyds in 2019, following his ex-partner having her rights 
to the property removed by the court, she should have also been removed from the 
mortgage. He believes that this would have allowed him to make changes to the mortgage 
that would have meant it was affordable. He remained of the view that Lloyds hadnt helped 
him when it knew that he couldnt afford the mortgage and the actions it eventually took in 
2020 should have been taken much earlier.
The investigator considered Mr Ts further submissions and the further evidence he 
provided. However, it didnt change her conclusions. She reiterated that the court order 
severing Mr Ts ex-partners rights to the property didnt mean that Lloyds had to remove her 
from the mortgage. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint 
should be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues looked into the detail of the complaint and determined 
that we couldnt consider the issues covered by the final response letter of December 2019. 
Those issues being that Lloyds had refused to extend the term or provide him with a further 
advance in 2019 due to the mortgage being in arrears. 
The complaint has now been referred to me to consider the merits of the parts of the 
complaint that fall within our jurisdiction.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2022, setting out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
We consider our jurisdiction at each stage of our process. Having done so, I agree with my 
ombudsman colleague that we cant consider the matters addressed in the December 2019 
final response letter. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has said that in 2016 he was in financial difficulties and he approached Lloyds for help. 
Due to the time that has elapsed and the fact that no application was made, the information 
about the interactions is limited. However, Mr T has provided a text conversation between 
him and the mortgage adviser that took place at the time. There is no mention in that 
conversation of Mr T being in financial difficulties, it simply says that he wanted to look into 
the options he had, given that hed split up with his partner and she wanted the property 
sold, but he didnt want to sell. The only mention of a difficulty relating to Mr Ts income was 
that he was unable to evidence what it was because he had only recently become self-
employed and so didnt have the HMRC documentation that would usually be required.
There was also a joint borrower who had rights in relation to the mortgage, and whom Mr T 
had told Lloyds wanted a different outcome from the situation. In those circumstances, it was 
entirely reasonable for Lloyds to tell Mr T that it would need the other borrowers consent to 
any changes being made to the existing mortgage.
Mr T has said that he should have been told in 2016 that he would need to apply to have his 
ex-partner removed from the mortgage. Before considering an application of any description 
a lender will need to be satisfied that any changes are affordable both at that time and going 
forward. Mr Ts circumstances had changed materially since the re-mortgage had gone 
through around eight months earlier, in that he would be maintaining the mortgage on his 
own and he had become self-employed. Most lenders will require at least three years of 
accounts for customers that are self-employed, which Mr T was unable to provide. In the 
circumstances it would have been pointless for Lloyds to have suggested that Mr T apply to 
remove his ex-partner from the mortgage, even if shed consented to the arrangement, 
because he wouldnt have been able to provide the income evidence that was needed to 
support the application. As such, I cant find that Lloyds did anything wrong in not suggesting 
Mr T try to start a process that it knew he wouldnt be able to complete. 
Mr T is unhappy that Lloyds didnt help him when he was in financial difficulties in general, 
but was still maintaining the mortgage payments. Mortgages are expected to be considered 
a priority debt, which means that a consumer is expected to focus on paying a mortgage 
over other unsecured debts. While a consumer might be finding their overall finances 
difficult, until they reach a point where they will be unable to maintain the payments to the 
mortgage, their lender wouldnt be expected to put in place concessions or forbearance, 
especially not in order to assist with other debts or financial plans. As such, I cant find that it 
was inappropriate for Lloyds to decline to take any action in April 2019 when Mr T 
approached it.
However, once a consumer is unable to make the payments to a mortgage, a lender is 
required to explore ways to resolve the situation, especially if the problem that created it to 
begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved. For long-term 
difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as transferring a mortgage 
from repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period of time or capitalisation of 
arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is 
affordable, sustainable and will actually benefit the consumer, not just delay the inevitable. 
It was not until September 2019 that Mr T reached the point where he wasnt able to pay his 
mortgage. At that time Lloyds assessed his financial situation and concluded that he simply 
couldnt afford the mortgage. It immediately put in place an agreement whereby he didnt 
need to pay the mortgage for a period. I wont comment on whether alternative options 
should have been considered, as those options were covered under the 2019 final response 
letter and fall outside our jurisdiction. The period that Mr T was unable to pay the mortgage was short lived and he commenced 
payments again in March 2020. From January 2020 when Mr T continued his discussions 
with Lloyds it did what I would expect it to do. It listened to Mr T, assessed what he was 
telling it and put in place arrangements that were affordable and would assist him. Once hed 
demonstrated that his financial difficulties were resolved and he was dealing with the 
consequences of them, Lloyds looked at what it could do to assist him further. Initially, it 
contacted him to discuss consolidating the arrears on the mortgage. While that didnt appear 
to be affordable initially, once it was, the consolidation was completed.
Mr T has complained that in 2021 Lloyds agreed to alter the mortgage without his former 
partners agreement, whereas it had told him previously it would not. Lloyds has said that it 
took the decision in 2021 to allow changes because Mr T had obtained both the court order 
and the documentation needed to remove the partner from the title deeds, so it knew that 
Mr T was solely responsible for the property. As I have said above, it wasnt unreasonable 
for Lloyds to want the joint borrower to agree to changes to the mortgage, as that person 
was jointly and severally liable for the mortgage debt. However, when that changed, and 
Mr T had all of the documentation needed, it was right for Lloyds to take that into account in 
its dealings with him. So I dont consider the change in stance means that Lloyds was wrong 
to take the approach it did before the legal process was completed.
That said, I note that Lloyds said in its latest final response letter that Mr T will need to 
re-mortgage the property to remove his ex-partner from the mortgage and be allowed to 
apply to increase his borrowing. I believe that Lloyds has made a mistake in its explanation 
in this letter. This is because it has previously explained, in order to remove one of the 
borrowers from a mortgage, a transfer of equity application needs to be completed, rather 
than a re-mortgage.  If Mr T decides to make such an application, I would expect Lloyds to 
take into account its acceptance that Mr Ts ex-partner has no rights to, or responsibility for, 
the property and the decisions it has made off the back of that. 
Mr T is unhappy that Lloyds recorded adverse information on his credit file, as he considers 
it is Lloyds fault the mortgage was in arrears. As I have said above, I dont consider that 
Lloyds acted inappropriately in not making concessions when Mr T was able to pay his 
mortgage. In addition, a lender who reports to credit reference agencies is required to 
provide accurate information when it does so. As such, I dont consider that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in recording the arrears and payment arrangements on Mr Ts credit file.
Lloyds accepted my conclusions.
Mr T initially confirmed that he had received my provisional decision, but had not read it. He 
explained that he felt he was struggling to deal with the matter and wanted his solicitors to 
deal with the complaint going forward, but was unable to afford the associated costs. As 
such, he said he would respond when he felt able to deal with the complaint or he could 
afford to have his solicitors do so. 
Our investigator explained that we couldnt leave the complaint in abeyance indefinitely. 
However, it was suggested that there were alternative options for Mr T to receive help to 
deal with his complaint, that wouldnt involve cost in the way his solicitors would. Mr T was 
given additional time to seek assistance if he wanted to.
Mr T responded by confirming that he believed that his solicitors were best placed to 
produce a response to the provisional decision. He said that had also been unhappy with the 
advice hed received from other organisations in the past, and so didnt want to use them 
again. Mr T said that he was working his way through the provisional decision and believed 
that Lloyds had been selective about the information that it had provided to us, omitting any 
that was damming to them. Subsequently, Mr T informed us that he had been in contact with his solicitors and he was 
unable to afford to pay it to assist him with the complaint. He said that he was unable to deal 
with the matter himself and wanted the complaint to stop. However, he then went on to 
reiterate his complaint, explanation of the events, what he thought Lloyds had done wrong, 
and the consequences Lloyds decisions had on his financial situation. As it wasnt clear 
what Mr T wanted to do, we asked him to confirm whether he wanted to pursue the 
complaint and if so, how. 
He said he didnt care what happened with the complaint and that he would now concentrate 
on moving forward through the discussions he was currently having with Lloyds about this. 
However, he again reiterated the details of his complaint, the circumstances, and the effect 
Lloyds actions had had on his situation. Mr T then said to us that he had come to us for a 
resolution to the problems and felt that he was not getting that, because we were not 
listening to him and there was missing evidence. He repeated details of his complaint again, 
focussing on his finances, and raised a new complaint point regarding how Lloyds had 
allowed the original re-mortgage in 2016 when he didnt have the right insurances in place. 
He repeated that he was in discussions with Lloyds about the way forward with the mortgage 
and set out what he was asking it to do. 
The complaint has been returned to me to consider for decision, in order to draw the matter 
to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party made any new submissions nor provided any new evidence regarding the 
merits of this complaint. As such, I dont see any reason to alter my conclusions. 
However, in relation to specific questions Mr T asked in his most recent response to the 
provisional decision, I would confirm the answers to those questions are contained in the 
What happened section of this decision.
In relation to Mr Ts concern about the re-mortgage being agreed without insurances being in 
place, as I have said above, this is a new complaint issue. If Mr T wishes to pursue it, he will 
firstly need to raise it with Lloyds. If he remains unhappy following it being given the 
opportunity to respond, we may be able to consider it. However, at the present time, I am 
unable to comment on the matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
10 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman