DRN-4027240
The complaint
Ms M, on behalf of F  a limited company complains that American Express Payment 
Services Limited (AEPSL) has not returned to it funds that were paid into a wrong merchant 
account.
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been ongoing for 
some time, in this decision Ill focus mainly on explaining the reason for reaching the 
outcome that I have. 
F had a merchant services contract with a third party, E. Payments made via that contract 
were processed by AEPSL. It appears that when Fs payment terminal was set up, an 
incorrect merchant identification number was entered. Between August 2019 and September 
2020 payments were being sent to the incorrect account - an account belonging to a 
different business, K.
In 2020 K realised that it had received some payments it was not entitled to and contacted 
AEPSL to return the funds. AEPSL and K determined that these payments were likely due to 
F and so AEPSL asked F to provide evidence of the payments that it had not received. After 
some back and forth, AEPSL ultimately returned around £14,000 of the disputed payments 
to F  relating to payments made between February and September 2020  and offered to 
pay 8% interest on this amount as compensation for any delays. But AEPSL says it cannot 
be held responsible for the recovery of any remaining outstanding funds.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but felt that AEPSL had treated F 
fairly. F disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
In August 2019 F entered into a merchant services contract with E, payments made as part 
of this contract were processed by AEPSL. At that time a new terminal was installed for F to 
take payments with. The installation was done by another party, X. 
Both parties are broadly in agreement that an incorrect merchant ID was recorded on the 
terminal  but disagree on who was responsible for this error. This resulted in payments from 
August 2019 to September 2020 being diverted to an account belonging to a third party, K. F 
thinks this was down to an error by AEPSL, AEPSL says that any error in inputting the 
merchant ID would be down to the installer - X. Ive been given no documentary evidence to 
show exactly what was discussed between X, F and AEPSL at the time the terminal was set 
up.
Based on what Ive seen and with my understanding of how terminals are set up, I havent 
seen sufficiently persuasive evidence to fairly conclude that any error in setting up the 
terminal was AEPSLs fault. And in any case, regardless of why the wrong merchant ID was 
recorded on the terminal, there was still an obligation on F to keep track of the payments it 
was receiving and flag any that were incorrect. It is part of AEPSLs terms and conditions 
that merchants must notify it within 90 days of any missing or incorrect payments. But I 
cannot see that F flagged any of these missing payments with AEPSL until AEPSL made 
contact with F itself in late 2020. Given that AEPSL wasnt told about these missing 
payments, it didnt have the opportunity to put any errors right or potentially mitigate Fs 
losses until it was notified by K that it had been receiving these payments in error. And by 
that stage AEPSL was reliant on K to return any disputed payments.
What Ive seen suggests that K first made contact with AEPSL in May 2020, and that K 
provided a detailed spreadsheet of the payments it had received in late 2020. This covered 
payments received between May 2020 and September 2020  when the terminal was 
reprogrammed with the correct merchant ID. AEPSL made contact with F to say that it 
appeared some payments due to F had been made to the wrong account, and to ask for 
evidence to show which payments F was entitled to. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AEPSL to ask for documentary evidence of the payments, such as receipts, it needed to 
ensure that any payments made to F were correctly due. 
F initially provided a spreadsheet of the missing payments in March 2021, and around this 
time K returned the funds it had identified to AEPSL where they were kept aside. AEPSL 
then received some receipts as evidence of the transactions from F in December 2021. 
AEPSL ultimately decided that it was more likely than not that the payments K had returned 
did belong to F, and it paid those funds (totalling £14,372.04) to F in March 2022. AEPSL 
also offered to pay 8% interest on top of this amount to compensate F for any delay in 
returning the payments to it.
There was a delay here in returning the identified incorrect payments to F, I consider though 
that this delay was at least partially because F had not provided all the receipts for the 
missing payments. So with this in mind Im satisfied that the 8%interst AESEL has offered to 
pay on top of the returned payments is fair, reasonable and proportionate compensation. I 
also must bear in mind that F is a limited company, it is not a person who can be distressed 
or upset by a delay in the payments being returned, so any compensation is purely to 
recognise any additional work or inconvenience caused to F in chasing the return of the 
funds.
I understand that there are further missing payments, for the period September 2019 to 
February 2020, which F says it is entitled to. But as explained above, given that these 
transactions were not raised with AEPSL until well after 90 days since they had been made, 
any effort to recover the payments would be on a best endeavours basis. AEPSL has though 
said it is willing to communicate with K, who likely also received these payments, to see if 
they can be found and returned. But AEPSL has asked for detailed receipts, in a format it 
can read, to enable it to do this, and I consider that to be a reasonable request on AEPSLs 
part. My understanding is that F has sent AEPSL a link, but AEPSL is unable to access that 
link. Its for F now to send the appropriate evidence in a readable format to AEPSL. 
Overall, I am satisfied that AEPSL has appropriately handled the issues F has had with 
these payments so far - when they were made aware of the issues. I acknowledge that there 
were some delays in returning the identified incorrect payments to F, but I consider that 
AEPSLs offer to pay 8% interest is appropriate to resolve that part of Fs complaint. Im also 
satisfied that AEPSL has suggested a reasonable way forward with the remaining payments 
that are outstanding. Putting things right
To resolve this complaint AEPSL should pay 8% interest on the £14,372.04  from the date 
this payment should have been returned to F to the date it was returned to F.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Payment Services Limited should put things right 
in the way Ive set out above, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman