DRN-3196274
The complaint
Mr O complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
Mr O had a Pockit account.
  
In October 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Os account while it carried out a review. As part of the 
review Pockit asked Mr O to provide proof of his identification, address and source of funds. 
Mr O explained that he didnt have any photographic identification documents but sent Pockit 
a copy of his poll tax as proof of his address and a deed poll certificate to prove his identity. 
In response, Pockit told Mr O that it couldnt provide him with a timeframe for how long its 
review would take to complete. 
Over the following months, Mr O sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account. At the time Mr Os balance was around £452 following a credit of £450 which 
was paid into Mr Os account on 19 October 2020. 
In November 2021, Pockit wrote to Mr O and told him it was closing his account and 
returning his account balance back to the original source. 
Mr O complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult to 
provide for his family. And hed been trying to find out what was happening with his account 
for more than a year. He said hed emailed Pockit more than 30 times and hed asked to 
speak to a manager more than once. But hed been ignored by Pockit and kept in the dark 
about what was happening with his account, which hed found upsetting and frustrating. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint and asked him for more information 
about the £450 payment made into his account.  Mr O told the investigator that hed sold a 
mobile phone online for £450. But he couldnt provide anything to support his explanation 
such as details of the person whod bought the phone from him or that hed owned a phone 
to sell. 
The investigator concluded that Pockit were entitled to block and review Mr Os account. And 
ask him for information.  And hadnt done anything wrong when it sent the £450 back to 
source. But she said the review had taken too long. She said that Pockit should return 
Mr Os remaining balance to him and pay him £75 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused due to unnecessary delays. 
Mr O agreed. Pockit didnt and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships and verify a customers identity. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out their review. And ask a customer for information about payments made into an 
account and to provide identification documents.
 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, Im satisfied that they were complying 
with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Os account and asked him 
for information about how he was using his account. The terms and conditions of Mr Os 
account also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with 
them. So, I cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Os account. 
Having looked at Mr Os account statement, the £450 payment was out of character. Mr O 
hadnt previously received any large payments. So, I can understand why Pockit had 
concerns. I note too that Mr O has changed his explanation regarding the payment  initially 
he said he sold a mobile phone on a well-known internet site. And more recently hes said he 
sold the phone via social mobile. And despite being asked by the investigator, hes not 
provided any evidence to support either explanation, such as evidence of the sale or that he 
owned a mobile phone which he sold. This makes it very difficult for me to place much 
weight on what hes said about his entitlement to the £450 that was paid into his account. 
Pockit sent the £450 back to source. This ensures the funds are sent back to the correct 
person. Especially, as in this case Pockit werent able to verify Mr Os entitlement to the 
funds. I agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. So, I cant say Pockit has 
treated Mr O unfairly in doing so. And I wont be asking Pockit to refund Mr O.
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Os account in October 
2020.  I can see that Pockit asked Mr O to provide it with information in November and 
December 2020. However, his account remained blocked until November 2021  more than 
a year after Pockit first blocked Mr Os account. At this point Pockit decided to close Mr Os 
account and send the whole balance of his account including the £450 back to source. 
I dont know why Pockit decided to send the whole balance back to source. Ive not seen 
anything to show it had concerns over the remaining balance. And that Mr O wasnt entitled 
to the other money in his account. So when I weigh everything up Im not satisfied that 
Pockits actions are reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Os account took so long to complete. I note from looking at the emails between 
Mr O and Pockit, that Pockit apologised for the delay and explained that it was experiencing 
a backlog with verifications. I accept that businesses at times have to deal with high volumes 
of work with limited resources. So, some delays are unavoidable. But I dont consider 13 
months to be reasonable. Ive also kept in mind that Mr O appears to have complied with Pockits requests for 
information relatively quickly. Based on the evidence Ive seen this doesnt appear to be an 
over complicated matter. But I can see that Mr O spent time sending a number of emails 
over many months trying to find out what was happening to his account. And he asked to 
speak to a manager on more than one occasion, but this wasnt actioned. Mr O also told 
Pockit he needed the money in his account to support his family. But Pockit didnt provide 
Mr O with any meaningful explanations about how long things might take to complete. So, I 
can understand why Mr O was upset. Im not satisfied Pockit completed its review in a timely 
manner and treated Mr O fairly. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay £75 compensation 
to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mr O.
In summary, Im aware that Pockit have returned the £450 paid into Mr Os account back  to 
source. I agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. But Ive not seen anything 
to suggest Mr O isnt entitled to the remaining funds in his account. I can also see that Mr O 
has had to chase Pockit to try and find out what was happening with his account  hes sent 
numerous emails to try and move things forward. Despite not being entitled to the £450 he 
was still entitled to be provided with a fair and reasonable service from Pockit. I think having 
to wait more than a year to be provided with an outcome about what was happening with his 
account has caused Mr O distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Os complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr O £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and lack of communication and
return Mr Os remaining balance to him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman