DRN-4323284
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allianz Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motor trade insurance 
policy. 
What happened
For the year from December 2021, Mr C had a policy with Allianz. The policy covered any 
vehicle being driven in connection with his business.
In early April 2022, an insured vehicle driven by Mr C made minor contact with the offside of 
a third partys sports utility vehicle.
The third party later made a claim to Allianz that Mr C had damaged the SUVs wing mirror 
and door. The third partys claim included the cost of repairs and the cost of a credit-hire car 
pending completion of repairs.
Allianz paid the claim including over £5,000.00 for the third partys hire costs.
In early December 2022, Mr C complained to Allianz that  without telling him  it had paid 
out too much.
By a final response dated December 2022, Allianz apologised for not contacting Mr C before 
settling the third partys claim. It said it would send him £150.00 on receipt of his bank 
account details. Allianz said its in-house engineer had approved the third partys repair 
costs. It said that the car hire period shouldve been about eleven days.
In late January 2023, Allianz agreed to remove about £3,800.00 of the credit hire cost from 
Mr Cs claims history.
In February 2023, Mr C brought his complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that the repair costs and the reduced hire costs were reasonable. The investigator 
thought that Allianzs offer was fair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C  
and to Allianz on 2 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider that Allianzs decision to settle was unreasonable or unfair to Mr C.
£150.00 was a fair offer to put right the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr C by 
the shortcomings in Allianzs communication. As Allianz hadnt paid it, I was minded 
to uphold this complaint and to direct Allianz to pay Mr C that amount.
Subject to any further information from Mr C or from Allianz, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Allianz Insurance plc to pay Mr C £150.00 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr C disagreed with the provisional decision. He said, in summary, that:
The third partys claim was false. Allianz should have identified it as a fraudulent 
claim. Allianz should not have settled the claim to the value which was agreed. 
The ombudsman should instruct Allianz to remove the claim against his insurance 
record, and to decrease his insurance premiums to what they were before the claim.
Allianz disagreed with the provisional decision. It said, in summary, that:
The correct award was made to the customer and the correct outcome was reached.
Mr C did not respond to accept the compensation and in turn provide bank details so 
it could raise payment.
It would be unfair to have a change in favour of Mr C and against Allianz. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim, and particularly a fault claim, is likely to have an adverse effect on the 
policyholders premium from the next renewal date for a few years. Different insurers assess 
and price risk differently at different times. Often insurers place more weight on the existence 
of a previous claim and less weight on its amount.
Most motor insurance policies have a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal 
with a claim from a third party. Allianzs policy terms included the following:
4 Claims (i)  Action By You
You shall in the event of any injury, loss destruction, damage or consequential loss
as a result of which a claim is or may be made under this Policy or any Section of it,
and again upon receipt by You in writing of any notice of any claim or legal
proceeding
j allow Us in the name of and on behalf of You to take over and, during such periods
as We think proper, to have the absolute conduct and control of all negotiations and
proceedings which may arise in respect of any claim and the settlement thereof and
co-operate fully with Us for that purpose.
In my view, that meant that  on an issue of how best to deal with a third partys claim 
Allianzs view would prevail over the policyholders view.
From its claim file, I see that Allianz had noted Mr Cs statement that he had caused no
damage.
However, the third party was pursuing a claim and Allianz was duty-bound to respond to it.
It was common ground that Mr Cs vehicle had made contact with the third partys vehicle.
The dispute was about the extent of the damage and the amount of the third partys claim.
Allianz got its in-house engineer to check the third partys claim for repair costs. That is whatI would expect it to do. The engineer recommended payment of the repair costs.
Allianz had noted the conflicting versions of events and the nature of the claimed damage to
the third partys vehicle. Allianz decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of court
proceedings  it would settle the third partys claim.
Allianz shouldve communicated with Mr C better than it did. I accept that Allianzs failure to
communicate meant that  when he found out about the settlement - Mr C felt that the
outcome shouldve been different.
However, keeping in mind the policy term quoted above and its engineers input, I dont 
consider that Allianzs decision was unreasonable or unfair to Mr C. In any event, Allianz 
reviewed the hire costs and reduced the amount it recorded on Mr Cs claims history.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr C considers that his minor contact couldnt have caused costs of the amount that Allianz 
paid. However, Ive noted that its policy terms gave Allianz absolute conduct and control of 
all negotiations  in respect of any claim and the settlement thereof. So, notwithstanding 
Mr Cs report, Allianz was entitled to settle the third partys claim as it saw fit.
I consider that Mr C has fallen well short of the evidence that would be required to show that 
the third partys claim was fraudulent, or that Allianz shouldve identified fraud. I havent 
found that its decision to settle was unreasonable or unfair to Mr C.
Mr C has reiterated that he suffered an increased premium on the renewal from December 
2022. I find it likely that some of that increase was caused by the claim. And Allianz hadnt 
communicated with Mr C as well as it shouldve done. 
However, I find it likely that some of the increase in premium was caused by inflation. 
Moreover, the facts are that Mr Cs vehicle did make minor contact with the third partys, and 
the third party did make a claim that Allianz decided to settle. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Allianz to treat the claim as though it never happened.
Allianz offered the £150.00 in its final response. It has said Mr C didnt provide his bank 
details so that it could pay him that amount. So Allianz doesnt consider it fair for us to record 
a change in outcome.
To be clear, my decision is to uphold the complaint and to direct Allianz to pay Mr C the 
£150.00,  but  compared to Allianzs final response - that is not a change in outcome in 
favour of Mr C. 
Putting things right
Overall, I conclude that £150.00 was a fair offer to put right the upset and inconvenience
caused to Mr C by the shortcomings in Allianzs communication. As Allianz hasnt paid it, I 
will uphold this complaint and direct Allianz to pay Mr C that amount. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Allianz to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Allianz Insurance plc to pay Mr C £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman