DRN-2331817
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the difference in premium he was charged and quoted for renewal 
when he made changes to his car insurance policy arranged by Aviva UK Digital Limited 
trading as Quotemehappy.com. (QMH). Mr C is also unhappy with the service he received 
from QMH. 
What happened
Mr Cs car insurance policy was due for renewal on 16 May 2020. A month before, QMH 
sent Mr C a renewal invite and quoted a premium of £321.74. 
On 2 May 2020 Mr C made two changes to his policy: where he kept his car from driveway 
to garage  and his occupation. This was before the renewal date, so the changes resulted 
in a small increase in premium until the renewal date of 16 May 2020. Mr C understood that 
his premium had gone down, but this wasnt the case. As a result of the changes, the 
renewal premium went up to £327.01.
Mr C contacted QMH because he said the renewal premium didnt reduce as he expected it 
to. He was surprised that the change from driveway to garage for his car didnt result in a 
reduction in risk as he expected. He was unhappy with the explanations QMH gave him and 
he raised a complaint. He was unhappy when QMH advised him of the eight week timescale 
to respond to his complaint  as this meant he might not receive a reply until after the 
renewal date. 
A few days later Mr C changed the storage of his car from garage back to driveway under 
the policy online. This resulted in his renewal premium increasing to £328.55. Mr C wanted 
QMH to effectively cancel the changes he made, so that his current premium went back to 
the original one he was paying  and the original renewal premium quoted. Mr C was 
unhappy with the original renewal premium in any event. He wanted QMH to reduce it by 
£40 due to his driving history.
Because QMHs price rates change daily, it said Mr C would need to pay the price applicable 
when he made any changes to his policy. Mr C felt QMH were acting unreasonably as the 
risk was the original risk - which QMH had quoted a lower premium for. 
But QMH didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said Mr Cs renewal premium correctly increased 
as a result of the changes. QMH concluded that because its rates change daily  and due to 
the occupation remaining changed despite Mr C changing from garage back to driveway  
these were reasons why his premium didnt revert back to the original premium. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that QMH could have 
communicated better the choice Mr C had not to take up renewal with them. But overall she 
thought QMH hadnt acted in an unreasonable way. So she didnt recommend QMH should 
pay Mr C compensation for treating him unfairly. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he says all he was trying to do was revert back to the original 
premium he was paying. He believes QMH was unreasonable in preventing him from doing 
this. 
As Mr C didnt agree, he would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C feels QMH should warn customers before making changes to their policy 
online that due to it being a live system, any changes made could cause irrevocable 
changes to the premium. However, the onus is on a customer to tell the insurer of changes 
that may affect the risk and terms of the cover it is providing. It is for an insurer to decide 
which risk it is willing to provide insurance for  and what price it wants to charge for that 
risk. 
Mr C believes it was unreasonable for him to not be allowed to make a change to see if he 
could improve on his renewal premium without penalty. I dont think there was anything 
preventing Mr C from obtaining alternative quotes for comparison purposes. But as he made 
changes to an existing policy, this meant QMH applied its pricing at the time  and this in 
turn also affected the renewal premium.
An insurers risk appetite varies greatly. This is why we see such a difference in prices when 
we look for quotes using the same information on comparative insurance websites.. The 
price a business chooses to charge and the rates they apply depend on their appetite for 
that risk and are subject to regular change. It is a business commercial decision as to how 
much it chooses to charge and this isnt something we can interfere with. 
In this case, the crux of Mr Cs complaint is that QMH prevented him from reverting his policy 
and premium back to what he was paying before he made any changes to it. But I cant say 
QMH acted unreasonably in applying the rate it did for Mr C  or any other policyholder in 
similar circumstances  each time he made a change to his policy. 
Mr C says his current insurer told him his change in occupation would make no difference to 
the premium he paid. I cant take this into account when deciding if QMH acted reasonably 
as each business has a different risk appetite and sets their pricing accordingly. 
Mr C has provided a copy of a screenshot to show what he received from QMH when he 
changed his details again on 6 May 2020 with a future change date of 16 May 2020  which 
was the renewal date of his policy. This showed a premium of £292.80. Mr C says he 
believed this was the renewal premium. He says the online system wouldnt allow him to 
make the change from an earlier date. I can understand why this may have caused some 
confusion due to the change date being the same as the renewal date. QMH said this was 
the revised premium for the current year  and this would explain why this premium didnt 
show as Mr C expected when he tried to pay his renewal premium.
I understand Mr C feels he was held to ransom as he was basically advised by QMH that he 
could choose to pay the higher premium or go elsewhere. And he contacted QMH to chase 
for a reply after not receiving a response within their timescale to his query about the change 
in premium. But I think it assessed the risk and calculated the premium on the days Mr C 
made his changes in line with the prices at the time. And overall I think QMH treated Mr C 
fairly and as it would any policyholder in a similar position.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman