DRN-2981010
The complaint
Mr P complains about lending made to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard. He said it made a huge increase in his credit limit, and he could never have 
afforded to pay this money back.
What happened
Barclays has recently conducted a review of a number of its customers cards, because in 
some cases it set the credit limit higher than it shouldve been. It wrote to Mr P and asked 
him to contact it about this. But then when he did so, Barclays said that in his case, it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong.
Mr P still thought it was irresponsible for Barclays to offer him a very large increase to his 
credit limit. He said he couldnt afford to pay it back, and Barclays shouldve known that. He 
said he didnt think it was his fault, for accepting the offer, when he needed money. He 
wanted Barclays to take some money off his bill now, by removing the interest hed been 
charged. And he wanted Barclays to accept that it was responsible.
Barclays told us it had increased Mr Ps credit limit twice, from the initial lending of £2,000. It 
had increased his limit to £6,000 in May 2015, and then from £6,000 to £6,500 in January 
2016. But Barclays said it had checked each time, and the data it had said Mr P should be 
able to afford these increases. Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it 
wouldnt pay back any of the interest Mr P had paid.
In 2017, Mr P notified Barclays that he was in financial difficulties. Barclays notes from the 
time say this was because Mr P had lost his job. Mr Ps last payment was made in 
September 2017, and Barclays sold this account in November 2018.
Mr P told us more about his circumstances at the time. He said he was working part-time, 
and earned £9,000 per year. He showed us his bank statements from around the time of the 
first increase, which showed that he was living in his overdraft.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays knew that Mr P 
earned £9,000 a year, and had rented at his then address for 12 years. Our investigator said 
that when Barclays increased Mr Ps credit limit, it had to make a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of his ability to repay the debt in a sustainable manner. And those 
checks had to be borrower focused. Our investigator didnt think Barclays had carried out 
adequate borrower focused checks.
Our investigator said that before Barclays increased Mr Ps limit, he wasnt using his full 
credit limit, and he paid at least the minimum. But he rarely paid much more, and his balance 
wasnt decreasing. The increase was significant - three times what Mr P had before. 
Barclays knew Mr P only earned £9,000 per year. 
Our investigator said that Barclays shouldve done a more comprehensive income and 
expenditure assessment, including a review of Mr Ps current account statements. Our 
investigator said hed seen those statements, and he thought that if Barclays had done more 
in-depth checks, it wouldnt have lent more money to Mr P.
Our investigator said that meant Barclays should -
- Refund interest and charges applicable to any balance greater than £2,000 applied 
after 19 May 2015. Any refund given should be used to reduce Mr Ps outstanding 
balance.
- Check for any periods when Mr Ps payments would have been enough to clear his 
balance, and if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple
interest on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have 
owed money on his credit card account again.
- Remove any adverse information reported to Mr Ps credit file following the credit 
limit increase on 19 May 2015.
Barclays didnt agree. It said Mr P lost his job in 2017, and thats when he stopped paying off 
the card debt. So Barclays said it was this change in his personal circumstances which led to 
Mr Ps financial difficulties, not its lending decisions. Barclays said Mr P was managing this 
debt before his job loss. But Mr P said he didnt lose his job in 2017.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Our investigator set out that Barclays needed to check that its increased lending would be 
affordable for Mr P. And he explained that these checks needed to be borrower focussed. 
Barclays has shown us that it used information from credit reference agencies (CRAs) to 
decide that Mr P was extremely unlikely to default on this debt. But it doesnt appear to have 
compared the information that was supplied to it by the CRAs, with what it already knew 
about Mr P  in particular that he had an annual income of only £9,000, out of which he had 
to pay rent, as well as living expenses. 
I think if Barclays had reviewed all the information it held about Mr P, including what he told 
Barclays when he applied for the card, before it offered him a credit limit increase, it ought to 
have reached the view that it needed to do more detailed checks, to be sure that this lending 
was affordable for him. It didnt do that. I dont think that Barclays has shown us that it had 
done enough to decide the lending it made to Mr P, when it increased his limit from £2,000 
to £6,000, was going to be affordable for him.
Barclays has argued that Mr P was managing this debt, and it said that it was only when Mr 
P lost his job in 2017 that he stopped paying. Mr P has said he didnt lose his job, but I can 
see that Barclays notes show he said he had, then. I dont think I need to find out what really 
happened at this time, because I think it was already clear that Mr P wasnt managing this 
debt. 
Mr Ps statements, after his credit limit increase, do not show that he was able to pay off this 
debt within a reasonable timescale. Instead, the overwhelming majority of his statements 
show him sliding very slowly further into debt. I can see he managed to make one large lump sum payment on the statement dated 23 October 2015, but this was clearly a one-off. Aside 
from that payment, his statements show that he just got deeper and deeper into debt until he 
stopped paying in 2017. 
I dont think that Barclays can reasonably suggest that Mr P was managing this debt after it 
increased his credit limit, or that the conduct of this account shows that the lending was 
affordable for Mr P. 
For those reasons, I agree with the proposal our investigator made. I think that Barclays 
should  
- Refund interest and charges applicable to any balance greater than £2,000 applied 
after 19 May 2015. Any refund given should be used to reduce Mr Ps outstanding
balance.
- After this refund is applied, check for any periods when Mr Ps payments would 
have been enough to clear his balance, and if this is the case, pay 8% annual simple 
interest on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have 
owed money on his credit card account again.
- Remove any adverse information reported to Mr Ps credit file following the credit 
limit increase on 19 May 2015.
Barclays has told us that it sold this debt in 2018. If Barclays needs to buy back this debt to 
implement this award, then it should do so.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must  
- Refund interest and charges applicable to any balance greater than £2,000 applied 
after 19 May 2015. Any refund given should be used to reduce Mr Ps outstanding
balance.
- After this refund is applied, check for any periods when Mr Ps payments would 
have been enough to clear his balance, and if this is the case, pay 8% annual simple 
interest on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have 
owed money on his credit card account again.
- Remove any adverse information reported to Mr Ps credit file following the credit 
limit increase on 19 May 2015.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman