DRN-2291456
The complaint
Ms R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank offered her a loan at a 
higher rate of interest than the one she had seen advertised.
What happened
Ms R saw that Yorkshire Bank was offering loans at an interest rate of around 3%. She 
applied for a loan online and was approved. But the interest rate offered to her was 
significantly higher. Because of this, Ms R chose not to go ahead with the loan.
She complained to Yorkshire Bank because she didnt think it was fair that the interest rate 
had changed. She said that, if she hadnt checked properly, she might have signed up for 
the loan without realising that it was on a higher rate of interest. 
Yorkshire Bank didnt uphold the complaint. It said that loans and rates of interest are 
subject to its assessment of a customers individual circumstances. It said this was stated on 
the website when Ms R made her application.
Ms R wasnt happy with Yorkshire Banks response and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Yorkshire Bank had acted unfairly. But Ms R didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The rate of 3% advertised on Yorkshire Banks website is a representative rate for loans 
between £7,500 and £15,000. Ms R applied to borrow more than £15,000, so the advertised 
rate didnt apply in her case.
Ms R spoke to Yorkshire Bank over the phone before making her application online. The 
agent gave her an illustration of what the monthly repayment and total repayment amount 
would be if she was approved at the best rate of 3.1%. But he told Ms R this wasnt 
guaranteed and could change.
 
Ms R went on to apply online. The website states that rates depend on loan amount and 
individual circumstances. And it says: the interest rate may differ from the representative 
APR shown depending on our assessment of your financial circumstances and your chosen 
loan amount. I think its clear from this that customers wont necessarily be offered the 
representative rate. The bank will take their individual circumstances into account, as well as 
how much they want to borrow, before deciding the rate which will apply. Yorkshire Bank is 
entitled to do this when assessing loan applications.
Yorkshire Bank says that the rate offered to Ms R was based upon the specific details of her 
application. The rate was shown clearly on the loan acceptance documents. Ms R saw it and 
decided not to proceed. So I dont think the information was misleading or that Yorkshire 
Bank acted unfairly.
In conclusion, I think it was clear from Yorkshire Banks website that the interest rate shown 
was representative and could change. This was also confirmed to Ms R over the phone 
before she applied. And I think the documents provided to Ms R following approval of her 
application were clear about the interest rate which would apply. So, although I realise this 
will be disappointing for Ms R, I dont think Yorkshire Bank acted unfairly here and Im not 
going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman