DRN-3037499
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his motor insurance broker Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd 
in respect of the service he received when trying to change over the number plate on his car.
What happened
Mr M emailed Right Choice in March 2021 as he was trying to change the number plate on 
his car. Eventually on 6 May 2021 Mr M was able to speak to someone who did this for him, 
they also waived the £20 administration fee given the difficulties hed had so far. He was told 
it would take minutes for the change to be done but that he needed to check his documents 
before driving. It was 13 May before his documents were emailed to him. Mr M complained 
to Right Choice about the time and effort hed had to put in to get the change done, and that 
hed been unable to drive for a week in May  including an important trip to visit his sister  
because of the time taken to produce his amended documents. 
Right Choice apologised to Mr M. It said it had missed Mr Ms initial contacts and had been 
experiencing technical problems which had affected the wait time for calls to be picked up, 
as well as how it produced, and how long it was taking it to produce, policy documents. It 
offered Mr M £50 compensation. Mr M complained to us. 
Our investigator said Right Choice should increase its offer of compensation to £100, which 
it did. Mr M remained unhappy. In summary he said hed spent around 15 hours trying to 
speak to Right Choice to get this sorted and just when he thought things were resolved, 
thered been another long wait to get his documents. A wait he had been unprepared for 
when hed been told the update would be done in minutes. He was also concerned about 
further letters Right Choice had sent him.
The complaint came to me for consideration and I felt that a total of £200, in addition to the 
£20 waived cancellation fee, should be paid by Right Choice. Right Choice and Mr M 
responded to my findings, stating they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I can see this was a frustrating time for Mr M. The process shouldnt have been so difficult 
and prolonged. I know Right Choice accepts that, but Im not persuaded that it really accepts 
how inconvenient this was for Mr M. And so much of the inconvenience and frustration could 
have been avoided if Right Choice had managed his expectations better. 
I say that because from what Right Choice has told us it knew its services were under 
pressure due to a business change and this was affecting its systems, processes and the 
way in which it worked. It was aware of the knock-on effects this was having. Particularly it 
knew that producing key policy paperwork was taking longer than usual because it was 
having to be done manually via the insurer. Yet Right Choice didnt tell Mr M this. Rather it 
confirmed his policy cover would update in minutes and let him believe the policy paperwork 
would follow shortly thereafter. From what Right Choice has said it would seem this, in the 
usual course of events, would only take 48 hours. And Right Choice told Mr M he needed to 
check those documents. I can understand why Mr M felt he couldnt drive until those were 
produced. Their production was delayed due to issues Right Choice was experiencing and 
so Mr Ms inability to use his car for a week, instead of two days (which would have always 
happened as a natural result of changing the number plate), was its fault also. And all of this 
came at the end of a very frustrating and time consuming period, where Right Choice had 
failed to correspond with Mr M by email, which caused him to try and call it, which in turn 
resulted in Mr M being on hold for hours.
Right Choice waived the £20 admin fee and has offered £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, I think that £150 cash compensation is fairly and reasonably due 
here (so £170 total compensation when the £20 waived charge is factored in). In saying that 
I take into account that if Right Choice had manged his expectations better in respect of the 
policy paperwork then hed have known in good time that his trip to visit his sister would 
have to be postponed. And if his emails had been answered the hours of calls could have 
been avoided.
But I also think that Right Choice should pay Mr M a further £50 for the loss of use of his car 
for five days. As I said, in the normal course of events, Mr M should reasonably have 
expected that it may take a couple of days for amended documents to be produced. And if it 
had only taken that time, Id have said that was fair. But seven days, particularly when 
Right Choice itself has said that it only took so long because of the difficulties it was 
experiencing, was not fair or reasonable. 
I know Mr M is also concerned about how long it took for his details to be updated on the 
motor insurance bureau database. But Im not persuaded that delay was caused by 
Right Choice. In any event, the details on that database, whilst used by the police and other 
agencies, arent the deciding factor in whether a driver is acting in line with legislation which 
requires them to have a valid motor insurance certificate. I understand this was a further 
frustration for Mr M, but its not one Ive taken into account when awarding compensation for 
Right Choices failures. 
Im also aware that Right Choice, having initially offered Mr M £50 compensation, was keen 
to pay this to him. So it wrote to him with a view to getting him to contact it so it could ask 
him for his bank details. But what Right Choice actually sent to Mr M was a standard letter 
designed to deal with policy administration issues. The letter specifically says that there is an 
issue with the policy and urgent action is needed by the policyholder. I can see why this 
letter gave Mr M cause for concern. If Right Choice had wanted to encourage Mr Ms 
contact, it should have done so in a more specific and less worrying way. Mr M is correct, 
I think, when he said it wouldnt have been difficult to tailor that letter. However, Right 
Choices actions in this respect were, technically, part of its complaint handling process and, 
therefore, they arent something I can take into account when awarding compensation. 
Thats because how a business handles complaints is not something this service has the 
power to consider. And Ive only commented on this failure at all because I think its 
somewhat of a grey area because whilst Right Choices act was in respect of its complaint 
handling, the act itself mislead Mr M into worrying there was a problem with his policy. As neither party made any objections to my findings, Ive no need to change them. My 
provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Right Choice to pay Mr M a total of £200 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused when trying to update his policy and then when he couldnt 
use his car for five days. The £20 waived admin charge is to be seen as in addition to that. 
As far as Im aware Right Choice, so far, has not paid Mr M the compensation sums 
previously offered so it will now, if Mr M accepts my final decision, need to pay him the full 
£200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman