DRN-4001239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont remove a claim they withdrew 
from their insurance records.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Fs glass top hob was accidentally damaged, so they contacted their home 
insurer, UKI, to make a claim.
UKI appointed their supplier to handle the claim on their behalf. They told Mr and Mrs F that 
it could take three to five days to replace their hob. Unhappy with the timescales, 
Mr and Mrs F contacted UKI to withdraw their claim.
UKI withdrew the claim as requested. But they said the incident would remain on internal 
and external databases, as withdrawn, with no claim settlement payment made, and the only 
cost reflected would be UKIs supplier fee.
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy the claim will remain on their records. They say UKI told them 
that the claim would be settled in 24 hours, and this is why they proceeded with it at the time. 
They say that keeping the claim on their records with no payment could lead other insurers 
to think it was UKI who rejected the claim and that Mr and Mrs F had acted dishonestly.
Mr and Mrs F remain unhappy with UKIs position and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed listened 
to the call between UKI and Mr and Mrs F and he didnt think theyd been mis-informed 
about timescales or next steps. He also said that as a claim was made and withdrawn, it 
wasnt unreasonable for UKI to record this internally and externally, and the way theyd 
recorded it was correct.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say they only proceeded with making the claim as UKI told them their hob 
would be replaced in 24 hours. 
Mr and Mrs F say it wasnt until UKIs supplier contacted them that they were told it could 
take three to five days. They are also unhappy UKI uses a supplier rather than deals with 
claims directly. Mr and Mrs F say if they were told either of these points, they wouldnt have 
proceeded with the claim, and consequently wouldnt have needed to withdraw it after 
making it.
Ive listened to the call Mr and Mrs F made to UKI to report the damage to their hob. Having 
done so, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Fs view of what was discussed. During the call, UKI 
made it clear they would be appointing their supplier to handle the claim on their behalf, 
confirmed who that would be, and that Mr and Mrs F would need to pay the supplier the 
excess. UKI also didnt say the claim would be settled in 24 hours, instead they said 
Mr and Mrs F would be contacted by the supplier in that timescale.
During the call with UKI, Mr and Mrs F specifically asked how long it would take for the claim 
to be settled. UKI explained that it would depend on the availability of the replacement hob, 
and if it wasnt available, the supplier would explore other options with them. But UKI didnt 
say it would be settled in 24 hours.
Therefore having listened to the call, I cant agree that Mr and Mrs F were told by UKI the 
claim would be settled in 24 hours, or they werent made aware who UKIs supplier was or 
that they would be contacting them to deal with the claim and to collect the excess. UKI also 
confirmed during the call that making a claim could impact future insurance and premiums, 
and Mr and Mrs F agreed to continue with the claim on this basis. So, I cant conclude UKI 
led Mr and Mrs F to make a claim based on incorrect advice or information about next steps.
Mr and Mrs F say UKI should remove the claim from their records, and from the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). However, its common practice in the insurance industry to 
record claims under CUE, regardless whether they were settled, declined or not 
pursued/withdrawn. As a loss occurred, Mr and Mrs F made a claim and withdrew it, I dont 
think UKI has acted unreasonably by recording this.
UKI has confirmed that they have recorded the claim as withdrawn, with zero payments 
under the buildings insurance, and the only cost recorded is the £19 paid to their supplier. 
As this accurately reflects what happened and the costs, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly 
here. UKI also provided Mr and Mrs F with confirmation this is how it has been recorded, and 
they also confirmed that if another insurer was to contact them, that is what they would also 
tell them. As UKI has recorded what happened, and they have done so accurately, I dont 
think they have acted unfairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman