DRN-3685877
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly sold a debt in his name instead of 
considering a settlement offer. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Capital One that closed in 2010. On 27 September 2021 
Mr B wrote to Capital One and asked it to consider a discount of 70% against the 
outstanding balance as full and final settlement of the debt. But Capital One says it didnt 
receive Mr Bs letter. 
On 21 October 2021 Capital One wrote to Mr B to advise it had sold his account to a third 
party business Ill call L. On 27 October 2021 Mr B sent another full and final settlement offer 
to Capital One. A response was issued a few days later that explained the account had been 
sold. 
Mr B went on to raise a complaint with Capital One and asked what the cash price paid for 
his account had been. Capital One didnt agree it had acted unfairly by selling Mr Bs 
account and didnt uphold his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They thought Capital One had 
dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr B asked to 
appeal and asked why he hadnt been given the opportunity to make a full and final 
settlement, the cash price Capital One had received and repeated his offer remains open. As 
Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a copy of his 27 September 2021 letter and I dont doubt it was sent as 
claimed. But Capital One has provided copies of its contact notes that shows the 
correspondence sent and received. I can confirm that theres no indication that Capital One 
received a letter from Mr B in the days after it was sent. I can see that Mr Bs follow up letter 
was received by Capital One in October 2021 as its noted on the system. And I can also see 
Capital One wrote to Mr B to confirm it had sold his account to L. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied Capital One didnt receive his settlement offer 
dated 27 September 2021, as claimed. And the account was sold around a week later to L. 
In response to the investigator Mr B asked why his settlement offer wasnt considered. The 
reason is that the settlement offer wasnt received before the account was sold. 
Mr B has asked for the cash price Capital One received on sale of his account. But thats 
commercially sensitive information and Im not persuaded its unfair for Capital One to keep 
the figure private. 
Mr B has told us his settlement offer remains open. But as the debt is no longer owned by 
Capital One it cant consider a settlement offer from Mr B who has the option of contacting L. 
As Im satisfied Capital One has dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman