DRN-3341810
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied charges 
to his account, contributing to his financial difficulties 
What happened
Mr G complained to Halifax about changes to its charging structure. He was unhappy that he 
would be paying more and that he would still be charged on weekends. Mr G also noted that 
he had been paying high charges for many years and that these had contributed to his 
financial difficulties as they had made it difficult for him to repay his overdraft. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, and as Mr G was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint 
to our service.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he felt 
Halifax should have realised Mr G might be struggling financially by May 2015 and so 
recommended that it refund all charges and interest applied from that point onwards. Halifax 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 January 2022, explaining why I felt that Halifax had 
acted fairly and so I didnt think it needed to refund any charges or interest to Mr G. Neither 
Halifax nor Mr G have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax has charged Mr G over the years  either before or after the change 
to its charging structure - are fair and reasonable. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services  and how and when it chooses to apply those charges  is a commercial decision. 
So this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr G if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr G 
fairly and reasonably.
But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably. Looking at his account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious 
signs of financial difficulties that should have flagged to Halifax that Mr G might need some 
help. 
While I accept that Mr G was using his overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account, and some of these credits were very large. And while he did go over his 
overdraft limit on some occasions, I dont think this was enough to flag to Halifax that 
something might be wrong.
I accept that this doesnt mean that Mr G wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered Halifax to review his account in more 
detail, or alerted Halifax to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with adding the interest, fees 
and charges it did or that should have prompted it to contact Mr G directly to ask if he 
needed help.
I note that in late 2017 Mr G did contact Halifax himself to say he was struggling with the 
fees being applied to his account. But while Halifax offered to go through Mr Gs income and 
expenditure to see if it could offer any help, Mr G said he was too busy and would call back 
when he had time. I would then expect Halifax to have chased this up when Mr G didnt get 
back in touch if there had been no change in the operation of his account, but I can see that 
his account saw a credit balance the very next month and received a credit of over £11,000 
a couple of months later, so I dont think its unreasonable that Halifax didnt pursue this 
further.
As neither Halifax nor Mr G has made any further comment following my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my findings. So I remain satisfied that Halifax hasnt 
treated Mr G unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman