DRN-4493348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with their 
request for money back. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G made two payments totalling £990 on their Nationwide debit card to book a 
holiday with a company Ill call S. Mr and Mrs G made a £350 payment in May 2022 and a 
£640 payment in September 2022. They were due to travel in December 2022. 
Unfortunately, S went into administration. Mr and Mrs G were reassured their monies were 
financially protected. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted Nationwide to ask for help. It raised a chargeback in November 
2022 for services not received. Ss bank declined the chargeback. Nationwide challenged 
the chargeback by going to pre-arbitration in December 2022, but this was declined again by 
Ss bank in January 2023. Nationwide said the chargebacks were declined at both stages on 
the grounds that all refunds should be provided through a bonding authority or via an 
insurance scheme. Although its disputes evidence notes also indicate S said the cardholder 
received the goods/service. Nationwide said it couldnt send the chargeback to arbitration 
stage because Mr and Mrs G hadnt provided evidence to show the bonding authorities 
and/or insurance scheme rejected the refund. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G couldnt claim through the bonding authority because their 
holiday didnt include any flights  a condition of raising a claim through it. Mr and Mrs G put 
in a claim through the insurance company, but it said it couldnt accept the claim because 
Mr and Mrs G were able to submit a claim through Nationwide. Mr and Mrs G found 
themselves at a stalemate and so referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman to 
consider. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She couldnt see any evidence to show 
Nationwide had asked Mr and Mrs G to provide evidence of contacting the insurance 
company. She thought had Nationwide obtained that information thered have been a 
reasonable prospect of success through arbitration. She thought Nationwide should refund 
the £990 and add 8% simple annual interest to this amount from the date the payments were 
re-debited to the date of settlement. 
Nationwide disagreed. It said Ss bank declined the chargeback on the grounds it wasnt 
paying refunds through the chargeback process and that all customers must seek their 
refund through bonding authorities or insurance company. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mr and Mrs Gs request for getting their money back. In situations like this, Nationwide can 
consider raising a chargeback. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. 
Its not in dispute the services werent received. And theres a chargeback condition for these 
sorts of scenarios. I note the card scheme rules say that for disputes related to non-receipt 
of travel services from a provider that is insolvent or bankrupt the issuer must attempt to 
obtain reimbursement from the relevant bonding authority/insurance scheme (where 
applicable) unless the bond or insurance scheme is insufficient. It says if the bond or 
insurance scheme is insufficient, the issuer may use information in the public domain to 
initiate the dispute. The rules also say if the issuer was required to obtain reimbursement this 
way, it needs to wait 60 days from the date the claim was submitted to the 
bonding/insurance scheme before initiating a dispute. 
Mr and Mrs G were told their monies were protected but they received no help from the 
chargeback claim because the outcome was that they needed to raise their claim through 
the insurance company. And they received no help from the insurance company because it 
said Mr and Mrs G could raise a claim with their bank. It must have been really frustrating for 
them. Its curious that Nationwides dispute evidence notes set out that Ss reason for both 
declines was that the cardholder received the goods/services (before also talking about the 
available protections). I dont think this was totally correct. 
Mr and Mrs G were keen to resolve things. Nationwide raised the chargeback and took it to 
pre-arbitration. This was fair of it. But the dispute evidence notes Ive set out above indicate 
Ss response to both chargebacks may not have been correct. Mr and Mrs G contacted the 
insurance company after receiving Nationwides response. From what Ive seen, Mr and 
Mrs G wrote to Nationwide shortly after receiving a response from the insurance company 
and supplied its response. I dont know why Nationwide said it hadnt seen this evidence. But 
I think on balance Mr and Mrs G supplied it. 
In its final response letter Nationwide told Mr and Mrs G again the previous reasons for 
decline. It hasnt explained why it couldnt do more when Mr and Mrs G sent it the response 
from the insurance company. I dont know for certain what would have happened, but I think 
thered have been a reasonable prospect of success had Nationwide taken the chargeback 
further given the instructions (and decline reasons) from Ss bank mightve been incorrect. I 
think the relevant rules seem to cover these sorts of scenarios.  
All things considered, I dont think Nationwide handled the claim as well as it could have 
done. I find there was a reasonable prospect of success had Nationwide continued to pursue 
the chargeback. I therefore agree that its fair it now reimburses Mr and Mrs G £990. I also 
agree it should add interest on this amount from the date the payments were re-debited from 
Mr and Mrs Gs account.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to 
refund Mr and Mrs G £990. Interest* should be added on to this amount at a rate of 8% per 
year simple, from the date the payments were re-debited from Mr and Mrs Gs account to the 
date of settlement. 
* If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much tax its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman