DRN-4036394
The complaint
Mr A complains about the hire agreement provided to him by Santander Consumer (UK) 
trading as Volvo Car Financial Services (Santander). It was to acquire a car in 2019 and Mr 
A says it was not explained properly to him, and that it wasnt affordable to him. Hes also 
unhappy at the amount of money left owing after the agreement was ended early.
What happened
The timeline of events here is quite complicated, and this is partly due to the fact that some 
of the issues are with the dealership which were involved in setting up the agreement. Im 
not able to look at these issues as I will explain further below.
Alongside this, Mr A is being represented by his brother who we will call Mr B, in bringing the 
complaint to our service. This has caused further confusion as they have alleged that the 
agreement Mr A took was in fact for Mr B to use the car, not Mr A. But again, as I will explain 
below, I cant consider most of their points about this in my decision here about how 
Santander have acted in this agreement. I will always refer to Mr A below, whether the 
information has come from him directly, or via his representative, Mr B.
The timeline of events is as follows. Mr A acquired a new car through a hire agreement with 
Santander in February 2019. He went to a car dealership with Mr B to support him, and he 
signed up to a 48 month contract hire agreement at around £395 per month.
Mr A began to have difficulties making payments when the Covid-19 pandemic struck in 
March 2020. He has told us that he lost his job in March 2020, before any FCA guidance 
was issued to companies about how to deal with consumers during the pandemic. 
Santander have told us that they tried to speak to Mr A in April 2020 but werent able to get 
hold of him.
In May 2020, with guidance then in place from the FCA, Santander issued a three month 
payment deferral (payment holiday) on Mr As account. This covered the three payments 
due in April, May, and June 2020 (April and May payments were already outstanding at this 
point).
In early July 2020, Santander contacted Mr A to say that payments would be resuming, and 
the payment deferral at that time couldnt be extended. They did say that further options 
could be considered, one of which was to return the vehicle and they would apply a 25% 
discount to the early termination fee, which would usually be a fee equating to 50% of the 
remaining rentals.
Mr A indicated in August 2020 that he wanted to give the car back, but he couldnt afford the 
early termination fee as he remained unemployed. The car was finally returned to Santander 
in November/December 2020, without an agreement to repay the early termination fee 
having been arranged.
Mr A complained in February 2021 to Santander, saying that the agreement had been mis 
sold, affordability hadnt been established correctly, financial circumstances had been 
exploited and the use of a guarantor was unfair. Mr A also brought his complaint to our 
service in February 2021.
Santander responded to the concerns in several responses and did not uphold the 
complaints. They noted Mr A had already brought his complaint to our service and would 
await our response.
An investigator here investigated the complaint and issued their initial view in February 2022 
saying that Santander had done nothing wrong. They explained that Santander could not be 
held responsible for anything said or done by the broker (dealership) as per the terms and 
conditions of the agreement, and they looked at how Santander had treated Mr A and were 
satisfied that they had treated him fairly in dealing with his financial difficulties and the 
termination.
Mr A responded and highlighted the fact that he had complained about the original 
affordability of the agreement, saying it was never properly checked. The investigator issued 
a second view in April 2022 looking specifically at the affordability, and said they were 
satisfied that there were no concerns with this, and not upholding this element of the 
complaint.
Mr A didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. Included 
with this request were details of the areas he disagreed with. These included that Mr A was 
coerced into being a guarantor and was never going to drive the car. He said that it had not 
been highlighted the agreement wasnt a PCP like their previous agreement, and this hadnt 
been highlighted until Mr B contacted Santander in 2020 to discuss the circumstances. He 
said that it hadnt been explained that Mr A was responsible for payments if Mr B didnt keep 
up with them, and that credit was unsuitable due to Mr As lack of capacity for financial 
matters making him vulnerable.
Mr A also said Santander should have carried out more detailed checks to ensure the 
agreement was risk free and affordable for Mr A. Finally, he queried the affordability 
assessment, saying that it didnt give the correct weight to Mr As circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2023. I made the following provisional findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a vehicle under a 
contract hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
There is one fundamental issue here which hasnt been fully explained up to this point, and 
which impacts on a lot of the concerns raised by Mr A. I will deal with this first, and then 
move on to answer the rest of the concerns raised.
The agreement here is a contract hire agreement. In some car finance agreements, if a 
consumer complains that they have been misled by the broker (here the broker is the car 
dealership), the finance company can be held responsible for this. This relates to Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
However, section 56 of the CCA doesnt apply to most concerns about contract hire 
agreements. Both Santander and the investigator here have referenced the fact that there is 
a clause in the terms and conditions which says that any supplier or broker involved in 
arranging the agreement has no authority to act for Santander, or to make any 
representation about the vehicle or the agreement on Santanders behalf. But it hasnt really 
been explained to Mr A that this is based in law, and the CCA.
What this means is that for Mr As complaint, some of the points he is complaining about are 
about the car dealership, and some are about the finance company. I can only answer the 
concerns here that the finance company are responsible for, as this is a complaint to 
Santander. Mr A will need to consider whether he wishes to make a separate complaint to 
the broker, the car dealership, where he feels theyve misled him or treated him unfairly, and 
we are happy to help him raise these concerns if he wants to do this. But because of the 
CCA, in this set of circumstances, Santander cant be held responsible for things the dealer 
may or may not have said or done.
This could include issues about the agreement being a contract hire agreement, when Mr A 
has told us he assumed it would be a hire purchase agreement. From Santanders 
involvement, I have no concerns here. The agreement paperwork itself is clear that its a 
contract hire agreement and is signed by Mr A to accept it.
Mr A has said on several occasions that he was a guarantor and didnt understand he was 
responsible for the payments if his brother Mr B didnt make them. But the agreement 
applied for is just for Mr A, in his name. There is no guarantor arrangement, indeed Mr B 
isnt involved in the agreement himself in any way. Santander have received an application 
from Mr A, and have processed it as such.
Mr B has told us that he was involved in arranging the agreement and accompanied his 
brother Mr A to the dealership to help him. Hes also represented his brother in bringing this 
complaint to us. Theyve told us that the credit was unsuitable for Mr A, as he has a lack of 
capacity for financial matters which makes him vulnerable.
Ive considered this issue and Santanders involvement in it. Santander have received an 
application for credit from Mr A, and assessed it as such. Mr B has confirmed that he 
accompanied Mr A to the dealership to help arrange the finance, and Santander have liaised 
with Mr B as Mr As representative, to deal with the problems in 2020.
Mr B has alleged that Mr A should never have been provided car finance as he doesnt drive, 
and only holds a provisional license which was supplied with the application. Ive reached 
out to Santander, who have provided the ID that Mr A supplied with his application. This was 
a passport, not a driving license.
Ive seen no evidence that Santander were made aware of any vulnerabilities, and I am 
satisfied that if they had been made aware that Mr A did not drive, and the car was 
potentially only going to be used by other family members, they would have declined the 
application. This would be application fraud, sometimes known as fronting, and would be a 
clear breach of the terms and conditions amongst other things. 
With regards to Santander, they have received an application for finance from Mr A, and 
assessed it as such. Theres no indication that someone else might intend to drive the car, or 
that Mr A was financially vulnerable in any way. Ill go on to discuss the affordability now, as 
Mr A has said that Santander should have recognised the agreement wasnt affordable for 
him and should have carried out more checks.Under the rules and guidance that Santander must operate under, they are responsible for 
carrying out proportionate checks about the affordability of the lending. We have more detail 
about how we handle complaints about irresponsible or unaffordable lending on our website, 
and I know the link to this has already been shared with Mr A.
What is considered proportionate depends on the specific circumstances, there are no fixed 
checks that need to be carried out. Its reasonable to expect that the greater the amount 
thats repayable, the more thorough the checks carried out should be. This recognises that 
larger amounts that need paying over longer periods of time present greater risks of a 
borrower being unable to make repayments.
In this case, I need to consider whether Santander carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would be able to make the payments, in order to show they 
made a fair lending decision. And if they didnt carry out proportionate checks, would those 
checks have shown Mr A might have a problem taking on the lending.
There is confusion here as discussed above around the relationship for this car, who was 
planning to drive it, and pay for it. For the purposes of this complaint, I am considering only 
Mr As circumstances. The agreement is in his name, there is no guarantor relationship or 
similar, and no consideration has been given to the suggestion that his brother Mr B was in 
fact making the payments, as there is no evidence that this happened, and it wasnt the 
basis on which Mr A applied to Santander.
Santander have told us that at the point of sale, they would have carried out credit checks, 
however they cant access these checks any longer as they expired after three months. They 
say that the checks would have shown no outstanding defaults or other negative information 
that might have raised concerns about the ability of Mr A to repay the lending. Theyve also 
said Mr A had low monthly credit commitments. They accepted his application for finance 
therefore, as no issues were identified.
Mr A has provided his credit file, as well as other information and bank statements to give us 
a wider picture of his finances at the time. The credit file shows no recorded CCJs, defaults 
or other adverse information. So, this matches with what Santander have told us.
The credit file shows there was a personal loan for £83 per month, but no other finance in 
place at the time. However, Santander havent been able to confirm details of Mr As income 
at the time. For an agreement requiring 48 monthly payments of approaching £400 a month, 
I dont think this shows that proportionate checks were carried out. Id have expected to see 
further checks carried out on Mr As income and potentially on his outgoings.
Because Im not satisfied that proportionate checks were carried out, I now need to decide 
what decision Santander would have made if they had carried out these proportionate 
checks. To help with this, Ive looked at Mr As bank statements from the period in question, 
when he signed up for this hire agreement.
His income was around £1443 a month, and committed expenses including the loan 
previously discussed total around £190 per month. There have been some discussions 
around rent payable, as Mr A lived with family. There are no regular payments which look 
like rent in the four months of bank statements provided, which ties in with Mr A telling us 
originally that he paid rent informally to his parents. Indeed, if I look at money coming in 
and out of his account to family members and friends, there are about as much in credits 
over the four months as there are in debits, so there is no indication that any formal rent was 
being paid to family.
Overall, based on bank statements from November 2018 to February 2019, the period when the finance was taken out, there are no indications of any other committed expenditure. As 
such, I dont think any further evidence Santander had requested would have changed their 
opinion about lending to Mr A. His salary was steady, his committed expenditure was low, 
and he therefore had disposable income he could use for the car finance agreement.
Mr A has said that he was always in his overdraft and didnt have the capacity to make 
financial decisions. I can see that he was generally in his overdraft, but this wouldnt show on 
a credit search, and isnt necessarily an indication of him being in any financial difficulties. 
The overdraft use increased in November 2018 but was then broadly the same in the 
following three months.
Most of Mr As spending seems to have been through retail purchases, cash point 
withdrawals and money going to friends and family. This is what we would call disposable 
income; there is no ongoing commitment to spend like this, and individuals can decide to 
spend their money how they choose. This spending wouldnt give me concern, and wouldnt 
suggest that Santander should have queried it, or had concerns about it, before financing the 
car hire agreement.
With the commitment to the car hire agreement, Mr A would be able to tailor his disposable 
income spending as needed to ensure his financial commitments, like the car hire 
agreement, can be met. Even when including the car hire agreement, Mr As committed 
spending is under £600 a month, which is considerably less than half of his income. Ive got 
no concerns about the affordability of this agreement when it was taken out, and I am 
satisfied that the lending decision by Santander was fair.
Alongside this, Mr As brother has confirmed he was present for the meeting at the car 
dealership where the finance was accepted, and the paperwork completed. If Mr A didnt 
have the capacity to make financial decisions himself, this wouldnt mean he shouldnt be 
allowed to take out financial agreements or spend his money. Ive seen no evidence about 
Mr A being unable to make financial decisions himself, but if there was a concern, Id expect 
to see him supported. In this instance, his brother has explained that he was there to offer 
this support and to look after Mr As interests.
As such, I dont think Santander could or should have done anymore here. If they had 
carried out further checks on Mr As income and outgoings, there was nothing evident which 
would mean that they shouldnt have accepted his application. Mr A had the disposable 
income available to make the payments on the agreement, and he did so for over 12 months 
without problem. The decision to lend by Santander was fair.
Finally, Ive considered what happened in 2020, and whether Santander treated Mr A fairly. I 
was sorry to hear about his job loss, and the financial problems this caused. In these 
circumstances, Santander had a duty to treat Mr A with forbearance and due consideration. 
They also needed to ensure that they followed the FCA guidance issued during 2020 about 
dealing with car finance customers during the coronavirus pandemic.
Mr A informed Santander that hed lost his job in March 2020 and stopped making his 
payments. Santander have said they tried to contact Mr A during April 2020 to discuss his 
circumstances and missed payment but were unable to get hold of him. Then in late April 
2020 the guidance from the FCA regarding the coronavirus pandemic was issued, and I can 
see that in May 2020, Santander agreed and put in place a backdated three month payment 
deferral/holiday for Mr A, as per the guidance. This covered payments due in April, May, and 
June 2020.
When they contacted Mr A in July 2020 to talk about the payments restarting, they explained 
that at that time, the payment holiday couldnt be extended, but there were other options available including returning the vehicle and having a 25% reduction in the termination fee 
payable.
The finance agreement includes in its terms and conditions details about what happens if a 
consumer ends the agreement early. It says that they can be charged the equivalent of 50% 
of the remaining rental payments as a termination fee. Offering to discount this by 25% 
brings the fee down to around 37.5% of the remaining payments.
In August 2020, Mr A has indicated that he wanted to go ahead with this but said he couldnt 
afford to make that payment as he was unemployed. Santander explained they did not need 
this payment to be paid in full and could look at setting up a payment plan with Mr A.
It then took until November 2020 for this process to be completed and for the car to be 
collected. Im unclear why this was; its possible Mr A was granted a further payment holiday 
after the FCA updated their guidance in July 2020 to allow for a further payment 
holiday/deferral. By the time the car was collected, Mr A hadnt made a total of nine monthly 
payments.
I have no concerns with how Santander have dealt with Mr A, and am satisfied that they 
have treated him fairly when hes got into financial difficulties. They have followed relevant 
guidelines, and shown forbearance and due consideration, as required.
The last thing Ive considered is something not considered up to this point, and this is the 
fairness of the early termination charge. Just because Santander have discounted this 
charge, it doesnt automatically mean theyve treated Mr A fairly or that the charge is fair. 
I can see that they quoted Mr A a charge of £5,187.26, but the early termination amount 
showing on the statement of account several months later is in fact lower, £4,775.58. These 
figures equate to around 12 to 13 monthly payments. However, Mr A had use of the car for 
nine months during 2020 without making any monthly payments, and it is fair to consider this 
when judging whether hes been treated fairly.
Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this complaint, this charge is fair and reasonable. 
Mr A would always have had to make up any deferred payments or missed payments on the 
agreement and he had use of the car for the nine months in 2020 without paying anything for 
that use at the time. Im satisfied therefore that Santander treated him fairly and have done 
nothing wrong, and in these circumstances, the termination charge raised is fair.
Overall, whilst I have empathy with Mr As circumstances and situation, I cant say that 
Santander have done anything wrong here. They accepted his application fairly based on 
the information he provided, and it was affordable to him at the time it was taken out. When 
things became difficult in 2020 when he lost his job, they dealt with him fairly in trying to help 
him deal with the agreement, and my provisional decision is that I wont be asking them to 
do any more.
I have covered all of the issues Mr A has raised which are about Santander. Mr A might 
decide there are still concerns about the dealership which brokered the agreement for him, 
and if he feels that, he should raise a separate complaint to that dealership directly. We can 
help him raise that complaint with them if that helps Mr A. If he would like us to help, he can 
let our investigator know by replying to this provisional decision and asking us to help.
If he does this and isnt happy with the dealerships decision on that complaint, he may be 
entitled to bring that complaint back to our service to be considered separately from this 
complaint.My provisional decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont intend to uphold Mr As complaint about Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Volvo Car Financial Services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. As such, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. For the reasons laid out in my 
provisional decision and repeated above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman