DRN-1819619
 
The complaint
Ms D says Naylors Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about 13 home collected credit loans provided to Ms D between        
October 2014 and July 2016. The loans ranged from £100 to £200 and each loan was 
repayable weekly over 27 weeks for amounts of between £6 and £12. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Ms Ds complaint and thought that the loans from loan 6 onwards 
should be upheld. The adjudicator said this because they thought the overall pattern of      
Ms Ds borrowing indicated she was reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming 
unsustainable. 
Naylors didnt respond to the assessment but it has offered Ms D a settlement of £675.85. It 
didnt  however - provide any details around how this amount was reached. Ms D said she 
felt the amount was less than it should be, and she asked for an ombudsmans review of her 
case.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Naylors needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Naylors should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Naylors was required to establish 
whether Ms D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint about loans 1 to 5. Ms D hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Naylors lending history with Ms D, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Naylors should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Naylors should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Ds case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Naylors ought to have realised Ms D was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms D had taken out six loans in nine months. So, it should have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms D was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms Ds first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for the same amount. At this point 
Naylors ought to have known it was unlikely Ms D was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 6 onwards Ms D was provided with a new loan either on the same day she 
repaid a previous one  or shortly afterwards. She also often had loans running 
concurrently which would have been increasing her weekly outgoings. 
Ms D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Naylors. Loan 13 was 
taken out nearly two years after Ms Ds first. Ms D had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service a debt to Naylors over an extended period.I think that Ms D lost out because Naylors continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint about loan 6 onwards. Naylors should put things right as 
laid out below  making sure to provide Ms D with a breakdown of its calculations. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms D paid on loans 6 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 to 13 should be removed from 
Ms Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Naylors Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. Naylors 
Finance Limited must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Ms Ds complaint. Naylors Finance Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman