DRN-3946688
The complaint
Mr C complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has declined a claim he brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr C paid a car dealership Ill call S £585 on his Capital One credit card as a part payment 
towards a car on 30 August 2022. The car cost £2,785 and Mr C paid the rest of the balance 
by debit card. The car was about eight years old with over 100,000 miles on the clock, but 
was described in an online advert as drives very well. Mr C says he noticed some cosmetic 
wear and tear but he wasnt told about any faults and that on a 5 minute test drive everything 
seemed fine.
Shortly after driving the car away from the dealers premises on 2 September 2022 to go and 
buy fuel, Mr C says a smell of burning oil became apparent and the engine seemed noisy. 
The next day he took the car to a branch of a well-known automotive company for a health 
check. Mr C says he got a call from the company stating the car had a severe oil leak which 
they couldnt pinpoint the source of as it was vast, a boost leak and a noise from the 
gearbox. This was followed up by confirmation in writing.
Mr C contacted S but he says they refused to do anything, citing a declaration that hed 
signed at the point of purchase. Mr C then started the process of making a claim against 
Capital One under section 75 of the CCA. He was asked for more information, which he 
provided, and Capital One also asked S for further information. S responded, refuting Mr Cs 
claims and providing a copy of the declaration hed signed, stating the car was being sold 
with faults. Capital One ultimately rejected Mr Cs claim, noting that hed been aware the 
car was faulty because hed signed the declaration saying so.
Mr C complained about this decision but Capital One refused to change its mind, stating in a 
final response to the complaint that the declaration hed signed took precedence over 
previous adverts, although it accepted there was a discrepancy in how the car had been 
described. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter, 
concluding that the complaint ought to be upheld. She made the following findings:
The declaration Mr C signed was of no legal effect because its exclusion of Mr Cs 
consumer rights to purchase goods of satisfactory quality meant it was automatically 
unfair under the relevant legislation.
Faults specifically brought to Mr Cs attention prior to sale couldnt be used by Mr C 
to argue the car was not of satisfactory quality, but there was no evidence specific 
faults had been highlighted to him. The car did appear to be faulty and not of 
satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator considered Mr C should get a refund of everything hed paid for the car, 
minus £1,000 hed received for having had it scrapped, plus compensatory interest. She did 
not consider Mr C should get a refund of his car insurance or the cost of fuel as these were 
associated with his use of the car.
Mr C accepted our investigators assessment, but Capital One did not. It reiterated that it 
thought the declaration Mr C had signed was important because it confirmed he 
understood that the car was faulty and that he was buying a faulty car and that, as our 
investigator had said, Mr C couldnt use faults that had been brought to his attention prior to 
sale, to later bring a complaint about the vehicle.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have purchased goods or services using a 
credit card, to claim against their credit card provider in the event of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services, subject to certain technical 
conditions being met.
Nobody has argued that the technical conditions (relating to the price of the purchase and 
the parties involved in it) are not in place here, so I will not dwell on these. I will say only that 
having reviewed the evidence I conclude these conditions are in place. This means if there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by S in relation to the car, that is something 
Mr C could claim against Capital One for by virtue of section 75 of the CCA, and so that is 
the main issue I need to consider.
Mr C was a consumer purchasing goods, meaning the relevant parts of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) would apply to his purchase. Under the CRA it is an implied term of 
a contract for goods that those goods will be satisfactory quality, taking into account their 
description, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. A consumer can reject and 
receive a full refund for goods which are not satisfactory quality, so long as they intimate this 
rejection within the first 30 days (or in other specified circumstances which arent relevant for 
the purposes of this complaint).
Other relevant circumstances which might affect what is meant by satisfactory quality 
would include here the age and mileage of the vehicle. It would probably be fair to describe 
the car in this case as being somewhat tired, having covered over 100,000 miles from new. 
What could reasonably be described as satisfactory quality would obviously be quite 
different for this car compared to a brand new one. 
That said, in my view a car of even this advanced mileage would still not be expected to 
have serious faults at the point of purchase. There doesnt appear to be any dispute in this 
case that the car did have serious faults which became apparent within 24 hours of Mr C 
driving it off the dealers forecourt, namely a severe oil leak and a boost leak, with further 
issues suggested by a noise from the gearbox. Although the evidence is a little limited I think 
there is enough for me to conclude the car was not of satisfactory quality and Mr C would 
ordinarily have had the right to reject it for a full refund.
This brings me to the reasons why Capital One (and S) have said Mr C cannot use the faults 
with the car as a reason to reject it. The first reason cited is section 9(4) of the CRA, which 
states a consumer cannot use any of the following to argue that goods are not of satisfactory 
quality:(a)[anything] which is specifically drawn to the consumer's attention before the contract is 
made,
(b) where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal, or
(c) in the case of a contract to supply goods by sample, which would have been apparent on 
a reasonable examination of the sample.
This was not a sale by sample, so subsection (c) is not relevant, and its not been suggested 
that the faults ought to have been obvious to Mr C during the test drive, which discounts 
subsection (b). And while its possible Mr C was alerted by the declaration he signed to the 
possibility of faults in general, no specific faults appear to have been drawn to his attention. 
So I dont think subsection (a) acts to restrict his ability to argue that the car was not 
satisfactory quality.
The declaration Mr C signed itself is the other piece of evidence Capital One has presented 
as key in making his claim invalid. Our investigator considered the declaration incorporated 
terms which would be considered unfair, so it was of no effect and didnt prevent Mr C from 
pursuing his case that the car was not satisfactory quality. 
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) published, in 2015, guidance on unfair 
terms in the context of the CRA. The CRA contains provisions for deeming terms of a 
consumer contract (or notices given to consumers) unfair. Terms or notices which are 
deemed to be unfair are not binding on consumers. 
The CMA guidance stated that terms which deny consumers the right to receive goods 
which are of satisfactory quality are blacklisted and automatically considered unfair under 
the CRA. The following extract from the guidance is particularly relevant to Mr Cs case:
5.4.5 Second-hand goods. Disclaimers are just as likely to be unfair where their use is 
restricted to second-[hand] quality or damaged goods, for example using the phrase sold as 
seen. It is appropriate to warn the consumer when the standard of quality that can 
reasonably be expected is lower, but the law forbids the use of terms which disclaim 
responsibility for failure to meet any reasonable standard.1
Ive read the declaration Mr C signed, which reads as a broad attempt by S to disclaim any 
liability for any faults which might be present or develop in future with the car, along with any 
representations it had made earlier about its condition (for example, in the advert). It is in my 
view a variation of the kind of sold as seen disclaimer referred to in the CMA guidance and 
just as likely to be considered unfair, and therefore not binding on Mr C. I note Trading 
Standards has also been highly critical of such disclaimers and shares the CMAs view that 
they would not be effective or enforceable.2
I should say here that ultimately whether a term or notice is to be deemed unfair is a matter 
for a court to decide, but when determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case I must naturally consider what I think a court would have been 
likely to decide here. For the reasons Ive explained, I think the declaration Mr C signed 
would be likely to be determined as unfair and not binding on him. This means the car still 
needed to be of satisfactory quality, which Ive already concluded it was not. Mr C was 
therefore entitled to reject it and receive a full refund. 
1 CMA Unfair contract terms guidance: Guidance on the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, p.72
2 https://www.businesscompanion.info/focus/car-traders-and-consumer-law/part-b-your-obligations-
under-consumer-rights-act-2015-cra section 12. Accessed 7 March 2023.Due to Capital Ones connected liability under section 75 of the CCA, Mr C can seek a 
remedy from it instead of S, and its failure to honour his claim means it has not treated him 
fairly or reasonably. 
My starting point is that Capital One should pay Mr C the equivalent of a full refund of the 
amount he paid for the car. But the car has now been scrapped and Mr C has received 
£1,000 for it, so its fair that this is deducted from any money he is owed by Capital One. 
Regarding the insurance and fuel Mr C paid for, while it is perhaps an arguable point I agree 
with our investigator that these are things associated with Mr Cs limited use of the car and 
which he did to some extent benefit from, so I make no award in respect of these items.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) 
Plc to take the following actions:
A) Add together the payments Mr C has evidenced he made towards the car (£585 and 
£2,200) and then deduct the amount he received for scrapping it (£1,000).
B) To the total calculated in A), calculate 8% simple interest per year*, from the date 
Capital One wrote to Mr C declining his section 75 claim, to the date he receives the 
refund described in C) below.
C) Pay Mr C the total of A) plus B).
*If Capital One considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman