DRN-2882308
The complaint
Mr B says that a car he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because he paid for the car 
with a loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, he says that Hitachi is liable to put things right. He 
would like to reject the car.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr B bought a used car from a dealership, H. He paid just under £9,600, 
nearly all of which was funded by a loan from Hitachi. The car was two years old and had an 
odometer reading of around 28,500 miles.
In around September 2019 Mr B reported an engine noise. Repairs to the timing chain were 
carried out by the manufacturer. Mr B however reported that he was still having problems 
with the car. Specifically, he thought that its fuel injectors had not been reinstalled correctly 
and there appeared to be an oil leak.
An independent inspection of the car was arranged in July 2020. The engineer who 
inspected it reported, in summary:
There was evidence of a long-standing oil leak.
The fuel injectors were correctly fitted.
During a road test there were no unusual noises from the engine or gearbox.
There was an oil leak which appeared to be coming from the bottom of the timing chain 
cover.
He did not consider that the leak would have been present or developing at the point of 
sale but was possibly due to failed repairs.
In October 2020 Mr B referred the matter to this service, and in November 2020 the timing 
chain covers were replaced under warranty, in order to fix the oil leak reported by the 
independent inspection. Mr B has said that the car has now developed other faults.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. His conclusion was that the car 
had not been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and that Mr B should therefore be 
entitled to reject it and have the finance agreement unwound. Hitachi did not accept the 
investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I thought it likely that I would reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. I noted that the engineer who had 
inspected the car concluded that the oil leak had probably been the result of faulty repairs. I 
did not consider in the circumstances that it would be fair to make Hitachi responsible for the 
quality of repairs. 
Hitachi had nothing further to add. Mr B commented that the dealership had advised him to 
take the car to the manufacturer for repairs  which were not carried out to a proper 
standard. He said too that the car should not have needed repairs to the timing belt and sent 
video footage demonstrating unacceptable noise from the cars engine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B bought the car with finance arranged by the dealership, H, and provided by Hitachi. 
Hitachi was not the supplier of the car; it lent Mr B the money to buy it, under existing 
arrangements it had with H. Because of that, one effect of section 75 of The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 is that, if Mr B has a claim for breach of contract against H, he has a like 
claim against Hitachi.
Mr Bs contract with H was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances and including matters such as durability. Relevant circumstances include in 
this case the cars price, age and mileage.
I am inclined to agree that the car should not have needed repairs to the timing chain after 
36,000 miles. A timing chain would usually last rather longer than that. Repairs were 
however carried out by the manufacturer in September 2019. The timing chain covers were 
replaced in November 2020  after the case was referred to this service. 
The clear conclusion of the engineer who inspected the car was that any faults at that time 
were the result of unsatisfactory repairs. I can understand why Mr B might feel that the 
dealership was ultimately responsible, having directed him back to the manufacturer for 
repairs. It does not follow however that Hitachi should be liable, having funded the purchase 
of the car. As I indicated in my provisional decision, the remedial work was not carried out or 
funded by Hitachi and it is not responsible for its quality. 
I have considered too the further evidence of the cars engine noise that Mr B has provided. 
Whatever it may show about the quality of the car at the time of recording, however, it does 
not really make the case that the car was not of satisfactory quality when Mr B bought it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take any further steps to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman