DRN-2579565
The complaint
V complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard closed its credit card account 
and failed to put a payment arrangement in place.
 
What happened
Vs director has told us that the business credit card fell into arrears in 2019 due to ill health. 
Vs credit card payments werent made on time and several were missed. As a result, the 
account balance exceeded the credit limit. On 30 September 2019 Barclaycard took the 
decision to close Vs account and wrote to its director to explain. 
On 23 October 2019 Vs director spoke with Barclaycard and agreed to complete an income 
and expenditure assessment to see what repayment options were available. Barclaycard 
agreed to place collections activity on hold for a month. Barclaycard has explained that, at 
this point, the credit card account had already been closed. 
Vs director has told us the income and expenditure form wasnt received but that he started 
to make manual payments towards the outstanding balance. 
In January 2020 Vs director says he tried to use the credit card but the transaction was 
declined. Vs director contacted Barclaycard and complained that he hadnt been told the 
account had been closed. Barclaycard agreed to send Vs director another income and 
expenditure form, this time by email. V sent the income and expenditure form back to 
Barclaycard on 26 February 2020 but it wasnt accepted. Barclaycard said the forms didnt 
include the required information to verify who had sent it, in line with its instructions. And 
when Barclaycard did review the information provided it didnt think V was able to afford a 
repayment plan, so none was agreed. 
V has made payments to reduce the outstanding balance. The debt was passed to a third 
party to collect. 
V complained and Barclaycard responded on 6 July 2020. Barclaycard said the decision to 
close Vs credit card was correct and in line with the account terms. Barclaycard said the 
decision was made because of the number of missed payments on the account. But 
Barclaycard upheld Vs complaint and paid it £400 to apologise for the service provided. 
Barclaycard said it should have switched Vs statement communication method to post when 
it closed the credit card as the online account access was suspended. Barclaycard also 
apologised for telling Vs director the credit card had been closed due to KYC restrictions, 
which was wrong. V referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to the 
investigator. The investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt with Vs complaint fairly so didnt 
ask it to take any further action. Vs director asked to appeal, so its complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the starting point for this case is to look at whether Barclaycards decision to close the 
credit card at the end of September 2019 was fair and in line with the account terms. Ive 
reviewed the statement information available and understand Vs director suffered ill health 
over a period of several months which impacted its ability to pay. But, Im satisfied the 
information shows there were several months of arrears on the account and that the 
payments that were made werent enough to cover the minimum required. I also think its 
reasonable to note that the outstanding balance went over the agreed credit limit. 
Barclaycard has also sent us copies of its contact log that show when it tried to call V. I can 
see that throughout the period in question, calls were made to the number it held on file but 
no contact from V was received to explain the missed payments. Barclaycard took the 
decision to close Vs account on 30 September 2019 due to arrears and Im satisfied that 
was a reasonable step to take. I also think the account terms allowed Barclaycard to close 
the account due to missed payments. So, whilst I understand Vs directors concerns that his 
account was closed, I havent found he was treated unfairly. 
Barclaycard says it wrote to V on 30 September 2019 to confirm the credit card was closed. I 
understand V didnt receive the letter, but I can see from Barclaycards system notes that it 
did write to him on 30 September 2019 as it claims. Whilst I understand my decision will be a 
disappointment to Vs director, Im satisfied Barclaycard followed the correct steps when 
closing the credit card account and that its decision was fair in the circumstances. 
Barclaycard says it sent V an income and expenditure assessment following its call on 23 
October 2019. Vs director says the income and expenditure information wasnt received so 
he made manual payments instead. And the credit card statements show £400 was paid into 
the account in December 2019, with further payments being made in the months that 
followed. But, as Barclaycard didnt receive the income and expenditure document back from 
V and no further contact was made to say it hadnt been received, I havent found it made an 
error by failing to put a formal payment arrangement in place. 
Vs director spoke with Barclaycard again in January 2020 and was sent an income and 
expenditure assessment by email. But when it was returned on 26 February 2020 the 
document didnt include enough information to verify it was sent by V. Barclaycard went on 
to discuss the account with Vs director and did review the income and expenditure 
information. But it found that V wasnt in a position to maintain its priority bills and agree a 
payment arrangement. So no arrangement was put in place. I appreciate V wanted to make 
payments to reduce the outstanding balance, but Barclaycard has to ensure all 
arrangements are affordable. I think its decision not to approve a payment arrangement on 
receipt of the income and expenditure information provided was reasonable. 
V has also complained that Barclaycard passed the debt to a third party after it was closed. 
The investigator has already set out the relevant section of the account terms in their 
findings, so I wont quote them again here. But the account terms allow Barclaycard to pass 
the debt onto a third party to collect. I cant say its made an error by taking that step. 
Barclaycard accepts there were service issues and that it should have switched Vs 
statements to post when its online account access was removed. Barclaycard says it also 
could have emailed an income and expenditure assessment to Vs director at an earlier 
point. Barclaycard gave Vs director some incorrect information about why the account had 
been closed and it has paid a total of £400 to recognise the inconvenience caused. These 
issues occurred after Barclaycard took the decision to close the credit card so dont impact 
the overall position of the account. I agree that the information provided was at times unclear and that Barclaycard could have 
given V stronger support in the months after it closed the credit card. But I think the £400 
Barclaycard has paid fairly reflects the impact of its errors so Im not going to tell it to 
increase its offer or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as 
Barclaycard has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman