DRN-3836683
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled 
a claim she made under her home insurance policy for damage caused by a storm. 
What happened
Your text here In February 2022 Mrs Ps home was damaged by a named storm. Mrs P was 
recovering from surgery, is elderly and disabled. Mrs P contacted AUUICL to make a claim. 
Due to the increased number of claims received during this time, AAUICL encouraged Mrs P 
to make her own arrangements to have interim repairs carried out. 
Mrs P contacted several roofers without success. She says she pleaded with AAUICL to 
assist her. In March 2022 a Surveyor visited Mrs Ps home. Mrs P says the Surveyor advised 
her the claim was valid, and the repairs should be undertaken swiftly. She says he advised 
her of an estimated costs for repairs at over £5,000 exclusive of VAT. 
In April 2022 Mrs P chased AAUICL for an update on her claim. AAUICL acknowledged that 
the Surveyors estimate was for over £5,000 and that it would need to approve the costs. 
AAUICL told Mrs P it would take six months for an approved supplier to carry out the works 
to her roof. After considering the Surveyors estimate for costs. it offered Mrs P a cash 
settlement of £2,608.25 excluding VAT and before the excess was deducted. 
Mrs P raised a complaint with AAUICL. In the meantime she made arrangements for a roofer 
who was immediately available to carry out the works to repair roof damage to two roofs at 
her property. The invoice provided by Mrs Ps roofer shows final costs of £5,500 including 
VAT. 
A week later AAUICL told Mrs P it would be able to arrange for an approved supplier to carry 
out the works. But by this time Mrs P had instructed the roofer who was available 
immediately and works had started. 
AAUICL upheld Mrs Ps complaint in part for some poor service. It said it didnt record her 
authority to speak to her representative which led to multiple calls by the representative to 
AAUICL. For this error it paid Mrs P £100 compensation. 
However, AAUICL said it dealt with Mrs Ps claim correctly. 
Mrs P asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator asked AAUICL to provide a 
breakdown of how it reached its cash settlement. 
AAUICL provided a screenshot showing a breakdown of the scaffolding cost amounts and 
the final settlement AAUICL decided on. 
The Investigator recommended Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He recommended 
AAUICL meet the costs Mrs P paid to have the repairs carried out. Keeping in mind the 
policy terms, he also considered what was fair and reasonable. Given Mrs Ps circumstances 
and the steps she had taken to try and mitigate her losses - and given the timeframe 
AAUICL gave of six months for its approved supplier to carry out the works - he thought a 
fair outcome was for AAUICL to pay the amount Mrs P paid - which was similar to the 
Surveyors estimate of costs. He didnt find that AAUICL had shown its calculations for the 
cash settlement had been reached in a fair and reasonable way. 
The Investigator recommended AAUICL pay Mrs P £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way it settled the claim. This was in addition to the £100 it had 
already paid
AAUICL didnt agree. It says it cannot provide us with something it doesnt have. It says 
there is no evidence the Surveyor discussed the estimate of costs with Mrs P. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAUICLs policy sets out how it will handle claims:
How we will settle your claim:
At our option we will:
Repair or replace the damaged part using our supplier or:
Make a cash payment is you wish to use your own supplier
If we make a cash payment we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our 
suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged 
by your suppliers.
We look at what the policy says, but we also look at what is fair and reasonable.
AAUICL accepted Mrs Ps claim for storm damage. Our Investigator asked AAUICL to 
provide a breakdown of the Surveyors estimate of costs for repairs. 
AAUICL said it couldnt provide this as the information is added directly onto its system 
notes. Its notes show an entry on 13 April 2022 which reads that AAUICL were satisfied with 
the Surveyors costings apart from the scaffolding costs. 
From reading AAUICLs investigation notes, they show the following in relation to a call 
between its agent and Mrs P
I have listened to the call with (AAUICLs agents initial inserted here) on 12/04/22 
and he advises the costs are being reviewed because the SV (surveyor) report is 
over £5,000 and once the costs have been reviewed and validated we will come back 
to her but he doesnt tell the PH (policyholder) they are covered, that is very clear.
So Im satisfied that the Surveyor provided AAUICL with an estimate of costs to repair Mrs 
Ps home of over £5,000. And this is in line with the figure Mrs P says the Surveyor 
discussed with her when he visited. 
We asked AAUICL to show how it arrived at a final cash settlement sum of £2,608.25 as this 
seemed to be well below the Surveyors estimate. In line with the policy terms, AAUICL can 
pay a reduced cash settlement. But it needs to show that it reached this settlement in a fair 
and reasonable way. 
AAUICL provided a screenshot showing two amounts for scaffolding which I assume were 
quoted by the Surveyor - along with two reduced amounts decided by a member of AAUICL. 
The amounts were for £1,920 & £1,440 - with AAUICLs final settlement sums as £960 and 
£600 respectively. When asked to provide details of the rates used and how these figures were reached, 
AAUICL provided a matrix which we cannot share as this is commercially sensitive 
information. However, the matrix provided isnt enough to show that AAUUICLs decision 
was reached in a reasonable way as it only relates to the scaffolding sums. There is no 
breakdown of the costs for labour or materials for roof repairs. Clearly from AAUICLs notes, 
the Surveyor did provide a figure of over £5,000 to AAUICL but Im unable to follow how 
AAUICL reached a final cash settlement sum of £2,608.25.
I dont think it reasonable for an insurer to expect a consumer to wait for six months to have 
roof repairs carried out - and refuse to meet the reasonable costs to have the repairs carried 
out much sooner. When AAUICL told Mrs P it could arrange repairs sooner, Mrs P had 
already made alternative arrangements. I think this was a reasonable approach for Mrs P to 
have taken with the information she had at the time. 
As I think AAUICL had acted unreasonably in the way it settled Mrs Ps claim, I think it 
should pay her £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it 
caused. It should pay interest on the costs Mrs P paid for roof repairs at our recommended 
rates which Ive set out below. I think these are costs AAUICL should have promptly 
reimbursed Mrs P for to settle her claim in a fair way.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Subject to reasonable proof of payment, reimburse Mrs P for the costs to repair 
her roof minus any cash settlement already paid and excess deduction. 
Pay interest on the reimbursement at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mrs P to the date of reimbursement.  
Pay Mrs P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
addition to compensation already paid of £100.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman