DRN-4057518
The complaint
Mr L complains about a car he acquired with credit provided by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr L acquired a used car for £6,175, financed with a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The mileage was about 75,000 miles.
Almost at once, Mr L had to return the car to the garage because the engine management 
light (EML) had come on. The car was in the garage for repairs for five weeks; Mr L was 
without a courtesy car for two weeks. When he got the car back, the issues had still not been 
repaired, and so the car had to go back to the garage for more repairs. Even after that, the 
cruise control was still an issue and the EML was still on.
Mr L brought this complaint to our service. Meanwhile, Moneybarn told him that if he got a 
quote from another garage, Moneybarn would reimburse him for the cost of the quote and 
arrange for the dealer to pay for the repair. Moneybarn also paid him £150 in recognition of 
his inconvenience.
Our investigator agreed that the car was faulty when it was delivered to Mr L, and that 
Moneybarn was responsible for that. She recommended that Moneybarn refund Mr L for the 
cost of the past and future repairs, refund him for the two weeks he had been without a car, 
refund ten percent of his monthly payments since 17 March 2022 to the date of settlement, 
pay interest on the refunds, pay him another £150 (on top of what it had paid him already), 
and remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file relating to its agreement with him.
Mr L accepted that opinion, but he said he could not afford to pay up front for a quote, even if 
he knew he would be reimbursed for it later.
Moneybarn said it accepted the investigators recommendations in principle, but with the 
caveat that it should not have to pay for another repair if it would be economical, having 
regard to the price Mr L had paid for the car.
Believing the parties to have reached an impasse, our investigator referred this case for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator gave. It 
only remains for me to decide what needs to happen to put things right.
I do not think that there is as much disagreement between the parties as my colleague 
thought. I will broadly follow her recommendations, with a couple of adjustments to satisfy 
the parties subsequent comments.
Putting things right
I require Moneybarn to refund Mr L the pro rata equivalent of two weeks worth of his 
monthly payments, as compensation for the two weeks he was without his car and without a 
courtesy car. And Moneybarn must refund him ten percent of the monthly payments he has 
made from 17 March 2022 to the date of settlement. Moneybarn must also pay simple 
interest on all of those refunds (but not on the £150) at the rate of eight percent a year from 
the dates the payments were made until the date of settlement.
I also require Moneybarn to pay Mr L £150 for his inconvenience (in addition to the £150 it 
has already paid him).
Once Mr L has received that money, he will be able to afford to pay for a third party to 
investigate his car and give him a quote for the repair. Once he provides that quote to 
Moneybarn, and also evidence of how much he paid for that quote (such as a receipt), 
Moneybarn must refund him the cost of the quote.
If the cost of the repair (including VAT) is quoted as less than £6,175 then Moneybarn must 
arrange for that repair to be carried out at no cost to Mr L. (This means that Moneybarn must 
pay for the work itself  not that Mr L pays for it and then Moneybarn refunds him.)
But if the repair is likely to cost more than that, then Moneybarn must instead collect the car 
at no cost to Mr L (and at a mutually convenient time), cancel the conditional sale agreement 
with nothing more to pay, and arrange to remove the agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman