DRN-3219572
The complaint
Mr H complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to close his account and return the 
money left in it to the original source.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr H opened an account with Barclays. In July 2020, Mr H tried to log on to 
the Barclays banking application and received an error message. He was asked to contact 
Barclays and found out that his account was under review. 
Mr H said he had direct debits due out of his Barclays account; and his salary was due to be 
paid in to it. Because of the review, he received his salary over a week later than he should 
have done. Mr H said this caused him difficulties in paying his rent, bills and general day to 
day living.
Barclays made the decision to close Mr Hs account. They admit they should have told Mr H 
about their decision but didnt send him a letter. They offered him £100 to recognise this 
error. Barclays also asked Mr H to attend branch with two forms of identification; which Mr H 
did. Barclays returned the money left in the account back to the original source instead of 
releasing it to Mr H directly.
Mr H brought the complaint to our service. He wanted to know why Barclays closed his 
account and said the money left in his account belonged to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He explained Barclays were entitled to take 
the action they did when reviewing and closing Mr Hs account because they had been 
informed that Mr H had been the beneficiary of fraudulent funds. Our investigator thought 
Barclays should have asked Mr H about the money hed received  but didnt think it would 
have made an overall difference to the outcome of the complaint because Mr H couldnt 
prove his entitlement. Our investigator thought the £100 compensation was fair based on 
Barclays not sending Mr H a closure letter when they should have.
Mr H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account review and closure
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I appreciate Mr H thinks Barclays 
should have told him about the block  but theyre not obliged to. Having looked at whats 
happened, Im satisfied Barclays was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when they reviewed Mr Hs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
When banks carry out reviews, its common practice across the banking industry that the 
review will require additional information from the account holder. Often, the information 
required is related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent payments or 
more details on what the account is used for. I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Barclays asked Mr H about the payments hed received into his account. I think this would 
have been useful, as they received notification that Mr H had been the beneficiary of 
fraudulent funds. Ive thought about whether I think Barclays not asking Mr H about these 
payments would have made an overall difference. I dont think it would have. I say that 
because, when our investigator asked Mr H about the money and how hed received it  
while Mr H gave a testimony, he had no evidence to confirm he was entitled to the money. 
Without sufficient evidence, its unlikely Barclays would have been satisfied Mr H was 
entitled to the money. So, while I agree it would have been better for Barclays to explore the 
entitlement of the money with Mr H, I dont think it would have made an overall difference 
and Im satisfied with their decision to return the money to the original source.
Following their review, Barclays decided to end their relationship with Mr H. Banks 
sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr H 
decided to stop banking with Barclays, he wouldnt have to explain why. Barclays can only 
close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. Im satisfied Barclays have complied with the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Hs account; however I do think they should have notified Mr H of their decision. Barclays 
has admitted their error in not sending Mr H communication about the closure and I agree 
they should pay compensation for the distress this may have caused him.
Im aware Barclays asked Mr H to confirm his identity in branch. Mr H is unhappy about this 
as despite him confirming his identity, his account was still closed, and the money wasnt 
returned to him. I appreciate why this would be frustrating for Mr H. But based on the full 
circumstances of the complaint, and the evidence Ive received, Im satisfied Barclays were 
entitled to ask Mr H to confirm his identity. Mr H said Barclays told him after he confirmed his 
identity that the block would be lifted, and the money released to him  but that didnt 
happen.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Barclays exercised
their right to no longer offer Mr H banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently on this
part.
Mr H doesnt feel that Barclays has acknowledged the position they left him in. Mr H says he 
had direct debits and standing orders set up on the account and Mr H wasnt able to pay 
them on time. I havent seen any evidence of this so cant fairly consider it  however Ive 
explained above why I think the block was fair. Therefore, I wouldnt fairly be able to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint on this point as I dont think Barclays made an error.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays were fair in reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing 
Mr Hs account. I appreciate Mr H is unhappy they returned the money left in the account to 
source, however as Mr H hasnt been able to provide any sufficient evidence to show he is 
entitled to the funds, I cant say they acted unfairly. I do think Barclays should have sent 
Mr H a letter to notify him of their decision to close his account, and I consider their offer of 
£100 compensation for this error is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman