DRN-3673289
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) will not refund a payment he thought 
was being made to a legitimate travel agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr H authorised a payment via a third party he says he believed was a legitimate travel 
agent.  Mr H says he did this so he could purchase some flight tickets for £384.49.  
However, Mr H explains that he never received the tickets and that he has fallen victim to a 
scam.
I will refer to the company Mr H says he thought his payment was going to as S; and the 
company his actual payment went to as A.
Mr H raised the above matter with Santander.  Unhappy with its response, he referred his 
complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr H did not 
accept the investigators findings, the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mr H suggests he told Santander to block the payment concerned, but it did not follow his 
instruction.  He also suggests that Santander told him his payment was protected and that 
S were a legitimate company.  However, I have seen no evidence to support this.  
What I do have before me however, is a telephone call recording between Mr H and one of 
Santanders advisers which took place on 20 January 2021.  In the course of that call, Mr H 
tells the adviser about the payment he wants to make and background to it.  The adviser 
explains that an OTP will need to be generated and then entered online in order to make the 
payment.  The adviser also warns Mr H that he needs to be sure about who he is talking to 
over the telephone when providing the OTP, as it will verify the payment it is linked to.  Mr H 
confirmed he understood this.
During the course of the call, the adviser did not say to Mr H that S were a legitimate 
company.  At one point the adviser did say she could see S online, but did not in any way 
confirm whether they were legitimate.
Chargeback
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Santander) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr H).
Mr H made the payments concerned to A, which, from what I can see, is a payment 
processor.  The service they provided Mr A was to process his payment.  Because of this, if 
Santander had pursued a chargeback claim, I am persuaded it would have likely been 
unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged scammer, S, was not a party to Mr Hs card 
payment, so he could not have a valid claim against the legitimate merchants (A) he paid.  A 
provided their services as intended, which was to process Mr Hs card payment.  The 
subsequent transfer of payment would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim. 
I do acknowledge Mr H says he thought he was only dealing with S, rather than A.  However, 
this not a valid chargeback reason.
Fraud
In addition to the above, Mr H also raised a fraud claim with Santander, which it rejected.  
Having considered this, I do not find Santanders decision to be unreasonable.  I say this for 
two reasons.  First, based on the evidence before me, I satisfied that the payment concerned 
was authenticated.  Secondly, I am also satisfied that Mr H consented to it, as he provided 
his card details to a third party so the payment could be made.  It follows that I find the 
payment to have been authorised by Mr H.
So, taking all the above points together  I will not be asking Santander to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman