DRN-2129275
The complaint
Mr P says MYJAR Limited, irresponsibly lent to him. Mr P says MYJAR should have known 
the lending was unaffordable for him and in order to make the loan repayments he would 
have to borrow further, leading to a spiral of debt. He says he suffered financial hardship as 
a result. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr P between the end of 
2013 and January 2014. 
We dont have all of the information about the loans because of MYJARs data retention 
policy. And I dont find this surprising considering the length of time since the lending. But 
the adjudicator and MYJAR were able to build a limited picture of Mr Ps borrowing. It seems 
likely there were six loans and that all of the loans were for £500 and repaid within a month 
at a cost of £600. It also looks likely the borrowing started in August/September 2013.
Our adjudicator who reviewed the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He thought it 
would not have been proportionate for MYJAR to have asked Mr P for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the earlier loans  loans one to four  were 
unsustainable. And for the later loans, there wasnt anything in the limited information 
provided which would suggest the lending was unsustainable.   
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, limited evidence and the information provided 
in this context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. After doing so I dont think 
MYJAR was wrong to lend to Mr P. Ill explain why.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it says would have been carried out before approving 
the borrowing. It has said Mr P would have completed an on-line application asking Mr P 
about his monthly income and his normal monthly living costs. We dont have this 
information, but Mr P has been able to provide us with some bank statements from the time 
of the borrowing and Mr Ps monthly income looks to be around £2,200.
MYJAR says it carried out fraud checks and used its own credit scoring system before 
agreeing to lend to Mr P. It says it would have cross-referenced and validated what it 
received from these sources together with the information Mr P provided about his income 
and expenditure. 
As I explained above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. So, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for MYJAR to have carried out more checks for the earlier loans from the 
information that would have been apparent at the time. And from the limited information we 
do have, the lending seems affordable for Mr P. So, in these circumstances it wasnt 
unreasonable of MYJAR to lend to him. 
For the later loans though I think MYJAR should have carried out more checks. And I have 
again referred to the bank statements Mr P has given us. They do show that at the time of 
the borrowing Mr P may sometimes have had another loan with a different short-term credit 
provider, but this isnt enough to suggest the borrowing was unsustainable for Mr P. So, 
looking at Mr Ps circumstances and borrowing overall, I dont think this would be enough to 
conclude that MYJAR shouldnt have approved the loans based on the limited information I 
have. In these circumstances, I think the assessments MYJAR says it carried out for these loans 
was proportionate. And for the later loans I havent been given anything to show that these 
were unsustainable for Mr P.
So, I dont think MYJARs decision to lend to Mr P was unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman