DRN-3479656
The complaint
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank Plcs delays in processing his application to 
switch his mortgage interest rate product led to him paying a higher rate and losing out 
financially. 
What happened
Mr S took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in around 2017. He had a fixed interest rate product which was subject to an early 
repayment charge (ERC) if he redeemed it before the interest rate deal expired. In around 
May 2019 he borrowed an additional £10,000. And in around June 2020 he borrowed 
another £38,000. The additional borrowing had their own interest rate deals and the deals all 
ended at different times.
In early December 2021, Mr S wanted to remortgage to take advantage of a new interest 
rate deal. He saw on-line a rate he thought hed be able to access. In early December he 
approached a NatWest employee hed dealt with in 2020 and whod said he could contact 
him in the future to discuss his mortgage requirements. The NatWest employee had moved 
roles and wasnt able to deal with Mr Ss request. He told Mr S hed need to contact a 
different team, which Mr S did straight away. 
NatWest told Mr S hed need to pay off some of the loan to qualify for the deal hed seen in 
order to fall within the relevant loan to value (LTV) band. And they said he needed to attend 
an appointment to discuss his arrangements before he took a new interest rate product. The 
earliest date NatWest could offer for an appointment was in mid-January 2022. 
Following a change to the Bank of England base rates in mid-December, NatWest changed 
their interest rate products. And by the time of Mr Ss appointment, the deal he wanted 
wasnt available. The lowest rate he could access had gone up. 
NatWest said they could only offer Mr S the rates that were available at the time of the 
appointment. In the end he chose a rate that didnt require him to reduce his borrowing as it 
made only a small difference to take the rate available for the LTV band his property fell into. 
But Mr S was unhappy the requirement for him to attend an appointment and the delay in 
arranging the appointment meant hed missed out on the more favourable rate available in 
early December 2021. And he complained to NatWest. He wanted NatWest to put him on 
the lower rate and reimburse the additional payments hed make. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that since Mr S was tied in to interest rate 
deals on different parts of his existing mortgage, their process was to arrange an 
appointment to establish if breaking those deals was cost effective for him. They 
acknowledged Mr S had had to wait for an appointment, but they could only offer him the 
rates that were available at the time the appointment took place. 
Mr S didnt accept NatWests response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think the time it took 
NatWest to arrange the meeting was unreasonable in the circumstances. He didnt think 
NatWest had treated Mr S unfairly by requiring him to attend an appointment. And he said he 
wouldnt expect NatWest to offer the lower rate of interest as that deal was no longer 
available when the rate switch was arranged. Since Mr S didnt agree, his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr S was disappointed he wasnt able to secure the interest rate hed seen 
in early December 2021. He was happy with his own calculations that the rate switch was 
cost effective for him. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think NatWest behaved 
unreasonably.
Its unfortunate the employee Mr S had previously dealt with wasnt able to process his 
application. But its not uncommon for staff to change roles and businesses to reorganise 
how they operate. The employee pointed Mr S to the right area of NatWest to handle his 
request reasonably promptly. And Mr S contacted them shortly afterwards. NatWest 
explained Mr S would need to attend an appointment to discuss the rate switch. Theyve said 
a combination of seasonal holidays and sickness absence related to the coronavirus 
omicron variant meant they couldnt offer Mr S an appointment until 12 January. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think the time it took to fix the appointment was unreasonable. 
The FCA requires lenders to lend responsibly and act in their customers best interests. 
NatWest have explained they wanted to check that the changes Mr S planned to make were 
in his best interests. And their process for doing that was to arrange an appointment to 
discuss those changes and provide advice. Mr S had a number of products for different parts 
of his mortgage with varying end dates. And he planned initially to repay some of his 
borrowing to reduce the LTV. Although he was comfortable the proposed rate switch was 
cost effective, NatWests processes meant his situation was complex enough to require an 
appointment. Even if, as Mr S thinks, other lenders may not have required him to attend an 
appointment before offering him a rate switch, that doesnt mean NatWests process was 
unfair. Provided they werent treating him differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances, I wouldnt think that requiring Mr S to attend an appointment was unfair. Im 
not aware they were. 
It was unfortunate NatWest changed their interest rate deals before his meeting took place, 
following a change to Bank of England base rates in December. But lenders do change their 
interest rates from time to time. Theres no requirement for them to publish those rates in 
advance as this is commercially sensitive information. I wouldnt expect NatWest to offer 
different rates to those available at the time a rate switch takes place. And given I dont think 
NatWest delayed unreasonably, or that it was unfair to require Mr S to attend an 
appointment, I dont think its reasonable to ask them to apply the lower rate to his mortgage.  
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman