DRN-2485987
The complaint
Mr S complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV did not offer renewal for an 
accidental death and disability policy that he had held for many years.
What happened
Mr S had held the accident policy, now with Cigna, since 1991. On 3 September 2019 Cigna 
advised Mr S in writing that it would no longer be providing this cover and the policy would 
expire on 29 October 2019.
Cigna explained that it was exiting the market, it had given Mr S the required notice and that 
as any admissible claim would have been paid during the term of the policy no 
compensation was due.
Mr S was concerned that should he have an accident he would have no cover and this would 
have a severe financial effect on his family.
When our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld, he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss disappointment but having considered all the circumstances I dont 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss policy was annually renewable  that it is provided cover for 12 months. There was no 
overarching promise that cover would be provided on a long-term basis. Mr S did renew 
annually. However the policy gave both parties the right to cancel. In the general provisions 
it gave a cancellation guarantee. This explained that it may cancel but only if it gave thirty 
days notice in writing. Cigna did give Mr S notice in writing as required so I find that it acted 
in accordance with the policy terms. 
Cigna was withdrawing from the market so wasnt in a position to provide ongoing cover. It 
did make some suggestions as to next steps Mr S could take, but it wasnt obliged to source 
cover for him going forward. Mr S wasnt singled out - he in the same position as all other 
policyholders. In all the circumstances I cant say that Cigna has acted outside the terms of 
the policy or that it has treated Mr S unfairly. For these reasons there is no basis for me to 
require Cigna to pay compensation to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman