DRN-2497761
The complaint
This complaint is about advice Mr K received from a broker working for AMG Financial 
Management Ltd. There are two main elements; which I summarise below:
the arrangement of a regulated bridging loan secured on his home; and
attempts to re-finance the bridging loan onto a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (using my own words) and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
 
Mr Ks dealings with AMG began in the summer of 2017; he owned his own property, which 
was unencumbered. He lived there but also rented out rooms to tenants, the income from 
which was Mr Ks primary source of earnings. Mr K owned a boat which he wished to 
renovate and wanted to borrow to do so. 
AMG arranged a regulated one-year bridging loan with a lender Ill call A. The conditional 
offer from A was issued in late 2017 but wasnt drawn down until early 2018. That meant it 
would be due for repayment in early 2019, failing which A would apply default interest and 
other costs.
Finding a new lender to refinance the bridging loan proved troublesome; several lenders 
were approached but werent willing to lend. Eventually, a lender Ill call K agreed to lend on 
a BTL mortgage and the loan with A was settled in mid-2019. By then, Mr K had incurred 
significant costs to A for late settlement.
Mr K says AMGs broker mishandled both transactions. He says the bridging loan took too 
long to put in place and was inherently unsuitable anyway due to the likelihood (which came 
true) that refinancing it would prove difficult. AMG says that at the outset, Mr L had given 
selling the boat as a possible strategy for repaying the bridging. Mr K denies ever 
contemplating this.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr K has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to see things on ones own terms. But I have a different remit. I have to 
be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back and taking an 
overview. Having done that, I cant find in Mr Ks favour however much he would like me to. 
Ill explain why.
Starting with the initial advice to take out the bridging loan, recommending and arranging 
mortgages isnt an exact science. The reality here is that Mr Ks individual circumstances in 
2017 meant his options for obtaining the finance he needed were strictly limited. He didnt 
qualify for an orthodox residential mortgage, because his home was also partially rented out 
to tenants. 
Meanwhile, very few BTL lenders would lend where the borrower lived in the property as well 
as the tenants. And if that wasnt enough of an obstacle, Mr K faced the further problem that 
his primary income, the rents from his tenants, wasnt fully documented in a manner that met 
the requirements of most lenders.
Viewed in that context, AMGs recommendation of a bridging loan wasnt simply the most 
suitable option; it was, in all likelihood, the only option for Mr K to fund his boat restoration. In 
my view, AMGs broker did a good job when he found A was prepared to lend Mr K the 
money he needed. 
The offer from A was conditional, and by the time A was willing to release the funds, it was 
the wrong time of year for Mr K to be working on his boat. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ks 
frustration that it took several months before A was satisfied the conditions had been met, I 
dont find consider that was down to any specific failure or shortcoming on the part of AMDs 
broker. It was, in my view, a consequence of Mr Ks particular circumstances.
I turn next to the second part of the complaint; the attempts to find a BTL mortgage to repay 
the bridging facility A had provided. This was very important; the very nature of short-term 
bridging finance means that the financial consequence of settling late are significant. 
For the reasons Ive already alluded to, repaying the bridging loan by refinancing onto a BTL 
mortgage was always going to present a challenge, and so it proved. More than one of the 
lenders AMGs broker approached expressed early interest in lending, only to later change 
their minds. It wasnt until May 2019 that AMG found a lender willing to provide a BTL 
mortgage. 
Its outside my remit to consider how well AMGs broker handled the arrangement of the BTL 
mortgage to refinance the bridging loan, including how long it took. Thats because the 
arrangement of BTL mortgages by brokers is an unregulated activity, and so falls outside the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. However strongly Mr K feels about the 
service he received from AMGs broker in connection with the BTL mortgage that refinanced 
the bridging, I have no power to make any finding on that.
The only observation I will make in that regard is in response to Mr Ks request that I pay 
careful attention to Appendix D of his final submission. Ive looked carefully at that; its an email from another broker Mr K consulted in early 2019. It seems to me that all this email 
does is reinforce the point Ive made about how difficult a job it was (for any broker) to find 
Mr K an alternative source of finance to repay A.
Ill finish with some general points. Mr K says he never said hed repay the bridging by 
selling the boat, and that AMGs broker invented this. I cant say one way or another if thats 
true or not, but the offer from A, which Mr K accepted, gave the exit strategy for repaying the 
bridging loan as sale of yacht being refurbished or refinancing. 
If Mr K hadnt considered the former as a possible exit strategy, the time to object was 
before he drew down the loan, not when the loan fell due for repayment a year later. I cant 
be sure but its likely the reason he didnt object is that he had no reason to. 
I say that because on the application form for the bridging loan with A (which Mr K signed in 
September 2017 and in doing so, declared all the information therein to be accurate) the exit 
strategy is given as drawdown of mortgage or sale of boat. That suggests to me that Mr K 
knew of and agreed with the proposed exit strategy at the time of applying to A for the 
bridging loan.
Lastly, AMG isnt an accounting firm, and its brokers duty didnt extend to arranging for 
Mr Ks accounts to be drawn up in a manner to meet the requirements of Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs or prospective lenders. That was always Mr Ks sole responsibility.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman