DRN-3590194
The complaint
Miss T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and its failure to assist her after her card was 
declined without warning.
What happened
Miss T was on her way home from work when she stopped at a petrol station to purchase 
some water. She says her card was declined without any warning and so she was unable to 
make the purchase. 
Miss T says she contacted HSBC who were unable to assist her. HSBC told Miss T she 
would need to go into a branch to get her card reactivated. She says this meant she was left 
without food or water for three days and lost a days pay when she had to go into the branch.
Miss T said during the time she wasnt able to use her card she had to transfer money to a 
family member and then collect it from them. She also had to take the day off from work in 
order to attend in branch to reactivate her card. Miss T says she barely had any food in the 
house and had no other means to purchase any. 
HSBC paid Miss T £50 but she says it doesnt reflect the loss of earnings which amounts to 
£200 or the fact that she had no food for three days. 
HSBC said the usage on Miss Ts card was flagged as part of its fraud detection system and 
it required the transaction to be verified by Miss T. It explained it has a duty to its customers 
to act on any transactions which may be fraudulent. When Miss T confirmed the transaction 
as genuine three days later HSBC arranged for her to be able to use the card again. 
HSBC apologised for the inconvenience faced by Miss T and paid her £50 to reflect this. 
Miss T wasnt happy with HSBCs response. She says the compensation offered doesnt 
reflect the inconvenience caused to her. And so she brought her complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator looked into things for her. He said the card was stopped as part of HSBCs 
fraud prevention policy and he thought the bank had acted within its terms and conditions. 
Miss T didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can certainly empathise with Miss T as it is embarrassing and frustrating when ones card is 
declined at the point of sale. I do understand Miss Ts strength of feeling about not being 
able to use her card, and the inconvenience of trying to sort it out thereafter. However her 
agreement with HSBC entitles it to stop payments in certain circumstances. My role here is 
to see whether HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its terms and 
conditions. And I think it has. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ts account. Ive considered these and 
they provide that HSBC, can block any payment device. This could be wherewe suspect 
fraud or criminal use of the payment device; we have security concerns.  The terms go on to 
say, well usually let you know why as soon as we reasonably can, unless were prevented 
by law or any regulation or for security reasons. In Miss Ts case HSBC said it did so 
because of security concerns. 
When the card was declined at the petrol station Miss T was sent a notification from the 
bank asking if the transaction was genuine. Miss T says she didnt realise the notification 
was from the bank and so she answered no. And therefore the transaction wasnt 
authorised. But had she selected yes the transaction would have been approved and its 
unlikely there would have been a stop on the card. I think that is a fair and reasonable 
process in order to help safeguard against fraudulent activity. 
When Miss T contacted HSBC she didnt answer the security questions correctly. As a result 
she was told she needed to attend the branch since the block couldnt be overridden over 
the phone. I cant say this was as a result of something HSBC did wrong. 
Fraud is a significant issue for banks and financial institutions. HSBC is uniquely placed to 
know and respond to any likely threats. And I think that a requirement to disclose details of 
the counter fraud measures it might be taking would be self-defeating. Which is why Miss T 
wasnt made aware of the block on the transaction in advance. So I think its fair HSBC didnt 
notify Miss T in advance and in any event it is entitled not to do so by virtue of the terms and 
conditions applicable to the account. 
I can understand Miss T was inconvenienced when she tried to contact HSBC including not 
having access to her funds, long telephone wait times, and ultimately having to go into the 
branch. But if Miss T had been the victim of fraud and HSBC hadnt taken any action the 
consequences could have been far worse for Miss T. And I can see Miss T was able to 
transfer some money to a family member in order to access her funds.  
Im satisfied HSBC has shown the stop it put on the card was based on a genuine and 
legitimate concern for it to take the action it did. So although Miss T will have been frustrated 
by what happened here, I think HSBC treated her fairly. Im not persuaded it made any 
errors by refusing the transaction and placing the stop on the account. And HSBC have paid 
her reasonable compensation for the inconvenience. 
Overall I know Miss T will be disappointed with my decision but it follows I wont be asking 
HSBC to take any further action in respect of this complaint. I think £50 paid for the 
inconvenience is reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already done 
to put things right for Miss T is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of her complaint. And 
Im not requiring it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman