DRN-3797845
The complaint
Mr S complains about how his insurer, Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham), 
handled a claim under his home insurance policy for the theft of three valuable watches 
whilst on holiday.
Any reference to Gresham in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S was on holiday overseas when a briefcase containing three 
valuable watches (and some cash) was stolen. Mr S notified the police on the same evening 
and subsequently notified Gresham of the theft and made a claim for the loss.
Gresham appointed a firm (C) to investigate the circumstances of the loss and assess the 
claim. Following their investigation, Gresham accepted the claim for the loss of the watches 
and offered a total of £24,000 for the three watches. This was based on the estimated value 
of each watch (£8,000) given by Mr S when he took out the policy, under which the watches 
were listed as specified items. 
However, Mr S declined the offer as he thought the replacement value of the three watches 
was some £9,800 each on average. Meaning the offer was significantly below what he 
thought was their true [replacement] value.
 
Unhappy at the offer, Mr S complained to Gresham. They confirmed their settlement offer 
based on the insured values for the three watches as specified items. But they accepted 
some shortcomings in the way the claim had been handled and inconvenience to Mr S, as 
well as a loss of expectation. Gresham apologised for the shortcomings and offered £300 in 
compensation.
Mr S then complained to this service. He was unhappy at what he thought was Gresham 
undervaluing the claim by paying out the insured value of the watches (£24,000) rather than 
what he thought was the replacement value (£27,710) as well as the time Gresham had 
taken to assess the claim. He wanted Gresham to pay what he considered to be the true 
[replacement] value of the watches.
Our investigator thought Gresham had acted fairly. The policy terms and conditions gave 
Gresham the choice of how to settle the claim, including paying the specified values of 
individual items (the three watches) listed under the policy. Having listened to the recording 
of the phone call when Mr S added the watches to the policy, she thought Mr S was asked to 
provide a valuation of the watches and he said to include them at a valuation of £8,000 each. 
The total valuation was then confirmed to Mr S (together with the additional premium) which 
he agreed. Based on this the investigator thought Gresham had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions when offering a settlement based on the insured value of the watches. 
On the time taken to assess the claim, the investigator thought Gresham needed additional 
time to investigate the claim for the theft of the three watches. But some delay could have 
been avoided. The investigator thought Greshams offer of £300 compensation was fair. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that at the time he added the watches to the policy he told Gresham the 
value of the watches was between £8,000 to £10,000 each  but Gresham agreed to insure 
them for £8,000 each. He thought Gresham was negligent in not finding out the market value 
(of £10,000 each) and not helping him establish their value. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Gresham has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is the settlement offer made by Gresham for the 
theft of the three watches. Mr S says Greshams offer doesnt reflect their true 
[replacement] value. He estimates the difference to be £3,710 (based on the values 
he provided when raising his complaint). He also says Gresham were negligent in not 
establishing the value of the watches at the time he added them to his policy and not 
helping him establish their value. Gresham say Mr S provided a range of £8,000 to 
£10,000 for each watch  but then agreed to include them at a specified value of 
£8,000 each. As such, theyve complied with the policy terms and conditions in 
making a settlement offer based on the insured values included in the policy.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the information and evidence available. 
Ive also listened to the call recording in which Mr S added the watches as specified 
items to his policy. Based on this, Ive concluded Gresham have acted fairly in making 
a settlement offer based on the insured values in the policy. So, I wont be asking 
them to increase their offer. I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, so Ill set out 
why Ive come to that conclusion.
Ive first looked at what the policy terms and conditions say in respect of settling 
claims for loss (including theft). The relevant section of the policy (Personal Items 
Conditions) sets out the following:
2. Settling Claims
We can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating
repairing;
payment.
I think this makes it clear that its Greshams choice of how to settle a claim, including 
the option (as they choose to take) of making a [cash] payment. Having established 
its Greshams choice of how to settle a claim, including making a cash settlement, 
Ive then considered how this applies where the claim covers specific, listed items 
(usually, as in this case, individual items of high value). The same section of the 
policy states:
3. Items valued over the single article limit
We will not pay more than the single item limit shown on your schedule for any 
one item, set or collection unless it is specified individually on your schedule.
We will not pay more than the item sum insured for any specified item.I think this makes it clear the policy will only pay the sum insured for any specified 
item. In this case the three watches, individually listed at a value of £8,000 each. The 
watches are listed as such in the policy schedule issued when Mr S added the 
watches to his policy. Taken together, I think this makes it clear Gresham will only 
pay the values listed on the schedule (£8,000 for each watch). 
So, in offering a settlement of £24,000 for the three watches, theyve acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive then considered the second aspect of Mr Ss complaint, that at the time he added 
the watches to the policy he told Gresham the value of the watches was between 
£8,000 to £10,000 each  but Gresham agreed to insure them for £8,000 each. And 
that he thinks Gresham were negligent in not finding out the market value (of £10,000 
each) and not helping him establish their value.
Ive considered this point, but I dont agree Gresham were negligent, as Mr S 
maintains. Ive listened to the call recording where Mr S adds personal items cover to 
his policy (which he didnt previously have) and specifically includes the three 
watches. He is asked for a valuation of each (as well as details of the make and 
model of watch) and initially says between £8,000 and £10,000 each. The Gresham 
call handler then says he needs a value from Mr S and what he wants to put down (as 
the figure for the specified items). Mr S says £8,000 for each, which he confirms. The 
call handler confirms the additional premium due (until the next policy renewal date) 
and Mr S confirms he wishes to proceed.
I think this makes it clear Mr S provided the figures that were included (as the sum 
insured) for the three watches. He could have provided the higher figure that he 
initially mentioned - but chose to provide the lower figure. Theres no indication the 
call handler influenced Mr S to provide the lower figure. Its also the case that it isnt 
the responsibility of the insurer to provide valuations of specific items (any more than 
to provide limits of cover the consumer wishes to take out). Its the responsibility of 
the consumer. 
So, Ive concluded Gresham acted fairly and reasonably when Mr S took out the 
personal items cover and specified the three watches at figures he provided and 
agreed. 
While Mr Ss main element of complaint is the settlement offer for the theft of his 
watches, Ive also considered his concerns about the time taken to assess his claim. 
Looking at what happened, together with what Gresham acknowledged in their final 
responses about the inconvenience Mr S had suffered and the loss of expectation. 
Ive also considered that in the circumstances of the case and the claim, given the 
high value of the watches stolen, I think its reasonable for Gresham to have 
appointed C to investigate the circumstances and validate the claim. However, 
Gresham have acknowledged shortcomings, so I think its fair for them to offer 
compensation, Taking account of all the circumstances, I think the £300 theyve 
offered is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman