DRN-3332271
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs W have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy on the basis of fraud.
What happened
Mr O and Mrs W applied for a mortgage. They were turned down for it because of a fraud 
marker, which they found was the result of an insurance claim UKI had previously declined. 
So, Mr O and Mrs W contacted UKI to complain. They said they werent aware of the fraud 
marker and that at the time of the claim Mr O had a medical condition which meant he was 
unable to recall what he had discussed. When UKI replied to the complaint, it said it had 
reviewed the claim and remained of the view that the fraud condition had been breached.
So, Mr O and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said it was reasonable for UKI to decline that claim, including after a review of the 
medical evidence and other additional information. He didnt think UKI needed to remove the 
marker.
As Mr O and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive looked at the medical evidence and also listened to some phone calls between UKI and 
Mr O. Im aware that at the time of those phone calls, Mr O didnt know he had a medical 
issue and it was only later diagnosed, although the medical evidence suggests it would have 
affected Mr O for some time before diagnosis. I dont need to explain the details of the 
medical issues here, but it seemed to affect Mr Os memory.
When UKI spoke to Mr O about the claim, it wasnt aware of his medical issues. UKI asked 
Mr O to recall various pieces of information. From what I heard, Mr O seemed to understand 
the questions and was able to recall information, sometimes about things that had happened 
several months earlier, in order to answer the questions. So, based on what Ive looked at as 
part of this case, I dont think there was anything to indicate Mr O had a medical condition or 
that he was unable to fully engage in the conversation, even if he is now unable to recall 
what was discussed.
However, I should note that I asked Mr O a number of questions about what happened. Mrs 
W replied on his behalf and said Mr O wasnt able to provide any of the requested 
information as he wasnt able to recall the situations and conversations I asked about. Given 
the medical evidence, I have accepted these responses and that this has put limits on the 
information that I might normally expect to be provided with as part of a complaint.
But my reasons for currently intending to uphold this complaint arent based on the medical 
evidence. They are based on what UKI relied on to decline the claim and to make a fraud 
finding. UKI has confirmed that its findings were based on the metadata of some photos. The 
date and times embedded in the metadata of those photos indicated they were taken after 
the claim had been made. As they were photos taken of a laptop Mr O said had been stolen, 
UKI concluded the claim was fraudulent. However, Im not currently persuaded UKI had 
enough evidence to make a fraud finding.
In my view, the metadata of two photos was a very narrow basis to conclude that fraud has 
been committed. I think it would have been a reasonable basis to investigate the claim 
further to see if there were other issues that might indicate fraud. But I dont currently think 
the photos were enough in themselves to show there was fraud.
UKI has put a lot of weight on the photo metadata. I can understand why it thought this 
needed further investigation. Ive seen the metadata for the laptop photos and that the date 
and time of the photos was after the claim was made and therefore after Mr O said the 
laptop had been stolen. When UKI raised this with Mr O, it told Mr O the date the metadata 
indicated the photos had been taken. Mr O said that was the date on which he had uploaded 
the photos. UKI said this wouldnt affect the metadata. Mr O also looked at the photo 
metadata on his phone and said it showed a different date, several months earlier.  Mr O 
explained he had taken the photos as he had needed to provide them as part of a previous 
repair to the laptop. Im aware that UKI asked Mr O to resend the photos. Mr O then sent 
screenshots of the photos.
Metadata isnt a fixed or unchangeable source of information. It can be deliberately changed 
by the user or if the settings on a phone are wrong this will mean the metadata is incorrect. I 
also provided UKI with evidence of discussions on the internet, which I found by carrying out 
a simple search, where people were surprised to find that the metadata, and in particular the 
date and time, changed on their photos when they later tried to download them from the 
cloud. So, I think there is also evidence to suggest metadata can change, including without 
the user being aware of this. 
Im not saying that any of these scenarios necessarily happened in this case. However, I 
currently think it shows that UKI relying on a single issue, and for that single issue to be 
photo metadata, meant that it didnt do enough to show it was more likely than not that fraud 
had taken place. As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and say that UKI 
should remove the fraud marker. 
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr O and Mrs W have said they had a mortgage 
declined because of the fraud marker. I think this will have caused Mr O and Mrs W 
considerable distress. So, I currently intend to require UKI to pay £300 compensation as a 
result of this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 25 February 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr O and Mrs W agree with my decision.
UKI sent two responses. The first disagreed with the decision and provided reasons, which 
Ive summarised below:
UKI considered that what I had said was based on assumptions and not supported by 
the evidence it had on file. All the evidence showed the photos were taken following the 
loss. There had never been any indication that the photos were taken from the cloud.
UKI provided a timeline of the online claim process.
UKI said that looking at the photos, it was satisfied they were not images someone would 
have taken without having a reason to do so. It was clear they had been purposefully 
taken to show the laptop and it could see no reason for this other than to support the 
claim.If the images were taken from the cloud, there would have been little information 
available and it wouldnt have been possible to view the GPS location and the image the 
device was taken on.
It therefore stood to reason that the photos were taken for the sole purpose of making 
this claim and that this was supported by the evidence, which showed the images were 
taken after the loss. UKI said the burden of proof had been satisfied and that there was 
sufficient evidence to prove fraud on the balance of probabilities.
UKI also said Mr O and Mrs W at no point attempted to alleviate the concerns raised or 
to respond to the final decision latter. The only reason they now did so was because of 
issues with applying for a mortgage.
It was also concerned that this decision would breach the Proceeds of Crime Act and set 
a concerning precedent whereby it would pay out fraudulent claims in future.
UKI also provided a list of other cases looked at by this service which it said were 
related.
UKI sent a second reply querying why I hadnt said it should reconsider the claim, but that it 
should pay redress. It asked whether I therefore accepted it had made the right decision on 
the claim. If this was the case, it asked why I said it should pay redress and remove 
references from databases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision to uphold this complaint and for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision. As part of that, Ive carefully considered the further 
points raised by UKI to see if this affects my decision, including looking at the other cases it 
listed.  Having looked at the other cases, Im not persuaded that I should change my 
decision. The circumstances of those cases were different and this case has been decided 
based on what happened in relation to this claim.
UKI has also said it thought the photos wouldnt be taken without a reason and that they 
were taken for the sole purpose of making this claim. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Mr O told UKI why he had taken the photos. He said he had taken them 
several months previously because he needed to arrange for his laptop to be repaired. So, 
this would potentially satisfy UKIs concern about why someone would have reason to take 
these photos and also undermines its assertion that the sole purpose would be to support 
this claim. This is evidence that UKI itself gathered and provided to this service.
In my view, this also supports my concerns that UKI put so much weight on a single issue in 
this case, that being the metadata. I explained my concerns about the metadata itself in my 
provisional decision. Ive also looked at what UKI has said about GPS data, but it doesnt 
affect my view or my reasoning. I remain of the view that UKI didnt do enough to show it 
was more likely than not that fraud had taken place.
In terms of how I said the complaint should be resolved, Mr O and Mrs W said they were no 
longer interested in the claim and the priority was the fraud finding. This is why I didnt say I 
intended to require UKI to reconsider the claim. This doesnt mean that I agree with UKIs 
decision on the claim. UKIs actions also had an impact on Mr O and Mrs W, including on 
getting a mortgage, so I remain of the view that its reasonable for UKI to pay compensation. 
UKI should also remove references from relevant databases.Putting things right
UKI should remove any references to fraud from databases and pay Mr O and Mrs W £300 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I currently require U K Insurance Limited to:
Remove any references to fraud from internal and external databases.
Pay Mr O and Mrs W £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman