DRN-4291071
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) handled a claim 
he made under his home emergency policy. 
Any reference to Accredited includes its agents and engineers acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr A has home emergency insurance with Accredited. The policy began on 6 December 
2022. 
Mr A says on 22 December 2022 he discovered there was no heating in the house and his 
boiler wasnt working. 
Mr A says he called his home emergency insurer who told him there was no-one available to 
come out to his home. Mr A was told to arrange his own engineer to come out and fix the 
problem and Accredited would reimburse him. 
Mr A says when he was told to arrange his own engineer he wasnt told there were some 
conditions. When the engineer came out he charged Mr A £400 for the emergency call out. 
Mr A says the engineer took some time to send an invoice but when it was received Mr A 
promptly paid it. 
Mr A forwarded the invoice to Mr A but didnt hear anything. So Mr A contacted Accredited 
and was told the invoice hadnt been received. And so Mr A sent the invoice to Accredited 
again and marked it as urgent. 
Accredited responded to Mr A to ask for a more detailed invoice that provided a breakdown 
of works and VAT. Mr A says the terms and conditions of the policy dont stipulate that he or 
the engineer need to provide the invoice in any specific format. In addition Mr A is unable to 
force the engineer to provide an invoice in the format required. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the service from Accredited. He said he was alone with his two 
children in a freezing cold house, and when he called for assistance no-one was available to 
come out to him. He was told he could arrange his own engineer but wasnt told the invoice 
was required in a specific format. Mr A wants Accredited to pay the claim and compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience the situation has caused. 
Accredited said when Mr A called to report the issue with his boiler he was told no specialist 
engineers were available and it would reimburse him for emergency plumbing costs subject 
to claim validation. Accredited said when the invoice was received it wasnt detailed enough 
to validate the claim and so further information was requested, including service 
documentation to prove the boiler had been serviced in the last 15 months. Accredited said it 
received the information it requested and made a payment of £170.  Accredited referred to 
the terms of the policy which said the invoice would need to show each cost of the work. The 
policy also said Accredited would not replace any item that couldnt be repaired. As a result 
Accredited were only able to reimburse Mr A for the call out charge. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She 
said she was satisfied Mr A was made aware what would be required if he arranged for his 
own plumber, and that Accredited would only reimburse work covered under the policy. The 
investigator said she listened to the call where Mr A first reported the claim, and he was told 
he would be reimbursed for the emergency plumbing costs if the repair was covered within 
the policy. The investigator said the invoice showed some pipes were replaced and not 
repaired and since this wasnt covered by the policy it would be fair to ask Accredited to pay 
for that. And so the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was referred to me. 
Provisional Decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
I understand Mr A has strong views about what happened and I can empathise with the 
position he has found himself in. I have read and considered everything I have received 
carefully. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs when things go 
wrong. It isnt a maintenance policy. Mr A has a home emergency policy which provides 
cover for help in certain emergency situations, for example emergencies relating to boiler 
and heating, plumbing, drainage, electrics, amongst others. 
The main part of Mr As complaint is that Accredited didnt advise him clearly enough of what 
he would need to do and provide when using his own engineer to deal with the boiler and 
leak at his home. I have listened to the telephone call where Mr A reports the issue with his 
boiler. He explains what has happened and tells the agent on the phone he has no heating 
and two small children at home. The agent tells Mr A there are no engineers available to 
attend an emergency so Accredited are asking customers to arrange their own engineers 
and then email in the invoice and report. The agent says, If everything is within the policy 
wording we will reimburse those costs back to you. 
Mr A was unhappy Accredited was unable to send an engineer out to him since he didnt 
know anyone who would be able to attend. He explains that is the reason he took the policy 
out. There is no further discussion regarding the policy or what Mr A needs to do in order to 
be reimbursed. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and they confirm Mr A is covered for help in 
an emergency. The policy says, we will send a contractor to your home as soon as 
possible. So I understand why Mr A was expecting his home emergency insurance provider 
to send out an engineer. The policy goes on to say, when we carry out a repair, we will 
leave your home safe and in a condition that is suitable for living in. And so I can see why 
Mr A expected Accredited to stop the leak and inspect the boiler.
Mr A has said he wants Accredited to reimburse him for the entire amount of the invoice. But 
this isnt something he is entitled to under the terms of the policy. The policy says, we will 
only refund the cost of the emergency work that is covered under the policy. So I dont think 
its appropriate for Accredited to pay towards the labour and materials to replace the 
damaged pipework. It could be that the damage to the pipework is covered under a home 
insurance policy, such as buildings insurance, but that isnt something that falls within this 
complaint. Mr A explained he called a number of engineers before he found one who was able to come 
out to his home quickly. When the engineer attended he repaired the leak and carried out 
some other necessary repairs. Mr A obtained an invoice and sent this to Accredited. So Im 
satisfied Mr A did what he was supposed to do under the terms of the policy. 
Given the circumstances described by Mr A together with the fact Accredited was unable to 
send out an engineer to inspect the issue, and then looking at what the policy covers, I agree 
with the investigator that the replacement pipes arent covered under the terms of the policy 
and so Accredited werent unreasonable in not paying this part of the invoice. 
Turning to the remainder of the invoice there are further charges for labour and materials. 
But the invoice doesnt specify what materials. And given the policy doesnt cover 
replacement parts I dont think it would be fair to ask Accredited to reimburse Mr A for the 
materials. 
In respect of the labour charge the invoice doesnt provide a breakdown of the cost of the 
labour to repair the leak or replace the pipes on the boiler. The invoice does say a thorough 
inspection was carried out. So, taking a pragmatic approach to the invoice, I think it would be 
fair to split the labour charge and for Accredited to reimburse Mr A further £75 in respect of 
the labour cost to repair the leak on the central heating and to inspect the issue. Since Mr A 
would likely have had to pay for the pipes to be replaced given the damage described and 
the fact that replacement pipework isnt covered under the policy I am unable to compel 
Accredited to reimburse the labour costs in respect of this. 
I understand there may have been delays when dealing with the invoice, with some back 
and forth between Mr A and Accredited while it obtained the information it required in order 
to validate the claim. Ive considered what happened here and I dont think Accredited has 
acted unreasonably. As it is only obliged to pay for claim related costs it is reasonable and 
usual that it will need to validate the work that was completed to make sure this meets its 
liability and doesnt exceed it. And it was unable to do this effectively based on the original 
invoice Mr A provided. 
I can see Mr A has suffered some stress as a result of this matter and I empathise with the 
situation. Ive thought about the impact this matter is likely to have had on Mr A given the 
circumstances he describes with two small children and a wife who is unwell. His home 
emergency cover is to protect him in situations such as this. And so when Accredited were 
unable to send someone out I think it would have caused Mr A some distress. 
I understand Accredited have explained it was a particularly busy period and it wasnt 
possible for an engineer to attend Mr A. So allowing Mr A to use his own engineer was a 
reasonable solution. However I think part of the premium Mr A has paid for is the 
convenience of contacting his insurer in an emergency and having the insurer arrange an 
appropriate engineer to attend to the repair. I also dont underestimate the difficulty Mr A had 
in trying to contact an appropriate contractor to attend. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr A didnt raise any additional points or query my findings. 
Accredited raised some points that Ill address here. Accredited has no issue with 
contributing half of the labour costs for the boiler repair  an amount of £75. So I wont 
comment on this further.Accredited say £100 for the trouble and upset isnt reasonable given there is always an 
element of inconvenience when dealing with insurance claims of this type. They said the lack 
of engineers was out of its control due to the weather surge and a shortage of engineers. It 
also said Mr A didnt pay a premium for the home emergency, that its a free add-on to Mr 
As home insurance policy. And it questioned whether the element of trouble and upset was 
awarded because Accredited didnt consider Mr As claim properly in the first instance. 
To clarify, the reason I awarded Mr A £100 for trouble and upset is based on my review of 
the evidence provided, including Mr As compelling and consistent testimony of trying to 
arrange a repair for his boiler, with two small children and a wife who was unwell. Whether 
Mr A specifically paid for his home emergency cover is irrelevant here. He pays for his home 
insurance. And in any event when offering and providing a service such as home emergency 
it entitles the customer to think they are covered in the event of an emergency. On this 
occasion Mr A wasnt. 
I also dont underestimate the difficulty Mr A had in trying to find a suitable engineer. 
Accredited said it was unable to find an engineer despite its network of businesses and 
contractors. So I think its more likely than not that Mr A would have similar issues when 
finding a suitable contractor. 
So the award for trouble and upset is to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
A that was in addition to the usual stress of dealing with claims such as these. I think this 
amount is fair and falls in line with the services approach to distress and inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accrediteds further comments didnt persuade me to make any changes to my provisional 
decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision) Im satisfied 
it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what Accredited should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mr A back in the position he would have been, had Accredited 
acted fairly in the first instance. 
In this situation, had Accredited acted fairly, I think it would have covered the cost of Mr As 
call out charge plus the labour involved in carrying out the repair. And this would have meant 
Mr A had a lesser amount payable to the engineer. 
So I think these amounts should be paid to Mr A, along with 8% interest from the date Mr A 
paid the engineer, to the date of payment to recognise the length of time Mr A has been 
without access to these funds. Id expect Mr A to evidence when he paid the engineer so 
Accredited is able to calculate this interest correctly. 
And had Accredited settled the claim fairly in the first instance, I dont think Mr A wouldve 
needed to continue to engage with Accredited, the engineer, and ourselves, in an attempt to 
recoup the amounts he felt should be paid under the policy. Im satisfied this has taken time 
and effort from Mr A, and I dont doubt it wouldve been both stressful and upsetting during 
that process.  So I intend to direct Accredited to pay Mr A £100 to recognise this trouble and upset. And I think this fair and falls in line with our services approach. So I intend to direct 
Accredited to pay this additional amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to do what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman