DRN-3248881
The complaint
Mr W complains about the level of compensation offered by American International Group 
UK Limited (AIG), following a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W held a mobile phone insurance policy with AIG. He made a claim for damage 
regarding his phone. AIG accepted the claim, but sent Mr W an incorrect replacement 
phone, instead of a like-for-like device. Mr W said that he had to make a few calls and send 
a few emails, to resolve the issues. So, he raised a complaint to AIG due to the poor 
customer service he experienced. 
AIG accepted that the level of customer service fell below its usual standards. It said that its 
claim handler had made an error in registering his phone which resulted in him receiving the 
wrong replacement handset. AIG apologised for the error and in recognition of this, 
ultimately offered Mr W £35 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this offer and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
AIG had not only apologised for the error but had also taken steps to correct the error that it 
made. She concluded that the offer of £35 compensation for the inconvenience caused was 
fair and reasonable and she was unable to ask AIG to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. 
AIG accepted the view, Mr W did not. He said that the offer of compensation was derisory 
and unfair and didnt adequately reflect the stress, the time spent and wasted by him. So, he 
asked for a decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr W will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this 
is fair.  
Mr W made a claim for a damaged phone under the policy he held with AIG. It accepted that 
claim but during the claims process its advisor made the error of incorrectly registering the 
phone. This resulted in the wrong model replacement phone being sent to Mr W. 
AIG apologised for this error, replaced the incorrect phone with the correct phone and 
offered compensation for this error of £35.00. I understand that Mr W is seeking a greater 
amount of compensation. Primarily due to the amount of time that he spent having to call, 
email and chase AIG to resolve the claim. 
AIG offered compensation as it recognised that an error had occurred. Our role isnt to fine 
or to punish the businesses we cover. Thats because were not the industry regulator. 
Rather, we look at the effect on the customer including their upset. I can make awards for a 
consumers distress and inconvenience though, if I think a business has done something 
wrong which has caused them trouble, upset or material inconvenience.
AIG has accepted that there was a poor level of customer service provided to Mr W. So, its 
fair for AIG to recognise this. It should be noted that AIG acted quickly to resolve the error 
and thereby minimise the impact on Mr W.  
Generally, we would consider that an apology is usually enough to remedy small 
administrative errors, provided they cause minimal impact and are resolved quicky. I think 
AIG has done just that. It also offered a monetary award. In these circumstances, I think that 
the £35 offered by AIG feels fair and reasonable and recognises the distress and 
inconvenience Mr W has suffered.
Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Mr W was looking for, I 
am satisfied that AIG was fair in its offer of compensation. Accordingly, I wont be asking it to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
American International Group UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £35 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that American International Group UK Limited should pay £35 (If it hasnt 
already done so).
American International Group UK Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman