DRN-2896780
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains about delays from National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
when settling accounts. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr J passed away and Mr and Mrs L, the executors, notified NS&I. 
On 8 July 2020 the Grant of Probate was forwarded to NS&I and returned a few days later. 
NS&I advised there were delays in processing withdrawal requests. 
Mr and Mrs L complained and NS&I issued its final response on 1 August 2020. It said 
changes to the way it operates caused by Covid had caused delays and that it would review 
the claim documents at the earliest opportunity. 
The funds were paid out to the executors on 4 September 2020. Mr and Mrs L asked for 
additional information to allow them to complete a tax return for the estate and NS&I 
responded again on 13 October 2020. 
The executors referred the estate of Mr Js complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They agreed there were delays but through operating conditions caused by the 
pandemic were the primary cause. The investigator thought NS&I had dealt with the estate 
of Mr Js complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. On behalf of the estate, Mr L 
asked to appeal and, amongst other things, said NS&I had taken substantially longer than 
other businesses to settle the accounts and that the delay caused issues settling tax 
liabilities. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L has told us that other businesses that held funds on behalf of the estate of Mr J were 
quicker to settle and not impacted in the same way as NS&I by the pandemic. I take Mr Ls 
point and dont doubt that NS&I took longer than the other businesses he dealt with. But we 
cant fine or punish a business for delays, our role is to consider whether a business has 
treated its customer fairly. If an error or delay by a business has led to a financial loss, well 
step in and award compensation to ensure the consumer hasnt lost out. Our rules allow us 
to award compensation to cover a loss and the inconvenience caused to the complainant. 
As our investigator has said, the complainant in this case is the estate of Mr J. I appreciate 
Mr Ls comments about the level of trouble and upset he and Mrs L have been caused in 
their roles as executor. But our rules only allow compensation to be awarded, in terms of the 
distress caused, to the complainant not its representatives. Ive looked at the delay and 
considered everything the executors have told us about how it impacted the estate of Mr J to 
decide how to fairly resolve this complaint. 
NS&I says the delay in settling the estates accounts was caused by changes in the way it 
operates due to the pandemic. I accept other businesses were able to settle accounts 
quicker. However, I cant say NS&Is actions were unfair on that basis alone. I agree that 
there were delays and can see that caused some issues for the executors. But I dont think 
its fair dismiss NS&Is claim that it was impacted by the pandemic on the basis that other 
businesses were able to settle quicker. NS&I has explained staffing was limited during this 
time and that there were issues beyond its control that led to delays. Im satisfied thats the 
case.
Mr L explained the delay made completing tax returns with HMRC difficult but hasnt told us 
about any specific financial loss caused to the estate of Mr J. As the timeline in this case 
doesnt appear to have led to a financial loss to the estate of Mr J, Im not telling NS&I to pay 
compensation on that basis. And, as Ive said, I think NS&I makes a reasonable point when 
it says administering and settling accounts was taking longer during the period in question. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but Im satisfied NS&I has dealt with the estate of 
Mr Js complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman