DRN-3759783
The complaint
Mr D complains about delays and customer service issues when paying out a policy he held 
with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr Ds policy was due to mature in March 2022 so he contacted Aviva prior to that to ask for 
a maturity pack and confirm the details. There were delays with the maturity which wasnt 
sent when it shouldve been so Mr D had to contact Aviva again.
The problems with the maturity pack meant there was a delay paying the funds. Mr D 
complained about the service he had received and the delay in the funds saying it caused 
him a financial loss. Aviva looked into things and upheld the complaint paying Mr D £150 for 
what happened and apologised for any inconvenience caused. 
Mr D felt more compensation was due so brought his complaint to our service where one of 
our Investigators looked into what happened. They considered all the evidence provided by 
Mr D and thought the £150 already paid was fair. 
Mr D disagreed saying he had the policy for 25 years and there was anxiety as well as 
running around to sort out the payment. Because an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr D that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
All parties agree there was a delay and that Mr D shouldve received better customer 
service. The issue for me to decide is whether the apology given and the payment of £150 is 
a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. And looking at what happened Im 
satisfied that it is.
The policy was due to mature on Tuesday 1 March 2022 and the funds were paid to Mr D 
the next week on Tuesday 8 March 2022. 
Under normal circumstances following Avivas processes the funds wouldve taken several 
(usually three) days after maturity to reach Mr Ds account. So its most likely if things had 
happened as they should have happened then the funds would have reached Mr D on the 
Thursday of the same week. 
So this means the actual delay in receiving the funds is from Thursday (when the funds 
shouldve been received) to Tuesday (when the funds were actually received)  six days 
inclusive. When paying the funds on the Tuesday Aviva used a same day payment service 
as a special arrangement because of the delays that had already been caused. I think this 
was the right thing to do in order to avoid any further delays.
Mr D said he suffered a financial loss because of the delay and Ive reviewed all of the 
information that has been provided. This included information about a credit card, mortgage 
offer and school fees that were due to be paid. Based on this information, and the timing of 
the payment, Im not persuaded that the delay of several days caused Mr D any financial 
loss. 
Mr D held the policy for some 25 years and I can understand his disappointment that at the 
end there were unexpected and unwelcome problems. I also know that it was a difficult year 
for Mr D with health issues and bereavement. He also feels that Aviva would have been 
relentless and unforgiving if he had missed a payment, but they seem to be getting away 
with delays in making payments to him. 
The delay in payment, and the customer service Mr D received clearly caused him some 
inconvenience. Mr D made several phone calls to Aviva and he wasnt sent a maturity pack 
as he shouldve been. I know there was also worry about how long the delay might be. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened, including everything discussed 
above, Im satisfied the £150 payment is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the 
complaint. 
Thats not to say that Mr D wasnt affected by what happened; I think he clearly was. 
However I wont be asking Aviva to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman