DRN-3991887
The complaint
Mr D complains that Connells Limited delayed his mortgage application causing it to lapse. 
He says this meant he had to re-apply at a time when interest rates had increased.
What happened
Mr D dealt with Sequence, an appointed representative of Connells Limited. For the 
purposes of this decision Ill refer to Connells when referencing acts or omissions by 
Sequence. 
Mr D contacted Connells Limited to arrange a repayment mortgage for him. Connells Limited 
submitted a mortgage application on Mr Ds behalf in early March 2022. Later that month the 
lender requested more information and evidence in relation to the mortgage application. 
In summary the lender wanted:
Clarification of a discrepancy on Mr Ds pay slip.
Six months salary mandated bank statements and corresponding pay slips to cross 
reference Mr Ds income. 
Mr Ds P60 for 2021 and P45 from his previous employer.
An explanation of some transactions on Mr Ds account.
Connells Limited contacted Mr D by email to request this information and followed up with 
him this way when it didnt receive a response. The lender informed Connells Limited that 
without this information, the application would lapse on 15 June 2022.
On 8 June 2022, Connells Limited called Mr D to chase up this information. Mr D explained 
he hadnt seen the emails (he thought they likely went to his junk folder) and that one week 
wasnt enough time for him to obtain what was being asked for.
Mr D provided an explanation in relation to his pay slips and a copy of his bank statements. 
He also arranged for his employer to explain why they couldnt provide a P60 for 2021 but 
could provide a P45 instead. Connells Limited passed this information onto the lender.
On 30 June 2022 Connells Limited informed Mr D that as neither the P60 or P45 for Mr D 
had been provided, the lender had the lapsed the application.
Connells Limited made Mr D aware of other lenders he could apply with, but Mr D asked it to 
re-apply with the same lender. This application was successful.
Mr D complained that the interest rate on his mortgage was higher than it would have been if 
his initial application with the same lender had been successfully progressed. He says 
Connells Limited caused delays by failing to contact him by telephone sooner and that this is 
why his initial application lapsed.
Connells Limited didnt agree, it said that Mr D had responded to emails in the past and that 
it was outside of its control what additional information the lender required. But it did offer 
Mr D £350 compensation and a partial refund of its lifetime fee  in total £748.50 to 
apologise for not doing more to contact Mr D to obtain the information needed.
Mr D says he wants the difference between the interest rates on the two products (his initial 
application and his successful application) for the five-year fixed interest rate period.
When Mr D complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they thought that email was an acceptable method of contact in the circumstances, 
and whilst Connells could have done more, the compensation already offered was enough to 
put matters right. They said the application lapsed because Mr D didnt provide his P45 or 
P60 which the lender required.
Mr D didnt agree, he said the delay meant he didnt have time to provide the lender with 
what it needed or to agree a suitable alternative.
The matter was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman and I asked the investigator 
to gather some further information. Both Connells Limited and Mr D were asked how Mr D 
had confirmed his preferred method of contact. Whilst Mr D didnt respond by the deadline 
set, Connells Limited responded saying that during the fact find Mr Ds preferred method of 
contact was email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Connells Limited has already made a fair offer to put matters right 
and so Im not recommending it do anything additional. This is for the following reasons:
The initial mortgage application (submitted in March 2022) lapsed because the lender 
didnt receive the documentation its underwriter requested as part of their review of 
the application.
Whilst Mr D did provide some of what the lender asked for, he didnt provide a copy 
of his P60 or P45. It isnt Connells Limiteds fault that the lender required these 
documents or for any potential inconsistency if the same lender progressed a 
separate application without them. Any issues in relation to what the lender required 
would need to be raised with that business directly. Connells Limiteds notes show it 
did share Mr D and his employers explanation (about what he could and couldnt 
provide and why) regarding these documents with the lender at the time, so I dont 
think its responsible for the application lapsing.
Mr D says Connells Limited caused delays by emailing him rather than telephoning 
him. However, I dont think it was inappropriate for Connells Limited to initially have 
asked for this information by email as it had successfully corresponded with Mr D this 
way previously. And I havent seen any evidence to support that Mr D asked 
Connells Limited not to contact him this way.
I agree that when Connells Limited didnt receive a response to its emails, in the 
context of the mortgage application timeframes, that it would have been reasonable 
to expect Connells Limited to try another method of communication sooner that it did. 
But I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude this delay was the main cause of 
Mr Ds application lapsing. This is because it isnt Connells Limiteds fault that Mr D didnt see its emails, and ultimately Mr D wasnt able to provide everything the lender 
requested. As Ive said, Connells Limited isnt responsible for the lender not 
accepting Mr Ds explanation around why he couldnt provide certain documents.
Whilst it is possible that had this explanation been provided sooner the lenders 
underwriter may have been able to agree an alternative, on the evidence available, I 
dont have enough to conclude this is more likely than not to have happened. This is 
because there is an element of individual judgement to an underwriters decisions. 
But even if this was the case, Ive explained why I dont think Connells Limited 
caused the majority of the delay in responding to the lender.
I think the compensation (£350 plus a partial refund of its lifetime fee  in total 
£748.50) that Connells Limited has offered Mr D is sufficient to recognise that it ought 
to have called him sooner. I appreciate it would have been stressful for Mr D to have 
such a short timeframe in which to gather the information requested by the lender, 
and that this was poor customer service. But Connells Limited has offered more to 
Mr D than our service is likely to have recommended based on our published award 
guidance, so I dont think it needs to increase this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Connells Limited has already made a fair offer to settle the complaint 
and that it should pay Mr D £748.50 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman