DRN-3440427
The complaint
Mr H considers Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to stop an international 
transfer he made that was as a result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, on 18 February 2021 Mr H made 
an international payment of €800 through online banking to a beneficiary account in France. 
The payment was made at 2:49pm.
Shortly after the payment was made, Mr H realised that he may have fallen victim to a scam. 
After checking his account, Mr H saw that the payment was still showing as pending on his 
account balance. As Mr H thought the payment hadnt gone or been debited, called 
Santander to try and stop the payment.
Mr H called Santander early in the evening of 18 February 2021. Mr H spoke to an adviser 
who, after trying to contact various departments and after speaking to a manager, was told 
that the team / department who could look into it and possibly stop the payment were gone 
for the day. The adviser was then informed to tell Mr H that if the payment was still showing 
as pending the next morning to call back at 8:00am.
Mr H was dissatisfied at this  as he felt he had contacted Santander and had put them on 
notice regarding the payment. Mr H did call back the next day. The adviser that spoke with 
Mr H that morning emailed the relevant team / department and informed Mr H that the 
payment would be stopped. Later on in the day Mr H checked his account and saw that the 
payment had been debited. Mr H then contacted Santander who then ultimately attempted a 
recall of the payment which was unfortunately unsuccessful.
Unhappy, Mr H complained to Santander as he considered Santander could have done 
more to prevent his loss as he had informed them about his concerns regarding the payment 
prior to it debiting his account. Mr H was also unhappy as he had been told the payment 
would be stopped.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint  but paid Mr H £50 as compensation for the level 
of service he received, recognising that the information it provided to Mr H could have been 
clearer.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr H referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they 
considered that Santander did try to stop the payment and then latterly try and recall the 
payment which was ultimately unsuccessful. But they acknowledged that Santander couldve 
made it clearer to Mr H about its limitations in stopping payments and also that recalling a 
payment is done on a best endeavour basis. They therefore considered Santanders offer of 
£50 as compensation for the unclear information Mr H was provided with was fair.
Mr H remained of the opinion that he had been assured that the payment wouldnt leave his 
account  so considered Santander should be liable.
As Mr H disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note that Mr H has since raised a wider concern around a number of payments that 
he has realised were as a result of a scam which includes the payment of €800 Mr H made 
on 18 February 2021. 
Mr Hs concerns about all the payments he made as a result of the scam and whether 
anything more could have been done to prevent those losses is being looked at separately. 
And our Investigator is keeping Mr H up to date on that matter. 
For clarity  this complaint focuses solely on Mr H's concerns that Santander didnt do
enough when he contacted it to stop the international payment of €800 he made on 
18 February 2021. This was the complaint that Mr H initially referred to our service and is 
what I have considered here.
Having reviewed the information provided, I dont think Santander need to do anything more 
and its offer of £50 as compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
At this point I would like to say that I can certainly understand Mr Hs frustrations with what 
happened. Shortly after making the payment he realised that he may have been the victim of 
a scam  and upon seeing that the payment was still pending in his account  he tried 
everything he could do to stop it.
Unfortunately, and what wasnt explained clearly to Mr H when he called, was the limitations 
of what could potentially be done to stop a payment once it has been made. And as the 
payment was showing as pending on Mr Hs statement it led to confusion and I can see why 
it gave Mr H hope that the payment could be stopped.
Santander has provided evidence to show that Mr H made the payment at 2:49pm on 
18 February 2021, and the evidence also shows that Santanders international team viewed 
and released the payment shortly after at 3:11pm. This means the amount was debited from 
Mr Hs account at that time.
Santander has also explained that once a payment is released (so in this case at 15:11pm), 
it cant then stop the payment, as it has already gone through. Santander has also advised 
why the payment was still showing as pending and not as complete on the statement straight 
away  with the reason being that the beneficiary bank could reject the payment. Where a 
payment is rejected by a beneficiary bank the payment then gets returned.
What this means for Mr H and the international payment he made
So, and importantly in this case, by the time Mr H called to try and stop the payment, it had 
already been processed by Santander and it had been routed to the beneficiary account in 
France and the amount had also been debited from Mr Hs account. This means that despite 
Mr H calling Santander several hours after, it wouldnt have been able to stop the payment  
it had already been processed and released. As I say, I can certainly understand Mr Hs frustrations  I can see that he tried to do 
everything he could to stop the payment as soon as he thought it may not have been 
legitimate. From listening to the initial call the adviser had with Mr H on the evening of 
18 February 2021, while I do think the adviser tried to do everything they could for Mr H and 
try and see what could be done to stop the payment, ultimately the adviser should have 
been able to clearly explain the process regarding payments and any next steps. 
To my mind Santander should have been able to tell Mr H that the payment had already 
been cleared and processed and despite showing as pending on his statement it had been 
debited and that the payment would only be returned if the beneficiary bank rejected the 
payment. It should have then been able to explain that the next step if the beneficiary bank 
didnt reject the payment was to attempt to recall the payment and what that process 
involved. I think Mr H would have had a greater understanding at the time  whereas he 
came away with an expectation that the payment wouldnt leave his account as it was 
showing as pending still. And for that reason I think Santanders offer of compensation for 
the lack of clear communication is fair.
Overall, the payment Mr H made  had already been processed. And Santander, despite 
Mr H calling as soon as he found out that it wasnt legitimate, wouldnt have been able to 
stop it. As the payment had already been processed all Santander could then do was 
attempt to recall the payment from the beneficiary bank which Santander advised was 
declined by the beneficiary bank meaning it was unsuccessful and no funds could be 
recovered by Santander and returned to Mr H.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc has already 
paid £50 compensation for the failure to provide Mr H with clear information and I think this 
offer is fair in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman