DRN-3497320
The complaint
Mrs H complains that St Andrews Insurance Limited (St Andrews) declined a claim under 
her household insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H has a home insurance policy with St Andrews including cover for her contents and 
valuables.
Mrs H believes that someone stole a lockbox containing jewellery and documents from the 
attic of her home in October 2018. Mrs H has told this service she believes she knows who 
the thief was and the date of the theft. She says she knows this because only one person 
was allowed into the attic on one occasion over the course of a few years.
At some point Mrs H became aware that these items had been taken. She didnt report it to 
the police straight away, and contacted them in May 2020 to report the theft. 
The police investigated the report but Mrs H decided to not co-operate with them. She says 
she did this because of illness in her family and the covid lockdowns. 
Because Mrs H stopped the police from investigating, they werent able to gather evidence 
about how the theft had happened or who may have carried it out. In the end, Mrs H decided 
to not supply the police with details of the suspected offender and, as they were unable to 
access the property to investigate it, the police closed their file.
Mrs H then made a claim from St Andrews in March 2021 for the theft of her items. St 
Andrews declined the claim. It said Mrs H hadnt co-operated with the police and there was 
no proof that a crime had taken place. It also pointed out that there were various 
discrepancies in the dates of events Mrs H had provided.
As St Andrews had declined her claim, Mrs H complained. St Andrews maintained its 
position, saying that Mrs H hadnt provided enough evidence or substantiation to validate her 
claim. 
Mrs H remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. He referred to the terms and conditions of St 
Andrews policy including:
Claims conditions  Reporting a claim
If you or your family are the victim of theft tell the police immediately upon 
discovery and ask for a police reference number. You should then contact us as soon 
as possible.
And
Making a claim:
You are required to provide us with any reasonable assistance and evidence that 
may be required concerning the cause and value of any claim.
He said this means Mrs H needed to assist the police to evidence the fact that a theft had 
taken place. Because she hadnt done this, no evidence could be provided to St Andrews 
and so he thought St Andrews had acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim.
Mrs H didnt agree with the view. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Mrs Hs personal circumstances with illness in her family during a very 
trying time under covid lockdown rules. Mrs H has told this service she has held home 
insurance for many years and provides assurance that her claim is genuine and valid.
But its the role of this service to examine St Andrews actions and decide whether it acted 
fairly and responsibly when it was dealing with Mrs Hs claim. And in this case I think it did, 
so Im not going to uphold this complaint. I do appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs H, 
so I will explain why.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to reasonably 
demonstrate the claim is one covered by the policy. If the insurer wishes to rely on an 
exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion more than likely applies.
In Mrs Hs case I dont think shes done enough to show that her claim was one that should 
be covered by her policy. I say this because, from the information I have, there seems to be 
uncertainty about when the items were originally taken. Also, once the items were missed, I 
understand that Mrs H didnt contact the police for some time  a period of perhaps a few 
months. Once the theft was reported to the police, I can see that Mrs H didnt co-operate 
fully with them. This included not telling the police who she suspected stole her items, which 
is information I can see has been provided to this service and to St Andrews.
I know that Mrs H says she had good reasons for these delays and non-cooperation, but I 
think Mrs H should understand that St Andrews must be able to assure itself that a claim is 
genuine and valid. It does this by using terms and conditions in its policy wording such as 
those mentioned above. And I can see that Mrs H, for whatever reason, chose to not follow 
those terms and conditions during her claim. This includes delaying notifying St Andrews 
and not assisting the police in order that they might have been able to gather evidence to 
prove a crime took place.
Because Mrs H chose to not comply with the terms and conditions of St Andrews policy, I 
cannot say that St Andrews have acted unfairly by declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 Richard Sowden
Ombudsman