DRN-4156125
The complaint
P, a limited company, has complained about the way Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
settled its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic and about the way it handled the claim. 
What happened
P runs restaurants and wine bars. It had a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox 
covering it for losses up to a limit of £100,000. Before the policy was taken out, P told Hiscox 
its turnover was £2.2 million a year. Amongst other things the policy covered P for losses 
caused if it were unable to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
In March 2020, P made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after its 
business was impacted by the pandemic during the first lockdown restrictions. In early April, 
Hiscox declined the claim. It said the loss wasnt covered by Ps policy.
That same month the Financial Conduct Authority pursued a business interruption insurance 
test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including 
different types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The 
Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021 (The Financial Conduct Authority 
& Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1). 
In February 2021, following the outcome of the test case, Hiscox invited P to resubmit its 
claim. In April, Hiscox asked P to send it some financial information which it did the same 
day. More information was requested and provided.
In June 2021 Hiscox accepted the claim and instructed a firm of accountants to work out Ps 
loss. On 16 June 2021 the accountant told P it had completed its review and P should 
receive a settlement offer shortly. The first offer was £51,607.
After P pointed out an error in the settlement calculation, Hiscox increased the offer to 
£59,274 to settle the claim. Following representations by P, Hiscox increased its offer to 
£88,728 and later to £90,136 on 17 August 2021. Hiscox calculated that P had made a loss 
of £122,244. It thought P was under-insured. So, it said it would only pay 73.7% of the loss 
which came to £90,136. Payment was made in September 2021.
In August 2021 P complained to Hiscox about the way it had calculated its loss, the time 
taken to deal with the claim and the level of service it had received. P argued that there 
should be no deduction for under-insurance and Hiscox should instead pay up to the policy 
limit of £100,000.
Hiscox issued a final response on 28 March 2022. It apologised for errors on its part in 
calculating earlier settlement offers but said the approach taken for the final settlement offer 
was correct. It said it would pay 8% interest of £8,393.22 on the settlement and 
compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
P brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision setting out why I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when settling the claim. 
When P first took the policy out in 2018, it requested business interruption cover of 
£1,136,000 on a gross profit basis. When the policy was renewed in 2019, no instruction or 
request to change the amount of cover was made. However, the policy schedule stated P 
was insured on a loss of income rather than gross profit basis. This change came to light 
during the course of the claim and was thought to be a clerical error on the part of Hiscox or 
its agent. Hiscox agreed that the 2019 renewal should have been on the basis of P being 
covered for gross profit of £1,136,000 and dealt with the claim on that basis.
In connection with its public liability cover P told Hiscox its turnover was £2,200,000. Its 
worth noting that turnover isnt the same as gross profit. In broad terms, turnover is the total 
amount of business income during a set period of time. While in Ps policy the term Gross 
Profit is defined as:
The difference between the sum of your income, closing stock and work in progress and 
the sum of your opening stock, work in progress and uninsured working expenses.
Hiscox estimated based on Ps accounts that P should have insured for gross profit of 
£1,540,665. P appears to have accepted Hiscoxs calculation. If P had insured for gross 
profit of £2,200,000, it would have been paying for considerably more cover than it needed. I 
dont see any reason why P would have done that. So, I think Hiscox was correct to work on 
the basis that P wanted cover for gross profit of £1,136,000.
Hiscox has said that P was underinsured as the sum insured for gross profit was less than 
the true amount of gross profit. Because of this Hiscox applied the average clause in the 
policy which said:
If the annualised amount insured is less than 85% of your actual income, or your gross 
profit if applicable, during the 12 months immediately preceding the date of the insured 
damage, insured failure or restriction, the amount we pay will be reduced in the same 
proportion as the under insurance.
I have considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Hiscox to apply the average clause. 
In doing so, Ill take into account the relevant law as well as what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Ps policy is a commercial one. So the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) sets out some of the 
relevant law. When considering a complaint where under-insurance is alleged, before 
considering the policy terms, I must first consider the Act. Under the Act a commercial 
customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil this 
duty, the Act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know or ought to 
know that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and if so, on what terms. If it is found that the customer didnt fulfil this duty, then in order to 
say there has been a qualifying breach under the Act the insurer needs to show that it would 
either not have offered the policy at all or offered it on different terms. It is clear that Ps 
gross profit was actually much more than the sum insured. As the sum insured wasnt 
adequate, I dont think P made a fair presentation of the risk. Hiscox has confirmed that if P had made a fair presentation of the risk, it would have 
charged £862.77 for business interruption cover as opposed to £636.16. As Hiscox would 
have done something different, P has made what is referred to in the Act as a qualifying 
breach. Hiscox has accepted that P didnt deliberately or recklessly fail to make a fair 
presentation of the risk. That means under the Act Hiscox would be entitled to reduce Ps 
claim proportionately to the amount it had underpaid on the premium. This would mean 
Hiscox would pay 73.7% of the claim. 
The same percentage (73.7%) is reached by the way Hiscox interpreted the average clause 
in the policy as it divided the sum insured by Ps gross profit for the period 1 March 2019 to 
29 February 2020.
P thought that instead Hiscox should have used gross profit for the period from 21 March 
2019 to 20 March 2020 in line with the policy wording. This would benefit P as there was a 
downturn in Ps gross profits due to Covid-19 before the restrictions came into force, thus 
reducing or eliminating the amount of under insurance and so increasing the claim 
settlement.
It doesnt seem fair to me to allow a policyholder to increase the amount they receive under 
the indemnity in a policy by allowing their gross profit to reflect circumstances which are 
connected with the insured peril. In this case that would mean P being able to claim a higher 
percentage of its losses arising when it was forced to close its premises due to lockdown 
restrictions because of a downturn in trading immediately before the first lockdown due to 
Covid-19 generally. I think the way Hiscox has interpreted the average clause is fair and puts 
P in the same position it would have been under the Act. So I am not going to require Hiscox 
to increase the amount it paid on the claim.
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. When P first contacted Hiscox with an 
enquiry about cover, it was told incorrectly that there was no cover under the policy. After the 
judgment of the Supreme Court in the test case P lodged the claim again. When information 
was requested from P, it responded promptly. But between April and August 2021, P had to 
chase Hiscox on many occasions for progress on the claim. I do think Hiscox should have 
provided its final decision regarding the claim sooner and I can see that it must have been 
inconvenient for P to have to keep chasing Hiscox, point out mistakes and for it to wait so 
long for a final decision. As P is a limited company, I cant award it compensation for trouble 
and upset. However, overall I think compensation of £750 and the interest that has been 
paid on the settlement is fair and reasonable to compensate P for the inconvenience caused 
by this delay. 
In summary P made the following points in response:
It was Hiscoxs fault that P was under-insured. There was no reason why P would 
have deliberately chosen to under-insure. It didnt know where the figure for gross 
profit of £1,136,000 had come from.
The settlement offer of £90,136 included interest and compensation.
I had referred to the calculation of Ps gross profit for the period from 21 March 2019 
to 20 March 2020 being in line with the policy wording. That being the case, I 
should not have found that Hiscox acted fairly in looking at Ps gross profit from 1 
March 2019 to 29 February 2020.
Compensation of £750 was inadequate in view of the hours of work it had taken P to 
persuade Hiscox to increase its settlement.Our investigator checked with Hiscox. They said theyd paid the claim settlement of 
£90,136 in August 2021. Theyd paid £750 compensation and interest of £8,393 on 29 
March 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained in my provisional findings, P had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to Hiscox. That included telling Hiscox what its gross profit was. It was in a better position to 
know this than Hiscox. So I dont think it was Hiscoxs fault that P was under-insured.
Ive looked at the offer letter sent by Hiscox in August 2021 setting out a breakdown of the 
final offer. It calculated Ps loss of gross profit at £122,244 and paid 73.7% of that, being 
£90,136. If for some reason P didnt receive the compensation of £750 and interest of 
£8,393 Hiscox paid separately in March 2022, P should raise this with Hiscox. 
In my provisional findings when discussing the period over which Ps gross profit should be 
calculated, I was referring to Ps interpretation of the policy wording when I said P thought 
that instead Hiscox should have used gross profit for the period from 21 March 2019 to 20 
March 2020 in line with the policy wording. I didnt mean to imply that I agreed with Ps 
interpretation of the policy wording. As explained above, I think the way Hiscox has 
interpreted the average clause is fair and puts P in the same position it would have been 
under the Act. 
I appreciate that compensation of £750 doesnt reimburse P at a professional hourly rate for 
time spent in getting Hiscox to increase the claim settlement. But an award of this amount is 
in line with what this service typically considers fair where a financial businesss mistakes 
have caused significant inconvenience that needed a lot of extra effort to resolve. 
All in all, although I have given careful consideration to the points made by P, I am not 
persuaded to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman