DRN-2698270
The complaint
Mr V is complaining about the way Complete Cover Group Ltd handled the renewal of his 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V took out a car insurance policy through Complete Cover  a broker. In November 2018 
Complete Cover wrote to Mr V inviting him to renew the policy. Mr V says he wasnt happy 
with the renewal premium, so didnt respond to the invitation and the policy lapsed. He later 
used an online comparison website to look for a new policy, but he says Complete Cover 
provided the most competitive quote. So he looked to take out that policy.
Mr V then had a number of telephone conversations with Complete Cover. Complete Cover 
said it wasnt willing to honour the online quote because it said that included an introductory 
discount, but it said it had to treat it as a renewal  given Mr V had been insured through it 
the year before. It also said he hadnt disclosed an SP50 during the online application. 
Mr V didnt agree he needed to disclose the SP50. He said the offence was considered 
lapsed by the DVLA as it was more than three years old. But Complete Cover said he was 
asked to disclose any motoring offences hed had in the last five years as it said thats what 
the insurer wanted to know.
In August 2019 it became apparent the policy had been set up against the wrong address. 
Complete Cover changed the address on the policy which resulted in a refund of around 
£75. Mr V was unhappy with the way the policy was being handled so he asked Complete 
Cover to cancel it, which it did. It said he still owed £535.01 on the finance agreement 
following the cancellation as there was no refund of premium due.
Mr V complained to Complete Cover about the way it handled the renewal of the policy and 
the cancellation. In particular he raised the following points:
1. Hes unhappy Complete Cover wouldnt allow him to use the introductory discount;
2. Complete Cover used the incorrect address to rate the policy which caused him to pay 
more than he should have done for the policy;
3. He doesnt think he should have had to disclose the SP50 and he was unhappy with the 
amount this increased his premium by;
4. He didnt think the premium refund hed received was correct as he said when hed 
looked online at how much the different address generally affected the premium, he 
thought it would have affected the premium by a lot more;
5. He says Complete Cover didnt explain to him that he was entering into a credit 
agreement to pay for the annual premium and how much it would cost to pay it in 
monthly instalments;
6. He was unhappy with the way Complete Covers call handlers generally spoke with him 
on the telephone.
Complete Cover partially upheld the complaint. It acknowledged it had initially given the 
insurer the wrong address when arranging the renewal of the policy. And it said it would pay 
a further £25 in compensation for this to increase the refund being offered to £100. But it 
didnt uphold the other aspects of Mr Vs complaint. It said, as a broker, it didnt have any 
control over how an insurer calculates the annual premium. And it said Mr V would need to 
raise any concerns he had with the way the premium was calculated or refunds provided 
with the insurer directly.
Complete Cover thought its call handlers handled the calls fairly when Mr V called to discuss 
the renewal of the policy. It acknowledged Mr V was unhappy with what he was being told, 
but it didnt think the call handlers had treated him unfairly. It also acknowledged Mr V didnt 
agree he had to disclose the SP50. But it said the online application asked him to disclose 
any offences hed had in the last five years. So it maintained the call handlers hadnt given 
him incorrect information. It said the call handlers explained this to Mr V in full at the time 
and it was satisfied they gave him sufficient information to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the insurance policy or not.
Complete Cover was also satisfied it explained to Mr V he was taking out a finance 
agreement to fund the insurance policy. It said the call handler explained who the finance 
provider was and also what the interest rate being applied would be.
Mr V didnt agree with Complete Covers response, so referred his complaint to this service. 
Since then, Complete Cover advised that the premium refund given hadnt been calculated 
correctly and it said Mr V was entitled to a further refund of £178.53.
I issued a provisional decision where I said that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. And I 
said the following:
I should first set out that Im only considering Complete Covers actions in this complaint. 
Mr Vs complaint about the insurer is being considered in a separate complaint.
Mr V has raised a number of complaint points about the way Complete Cover has handled 
his policies. Ive considered everything Mr V has said and provided, but Ive not commented 
on every point hes raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
I think there are two key issues for me to consider here:
1. The renewal of the contract; and
2. Complete Covers handling of the policys cancellation.
Renewal of the contract
I should first set out that, as a broker, Complete Covers responsibility was to act on Mr Vs 
behalf to ensure the insurer had all the information it required to assess the risk it was being 
asked to insure. It didnt decide how to assess the level of risk or set the annual premium  
that was the responsibility of the insurer.
Mr V doesnt think its fair that he had to disclose the SP50 because the DVLA considered it 
spent. But the insurer did consider it relevant to its risk, so Complete Cover acted fairly in 
explaining to Mr V it was something he needed to disclose.
Prior to renewing the policy, Mr V carried out an online application and Complete Cover used 
the information he provided on this application to gather all the information the insurer said it 
needed. Complete Cover hasnt been able to provide a copy of the online application Mr V 
completed, but from experience I think its most likely he was asked to disclose any fixed 
penalties hed incurred in the last five years. But, even if it didnt ask this, he hasnt lost out because Complete Cover subsequently explained to him he needed to disclose the SP50 
and he did so.
So Im satisfied Mr V was asked to disclose all motoring offences hed received in the last 
five years. And he was advised this included unspent offences. So, Mr V was asked to 
disclose the SP50 and I cant say Complete Cover treated him unfairly in this respect. 
Ultimately Mr V is unhappy the insurer requires him to disclose driving offences from more 
than three years ago, but this isnt something Complete Cover can control. I also note Mr V 
is unhappy with the price increase after the SP50 was applied. But he would need to raise 
both of these directly with the insurer if he wants to take it further.
I also note Mr V is unhappy Complete Cover removed the introductory discount it was 
initially offering as part of the online application. But I dont think Complete Cover acted 
unreasonably in doing so. The discount is offered for new customers, but Mr V wasnt a new 
customer of Complete Cover  given it had arranged his insurance policy the year before. So 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Complete Cover to treat the policy as a renewal.
Ultimately Mr V didnt have to accept the policy it had arranged and he could have looked 
elsewhere for a more suitable policy.
Ive listened to the telephone calls Mr V had with Complete Cover when arranging the 
renewal of the policy and Im satisfied the call handlers treated him fairly at all times. I 
appreciate Mr V was unhappy with what they were telling him, but Im satisfied they 
remained professional throughout.
Ive also thought about Mr Vs complaint that he wasnt told he was taking out a finance 
agreement. Its common industry practice that a consumer will enter into a finance 
agreement to pay an insurance policy monthly. How this works is that Mr V entered into a 
running account credit agreement with a finance provider. The finance provider paid the 
annual premium to the insurer and Mr V then repays the finance provider  plus interest in 
line with the terms of the finance agreement.
As the credit broker, Complete Cover needed to ensure Mr V had enough information to 
make an informed choice about what his options were. In particular, Ive thought about the 
regulatory guidelines set out in CONC 4.2.5. So I think it needed to explain he was entering 
into a finance agreement, the applicable rate of interest (APR), how much extra it would cost 
to pay monthly and how much it would cost to pay for the policy up-front.
Ive listened to the telephone calls Mr V had with Complete Cover and I can see it explained 
he was entering into a finance agreement, and that the APR was 23.5%. I think the call 
handler could have been clearer in explaining the difference between paying monthly or 
upfront. But I think its clear Mr V wanted to pay monthly and I think he would have known 
there was a cost to do so. So I dont think hes lost out as a result of this as Im satisfied he 
would have still taken out the finance agreement if Complete Cover had told him everything 
it should have done.
Cancellation of the policy
In August 2019 it became apparent Complete Cover had given the insurer Mr Vs old 
address to rate the policy. After this was changed, Mr V was given a premium refund of £75, 
following which Mr V complained about the way Complete Cover had handled the policy and 
asked to cancel it. Complete Cover acknowledged it made an error in using the incorrect 
address and it paid him £25 in compensation for this. It also waived the £75 cancellation fee. 
But it told Mr V he still owed £535.01 on the finance agreement hed taken out to pay for the 
annual premium.Its since transpired this premium refund was calculated incorrectly and Mr V should have 
received a further refund of £178.53. However this refund would have been calculated by the 
insurer. So I cant hold Complete Cover responsible for the incorrect calculation. However, it 
did set up the policy incorrectly and this has caused Mr V some distress and inconvenience. 
That said, it seems to me Complete Cover accepted its mistake as soon as it came to light 
and quickly took steps to look to put things right and it was Mr Vs choice to cancel the 
policy.
While I accept part of Mr Vs unhappiness with Complete Covers actions is down to using 
the incorrect address, it seems hes primarily unhappy with the way Complete Cover 
renewed the policy. And, as I said above, I dont think it acted unreasonably here. But I 
accept Complete Cover did cause Mr V some avoidable distress and inconvenience in using 
the wrong address. However, it has paid him £25 in compensation and its also waived the 
£75 cancellation charge it was entitled to charge when Mr V asked to cancel the policy. So 
Mr V has, in effect, already received £100 in compensation. This is in line with what I would 
have awarded, so I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to the one I reached. So I still think the way Complete Cover has looked to 
resolve this complaint is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think that Complete Cover Group Ltds offer of £25 in 
compensation and to waive the £75 cancellation charge is fair compensation for any unfair 
distress and inconvenience its caused Mr V. And I dont intend to award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman