DRN-3949644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr and Mrs P claimed against their RSA home insurance for a blocked waste 
pipe. Ill call that the first blockage. The claim was declined. This decision doesnt consider 
that claim outcome  although it does refer to the claims circumstances. 
 
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs P experienced a second blockage to a waste pipe. They had 
their own engineer clear it. They made a second claim, under the accidental damage (AD) 
cover provided by their insurance, for reimbursement of the cost.  
RSA declined the claim. That outcome is the subject of this decision. RSA said the blockage 
was due to misuse of the plumbing system, rather than an insurable event like AD. It also 
added their policy doesnt cover maintenance or wear and tear  explaining the policy 
doesnt cover replacement of drains and pipes at the end of their life.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied so came to this service. They want RSA to reimburse them 
the cost of clearing the blockage  about £655. 
In December 2022 our investigator gave his opinion. He recommended RSA pay the claim in 
line with remaining terms of the policy. He felt the cause of the second blockage was most 
likely accidental damage (AD), which is covered by the policy terms. He said RSA hadnt 
provided enough evidence to persuade him it would be fair for it to rely on the wear and tear 
exclusion to refuse the claim. Mr and Mrs P accepted that outcome, but RSA didnt. So the 
complaint was passed to me. 
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require 
RSA to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim or to do anything differently. The reasoning from it forms 
part of this final decision, so Ive copied it in below. 
I also invited Mr and Mrs P and RSA to provide anything they would like me to consider 
before issuing a final decision. RSA didnt respond. Mr and Mrs P were disappointed with my 
findings. They provided a written response. Ive considered their points and responded to 
those I feel it necessary to. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I havent considered if the claim could be fairly considered as meeting the AD terms 
of the policy. Thats because even if I did it wouldnt make a difference to the 
outcome  as I would feel it fair for RSA to rely on the wear and tear exclusion to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
This is the relevant exclusion  
Wear and tear  Any loss, damage, liability cost or expense of any kind 
directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, 
corrosion, rusting 
In RSAs opinion the second blockage resulted from corrosion of the cast iron waste 
pipework. Its referred to various engineers comments from the two blockages to 
support its position.
In an email, dated April 21. Mr P conveys the experience and opinion of the engineer 
that dealt with the first blockage. The engineer really struggled to clear a path for the 
waste as the cast iron pipe was severely rusted internally. He said it could quickly 
rust up again. So he wouldnt provide a guarantee for the work. He suggested the 
pipework should be replaced. 
The same recommendation, to replace all cast iron pipework, was given by the 
engineer that dealt with the second blockage. So it seems to be accepted by those 
experts that have inspected the waste pipe that its corroded and in need of 
replacement. 
The second blockage, and subject of this complaint, happened about six months or 
so later. As far as Im aware it was in cast iron waste pipework. Although its not clear 
if both blockages occurred in a similar locality. 
I note that the items found within the blockage include hair grips and ties. And Ive 
considered everything Mr and Mrs P have said. But, based on the various engineers 
comments and the timescale, it seems likely to me the second blockage (and so the 
damage) itself resulted from corrosion of the pipework. So I currently intend to find it 
fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. That means unless Im 
provided with something to change my mind, I wont be requiring it to settle the claim. 
Finally I accept RSA wasnt very clear, initially, about relying on the exclusion to 
decline the claim. It referred to misuse of the plumbing and other reasons. However, 
Im satisfied it did have the corrosion issue and exclusion in mind. Unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs P I currently feel its fair for it to use it to decline their claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P said their evidence supports the items found in the pipe causing the blockage 
 not corrosion. I accept there were various objects in the pipe  but RSAs position is that 
the condition (ie corroded) of the pipe allowed them to build up. Based on the available 
evidence Im persuaded thats most likely what happened. So for me the main or dominant 
cause of damage is corrosion, rather than AD.   
Mr and Mrs Ps response focused on their feeling that RSA changed its reason for declining 
the claim. They feel an insurer shouldnt be allowed to do so. In its final response letter of May 2022 UKI refers to misuse as a reason for declining the 
claim. But it also points out the policy doesnt cover maintenance or wear and tear. In that 
letter it also raised the decline of the first blockage claim  with reference to corroded 
pipework. I feel that was RSA referring, as a further reason for decline, to the wear and tear 
exclusion I set out in my provisional decision. In his initial assessment our investigator 
considered the insurers application of the exclusion. So he too seemed to feel RSA had 
referred to it as a decline reason.  
So I havent, as Mr P feels, introduced a claim decline reason on behalf of RSA. In my 
experience insurers sometimes fail to communicate their position clearly in correspondence 
with policyholders. In my opinion, thats whats happened here.
I understand its frustrating for Mr and Mrs P, but I still feel RSA declined the claim fairly and 
in line with the terms of their policy  by relying on the exclusion. So Im not going to require 
it to settle the claim or to do anything differently.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to settle 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman