DRN-2988420
The complaint
Mr W complains that the loan he had from 1Plus1 Loans Limited was unaffordable to him.
  
What happened
Mr W took out a guarantor loan with 1Plus1 Loans on 19 September 2017. He borrowed 
£3,000 and was due to repay £108.25 monthly for 60 months. The loan was settled on 
11 April 2019.
Mr W says that 1Plus1 Loans didnt carry out enough affordability checks when he applied 
for the loan.
1Plus1 Loans says it asked Mr W about his income and verified it electronically. It says Mr W 
also provided information about his expenditure which seemed reasonable relative to 
statistical averages. 1Plus1Loans said the loan was for debt consolidation, there was 
nothing of concern in Mr Ws credit file and the checks showed the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied 1Plus1 
Loanss checks went far enough because Mr W was showing signs he was struggling with 
his existing commitments. He found that proportionate checks were likely to have found that 
Mr W had additional borrowing that wasnt included in 1Plus1 Loanss affordability 
calculation. He recommended that 1Plus1 Loans should deduct any payments Mr W made 
from the principal and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. He said it should also 
ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr Ws credit file.
1Plus1 Loans responded to say, in summary that:
It accounted for all the commitments on his credit file in its affordability calculation;
o1Plus1Loans acknowledged that Mr W had additional lending at the time, but 
it said that, as its checks did not reveal these loans, they should not be 
included in the assessment;
Mr W had a good repayment record on the loan;
That it verified Mr Ws income through his credit record and there is no requirement 
for lenders to obtain bank statements;
It did not consider the deterioration of Mr Ws financial circumstances after the loan to 
be relevant to the lending decision;
1Plus1 Loans is in the sub-prime sector and therefore customers may not have a 
good credit history.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Miss L. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that 1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ws loan application to satisfy itself that hed be able to sustainably repay it? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did 1Plus1 Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen and listened to evidence to show 1Plus1 Loans asked about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances, checked his credit file and verified his income. However, based on the 
information it received Im not satisfied that the checks carried out by 1Plus1 Loans went far 
enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 60 months and 1Plus1 Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Based on what Mr W said, he was already committed to spending almost 40% of his 
income on credit;
The evidence I have seen from 1Plus1Loanss credit check shows a defaulted 
communications account from less than ten months earlier;
Mr W said he currently had two short-term loans.
I accept 1Plus1 Loans said it accounted for all the credit accounts shown on the check it 
carried out for Mr W, but I think the existence of two short-term loans should have prompted 
it to find out whether there were other loans that may not yet be showing on his credit report. 
Mr W was already heavily committed to credit repayments considering his income, and, 
although I acknowledge he said the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation, I dont find 
1Plus1 Loans had enough information to make a fair lending decision.
Although there is no requirement to obtain bank statements, I consider the information 
1Plus1 Loans had about his credit and his relatively recent default should have prompted it 
to fully understand Mr Ws financial circumstances, including verifying the information hed 
provided about his expenditure.
Mr W has been asked to provide his bank statements from the time as one way of verifying 
the information hed provided, but these have not yet been received. However, a detailed 
credit report from February 2020 shows the following information for September 2017:
The loan for which 1Plus1 Loans had seen repayments of £256 had actually been 
closed before Mr Ws loan application and replaced with a higher one. This made his 
repayments to that loan provider £335, rather than £256. (Mr W had actually said his 
repayments were about £300 on the call I listened to.)
Another loan for which the repayments were £48 per month;
Two further short-term loans taken out the week before the 1Plus1 Loan with 
combined repayments of over £200;
An overdraft of £1,751;
An additional defaulted account from November 2014;
A regular reliance on short-term lending both before and during the 1Plus1Loan.I accept that Mr W says he was going to use the new loan to repay his short-term loans and 
some of his credit cards, but the £3,000 was not enough to fully pay off these new loans as 
well. Indeed, at the time he appeared to be spending around £1,000 per month on credit 
repayments. As 1Plus1 Loans calculated his other expenditure to be over £900, I find a 
further loan was unaffordable to Mr W, given his income was £1,960. Even if he did pay off 
some of his existing credit with the loan, the repayment commitment going forward made the 
new loan unsustainable for him. Indeed, it appears that Mr Ws three credit cards defaulted 
in 2018.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mr W and 1Plus1 Loans did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman