DRN-2412121
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc did not carry out affordability checks correctly 
when her credit card was opened.
Mrs B is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to any submissions or comments being made by her directly.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs B applied for a Sainsburys credit card and her application was successful. In 
2018 Mrs B became unemployed and was unable to keep up with payments on her credit 
arrangements. 
In 2019, Mrs B complained to Sainburys that as she has a medical condition which causes a 
spending addiction it shouldnt have lent to her when it did. She says she was never asked 
about the affordability of the card before Sainsburys gave it to her.
Sainsburys say they considered the information on the application form and carried out 
checks which confirmed the credit card was affordable. They werent aware of any difficulties 
Mrs B was having until 2018 when they received contact from a debt management company 
(DMC). They worked with the DMC and agreed payment plans. So Sainburys didnt think 
they had acted wrongly. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to us where our investigator took the view that Mrs B has been 
treated fairly. They said that Sainsburys used all of the information available to them at the 
time of the application and Mrs Bs was able to make payments to the account for a number 
of years before she became unemployed. On that basis Sainsburys was entitled to lend to 
Mrs B and did so fairly.
Mrs B disagreed and asked how credit card companies can keep giving credit when it is 
clear that the totality of her lending is well in excess of her annual income, so the complaint 
has been referred to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A business like Sainsburys is entitled to decide who to lend to and, if its wiling to lend, how 
much and on what terms. What Sainsburys needs to have done before lending to Mrs B, is 
to have made fair and reasonable checks to see whether the credit card was affordable for 
Mrs B.
Sainsburys have provided the signed application for the card, where Mrs B confirmed that 
her annual income was £30,000. They then say they considered this information alongside 
credit checks to have looked at whether she could afford the card. The credit checks would 
enable them to see payments made to other providers were being made, the monthly 
payment and if it was paid on time. Having made these checks  Sainburys were satisfied 
Mrs B could afford the card even if the total lending across all unsecured debt was over Mrs 
Bs annual income.
The circumstances here would suggest this was a fair assessment. I say this as Mrs B was 
able to afford repayments to the card for nearly four years. Thats a long time to have been 
able to make payments if it wasnt affordable. If there was any reason that Mrs B was 
struggling to make the payments, the account notes Sainburys have provided us dont show 
that there was any contact with them where she told them about any issues until 2018.
It was only at this point, when Mrs B became unemployed, that the repayments appeared to 
become unaffordable. But I dont think this would have been foreseeable for Sainburys 
when Mrs B first applied for the card in 2014. At the point Sainsburys heard from the DMC 
that Mrs B was using - they agreed repayment plans and suspended interest and charges. 
They also refunded interest and charges that were applied in between plans too. I think 
thats a positive and sympathetic thing to have done to help Mrs B with her difficulties  
which is what Id expect to see of Sainsburys here.
Mrs B has mentioned her condition in terms of her spending  but again, I dont see that 
Sainsburys could have been aware of this prior to her telling them about this. She was 
maintaining the account in line with the terms and applicable limits for a number of years. 
Even if she was spending a lot, maintaining the account as she did would have meant that it 
looked to Sainsburys that she could manage to repay anything she was borrowing and 
spending on the card. In any event, Mrs B told Sainsburys about her condition in 2019 and 
theyve continued to work with her which is what Id expect.
I have taken into account the point raised by Mrs Bs representative of how Sainsburys and 
other organisations kept giving credit when it was in excess of her annual income. But with 
this complaint I have to consider what is reasonable for Sainsburys to have known and, for 
the reasons Ive already given, I believe that they took into consideration the existing 
borrowing with other providers at the time of the application. Sainsburys still felt it was 
affordable for Mrs B and I think that was a decision it reached fairly in the circumstances
I understand Mrs B has difficult personal circumstances now and I'm sorry to hear about how 
these have affected her. But in overall here, I think Sainsburys has treated Mrs B fairly.
My final decision
Based on my findings above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman