DRN-4106192
The complaint
Mr M complains British Gas Insurance Limited refused to carry out repairs under his 
Homecare insurance policy following a leak. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. Instead 
Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M held Homecare cover with British Gas, which included plumbing cover. The plumbing 
cover is intended to respond to occasional sudden and unexpected events, such as a 
leaking pipe, or a blocked sink. Its not intended to provide cover for all eventualities, such as 
the replacement of a failing plumbing system. 
In 2022, Mr M reported various leaks to British Gas which they repaired. And in June 2022, 
after a fourth visit, it was said a pipe burst at the next weakest point, and pipework needed 
replacing as leaks will continue to happen if not  as they did during 2022. Then, in 
November 2022, British Gas concluded the leaks stemmed from an inherent problem with Mr 
Ms plumbing system and that the entire run of pipes needed replacing. Mr M says British 
Gas caused the problem, but Im satisfied its most likely the result of an inherent plumbing 
system issue. I say this for the following reasons: 
British Gas attended various leaks, in different places. This number of leaks in a 
short time isnt normal and suggests a wider issue. 
There is no compelling evidence to suggest British Gas repairs led to further leaks, 
as Mr M suggests. 
Mr Ms own engineer concluded Pipe leaking from speedfit fitting. Pipe did not have 
any inserts and was on heating side. Have advised customer to get all pipework 
checked [my emphasis] as if they have not been installed correctly to manufacturers 
spec they will leak as they will need inserts installing. This suggests the engineer 
thought the problem might have been a system problem, rather than an isolated 
single leak/repair. 
Mr M called out another engineer due to the frequency of leaks. They went out to 
replace the entire run of pipes which Mr M says resolved the issues. It seems unlikely 
this is something Mr M would have agreed to (and paid for) unless he (and the 
second engineer) thought necessary. 
While Mr Ms property was only about 17 years old, that doesnt necessarily mean 
the plumbing system was durable to the point it could not start to fail at or around this 
time. 
Mr Ms complaint is that rather than insist he replaced the run of pipes (which wasnt covered 
by the policy) British Gas ought to have continued with repairs. I dont find British Gas could 
reasonably be expected to continue to respond to leaks indefinitely though. And I find once it 
became apparent British Gas couldnt complete a full, lasting, and effective repair under the 
policy, it was reasonable for them to excuse themselves from further involvement while Mr M 
undertook the necessary replacement work. 
The claim notes suggest the November 2022 leak wasnt the first instance of it being 
highlighted that the pipework needed to be replaced. British Gas say theyve attended 
approximately 70 jobs raised for Mr Ms property, mostly for pipe bursting issues. I note 
during the November 2022 visit, Mr M says British Gas told him another patch repair would 
only lead to further leaks, so I find British Gas conclusion that pipes required replacing was 
a fair and reasonable one. It follows I dont require British Gas to take any action here. 
Im aware Mr M is also concerned with the customer service he received from British Gas. I 
agree the service could have been better at times. For example, British Gas could have 
made it clearer, sooner, of the need for Mr M to replace the run of pipes. However, Im not 
persuaded the service was so poor, and the impact so great, that compensation is 
appropriate. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with British Gas  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman