DRN-4125809
The complaint
Miss P complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund her money 
she says she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss P says she is the victim of a romance scam.  She explains she developed a 
relationship with someone she met online, whom I will refer to as S in this decision.  Miss P 
says S deceived her into taking out two loans and making several payments to him.  One of 
these payments was made by way of international transfer, and the others via a 
cryptocurrency exchange which I will refer to as C in this decision.  Miss P says S told her he 
required the funds so he could use them to release a significant sum of money he had in a 
dormant bank account.  
The payments disputed  all authorised by Miss P  are as followed:
£2,654.73 + £9.50 fee (international transfer)  22 Jan 2021
£23,000 (payment transfer to C  in branch)  22 Jan 2021
£2,000 (payment transfer to C)  28 Jan 2021
£100 (payment transfer to C)  28 Jan 2021
£1,3000 (payment transfer to C)  23 Aug 2021
£1 (payment transfer to C)  23 Aug 2021
£1 (payment transfer to C)  10 Sep 2021
£5,000 (payment transfer to C)  10 Sep 2021
£6,000 (payment transfer to C)  10 Sep 2021
Miss P says when she discovered S had scammed her, she contacted Halifax asking it to 
refund her the money she lost.  As Halifax declined to do this, Miss P raised a complaint 
which she referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Miss P did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Miss P attempted to make a £23,000 payment to C, but Halifax blocked this and required her 
to attend a branch with identification so the payment could be processed.  This branch visit 
occurred on 22 April 2021.  Whilst in branch, Miss P spoke to Halifaxs fraud department 
over the telephone and was provided with some information about the risk of fraud.  
Consequently, Halifax processed Miss Ps payment to C for £23,000.
Miss Ps position, broadly, is that there were enough suspicions about the £23,000 payment 
to justify Halifax invoking the Banking Protocol to protect her from financial harm.  Halifax 
says that given the in-branch staff processed the payment, it is reasonable to assume they 
had no concerns that Miss P may have been at risk of financial harm at the time.
We do not have a record of the discussions which took place between Miss P, the in-branch 
staff or the fraud team over the telephone.  That said, I have considered a chat log which 
contains communications between Miss P and S.  Having done so, I take the view that the 
chat log provides a narrative about what transpired during Miss Ps in-branch visit on 22 April 
2021.  I say this because the chat log shows that Miss P and S discussed the visit in some 
detail.
Having reflected on the chat log, I can see why the in-branch staff processed Miss Ps 
£23,000 payment to C and did not invoke the Banking Protocol.
I say this because based on the chat log, it is clear to see that Miss P was determined to 
persuade Halifax to process the £23,000 payment to C.  For example, I can see from the log 
that Miss P formulated a lie with S to tell in-branch staff about why she wanted to make the 
payment.  She also spoke to how she would conduct herself in-branch to appear more 
convincing, and that she would be assertive with staff as it was her money she wanted to 
transfer.  Further, in the chat log, Miss P said that she had been interrogated in-branch for 
an hour and was questioned about whether a third party had asked her to make the 
payment.
Bearing the above in mind, I am persuaded that during Miss Ps in-branch visit, she was able 
to alleviate any concerns Halifax may have had about Miss P being at risk of financial harm.  
Thus, processing the £23,000 payment to C.
My view is supported by two telephone calls Miss P had with Halifax about her other 
attempted payments to C which were blocked.  The first call (16 April 2021) occurred before 
Miss Ps in-branch visit, whereby she told Halifax she did not want to continue with a 
£23,000 payment to C (the payment she eventually made in branch).  The second call (28 
April 2021) occurred after Miss Ps in-branch visit, whereby she asked Halifax to process a 
£2,000 payment to C.  In both calls, Miss P did not reveal the true reason behind the 
payments she wanted to make  despite Halifax providing Miss P with, to my mind, robust 
and effective scam warnings.  In my view, during the calls, Miss P came across as credible 
and assertive in her reasons for wanting to make the payments concerned; and did not show 
any reasonable signs of being a victim of a scam.Banks have to balance their duty to follow their customers payment instructions, with their 
duty to protect their customers from financial harm  the latter of which can include invoking 
the Banking Protocol in branch.  However, if the banks customer puts forward compelling 
and persuasive reasons as to why they want to make a payment which may put them at risk 
of financial harm  then this can seriously frustrate the banks attempts to protect their 
customer from such harm.  This is what, to my mind, has happened in Miss Ps case for the 
reasons I have set out above.
Save for the £23,000 payment which triggered Halifaxs systems, I do not find that any of the 
remaining payments in this case  relative to Miss Ps account activity  should have 
flagged; although I acknowledge one did on 28 April 2021, which I have dealt with above.  
Even if any of the remaining payments had flagged  I am not persuaded that an intervention 
by Halifax would have made a difference in the circumstances.  I say this because, on 
balance, I take the view that Miss P would have provided Halifax with the same account she 
did in branch and during her calls on 16 and 28 April 2021; assuring Halifax that all was well 
with the payments.
Therefore, taking all the above points together  I am satisfied that Halifax has not done 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.  So, I will not be asking it to do 
anything further in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman