DRN-3724651
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wont refund the money he lost 
in a scam.
What happened
Mr H says that in February 2021 he made two payments to place funds into an online trading 
account with a company Ill refer to as G. The payments were made by credit card and Mr H 
used a link to a payment gateway when he made them. The payments were for £250.26 and 
£1,814.81. Mr H had access to a portal to view his trading account. In April 2021 Mr H asked 
G if he could withdraw his funds. He expected to receive funds after 30 days, but this didnt 
happen, and Mr H says that G stopped responding to all correspondence.
At the beginning of June 2021 Mr H contacted Tesco to raise a chargeback. He noted that 
the payments went to two separate companies, neither of which were G. 
Tesco said that Mr H didnt have any dispute rights with Mastercard and couldnt bring a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But Tesco said that when Mr H raised 
the dispute it should have considered a scam claim and didnt. In recognition of this error, 
Tesco paid Mr H £50. 
Mr H is unhappy with Tescos response. He says he paid by credit card as he believed this 
method of payment offered protection in situations like the one he has found himself in, and 
if this wasnt the case, Tesco should have warned him. Mr H also thinks that Tesco owed 
him a duty of care to protect him from fraud and that it failed to provide any warnings. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
said that the first payment wasnt unusual but the second was and Mr H had called Tesco to 
authorise it. During this call, the fact that the payee name was different went unchallenged 
and Mr H wasnt provided with any warnings. As a result, the investigator said Tesco should 
refund this payment but deduct 30% of it to reflect the fact Mr H contributed to his loss and 
pay interest. But chargeback and S75 wouldnt be successful because Mr H received the 
service he expected  the purchase of cryptocurrency. 
Mr H said hed accept the investigators findings in an effort to resolve the case but later 
asked for a full refund. Tesco didnt agree and asked for a decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. In summary, Tesco said that the call with Mr H was to verify 
that Mr H consented to the payment and the level of intervention expected by the 
investigator was disproportionate to the amount of the transaction. At the time of the 
payment, Tesco had no concerns about it and its unfair to now apply hindsight. Tesco also 
said that it didnt think Mr H showed concern about the payment and even if it had provided 
generic scam warnings hed have gone ahead with the payment, particularly as Tesco didnt 
think hed have found anything online which would have changed his mind. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what has happened and of the impact the scam has had on Mr H. 
What I need to determine is whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in not doing a 
chargeback or S75 claim and whether it should have done more to prevent the loss. 
Chargeback 
Tesco are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. And 
whilst there is no right to a chargeback, this service thinks its good practice to raise one 
where there is a reasonable prospect of success. There are very limited options for 
payments that have gone to any type of investment. Mr Hs claim was that he could not 
withdraw his funds from his trading account with G and that they were operating fraudulently. 
Mastercards scheme does not consider claims about being unable to withdraw funds from 
trading accounts and the scheme doesnt provide dispute resolution options for victims of 
alleged fraud. So, taking all of this into consideration, I think Tesco Banks decision not to 
raise a chargeback claim on Mr Hs behalf was reasonable.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is an unbroken debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship between the parties. 
As Mr H was responsible for repaying the amount owed to his credit card provider, he is the 
debtor. Mr Hs Tesco credit card was used to make the disputed payment, so Tesco is the 
creditor. And G was the supplier. But the payments Mr H disputes werent made directly to 
G  they were made to two other merchants, and via the payment gateway, which breaks 
the chain/relationship. There is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a 
third party who was not privy to the DCS relationship I have referred to above. So I also dont 
think Tesco has acted unfairly in declining a S75 claim.
Mr H said in submissions to this service that Tesco should have told him at the time of 
payment that there were restrictions to the protection that paying by card can offer. I dont 
consider it would be feasible for Tesco to set out detailed Mastercard rules (that are not 
made by Tesco), or legal principles, each time a credit card payment is made though. 
Should Tesco have done more to prevent the payments from being made?
Banks are expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. Under the 
Payments Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr H is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the 
payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Tesco should have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
But there is a balance to be struck: banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. 
The first payment Mr H made was too low in value to cause any concerns, so I consider 
Tesco acted reasonably in allowing this payment to be made. It wasnt sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say Tesco ought to have done more.   
The second payment was blocked by Tesco twice, so Ive considered what was discussed 
when Mr H called Tesco about it. Mr H commented that when he tried to make a payment 
earlier that day, he received a text message that asked if he was making the payment and 
he confirmed that it was. He had noticed on the website of the company he wanted to pay 
(G) that his second attempt to pay had also failed and didnt want to make multiple 
payments. I have set out below what was then discussed. I havent named the payee but 
have used the letter B. B was a different company to G but the payments to B were the 
ones Mr T sent for the scam investment. Halifax: Transaction wise I can see its [B] £1,803.35, thats the one that was declined twice. 
Is that what you were trying to put through?
Mr T  Yeah
Halifax  OK, Im just going to double check a few transactions prior. All I need to know is 
whether you recognise them or not [transactions discussed]
We then have [B] for £250.26 back on 11th.
Mr H  Yep
Halifax  Excellent
Mr H  Thats the same payee, the [B] one that Im trying to pay now.
Halifax  Is it the same? Right, its shown up slightly differently name wise but I dont know if 
maybe they use a few different you know names on statements and things like that.
There was no further discussion and the advisor said he would remove the block so that the 
payment could be made. 
The investigator concluded that the Halifax advisor should have asked more questions about 
the recipient and provided scam warnings. Tesco say that the call was to ensure Mr H 
consented to the payment and that the investigator was applying hindsight. But Mr H had 
already confirmed that it was him via text message and the payment was still blocked. 
Mr H was making a second international payment in a few days to the same country. The 
payment was to a cryptocurrency exchange. I consider that by this time Tesco was aware of 
scams of this nature which involve a small initial payment followed by larger payments. Only 
a few months later Tesco stopped all credit card payments to buy cryptocurrency or invest in 
crypto assets because it said the market was largely unregulated, and an increasing number 
of people were falling victim to cryptocurrency scams. Im not persuaded Tesco took this 
decision lightly or without a considerable amount of evidence that I believe it would have 
gained over a period of time. 
So I believe that when the call took place in February 2021 Tesco was aware of the risk 
involved in making the £1,814.81. But it took no steps to discuss them with Mr H or to 
provide him with any warnings about how to protect himself, even though it blocked the 
payment and had a conversation with Mr H. Im persuaded that had the Tesco advisor asked 
Mr H some questions about the reason for the payment and provided advice about scams of 
this nature Mr H would have completed further checks and not continued with the 
investment. There were online warnings about the company Mr Hs second payment went to 
from early January 2021  so before Mr H made this payment. 
Tesco said in its response to the investigators view that it didnt think a generic warning 
would have made a difference as Mr H was under the spell of the scammer. I think the 
advisor should have asked Mr H about the reason for the payment and provided a warning 
tailored to investment scams rather than a generic scam warning. And, as Ive mentioned 
above, there were negative reviews prior to the payment being made. In the circumstances, I 
consider Tesco should take some responsibility for Mr Hs loss. 
Finally, Ive considered whether the loss should be shared with Mr H. It seems to me that Mr 
H trusted the reviews sent to him by the scammers and didnt undertake his own research 
before deciding to transfer his funds. Had Mr H looked at reviews of B (the company his 
funds went to when he made the second payment) hed have seen the negative reviews Ive 
referred to above. He also took at face value Gs claims that it was regulated. Tesco was the 
expert here though so should bear most of the responsibility for Mr Hs loss. Given these 
points, I think its fair to reduce the refund Mr H receives by 30%. In addition to this payment, 
Tesco should rework Mr Hs credit card account to remove any additional interest and 
charges incurred because of this debt.My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should:
- Reimburse 70% of the second payment and rework Mr Hs credit card account to 
reimburse any interest and charges incurred as a result of this debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman