DRN-3042866
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund a payment made on his credit card 
to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for four tickets to a concert. 
What happened
In February 2018 four tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a concert later 
in 2018 using Mr Ts Barclays credit card. The total cost charged to his card was just over 
£645. Mr T soon realised hed paid more than the face value. So he didnt use them to go to 
the concert and in the end went to the concert using other tickets. Mr T feels he was never 
told the total cost of what he was buying so he complained to the Website. He wasnt 
successful with this, so he then complained to Barclays. 
Barclays considered raising a chargeback but decided not to do so because it didnt think 
there was a reasonable prospect of success. It also considered s75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 and thought that there wasnt sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. So it didnt think it could do any more for Mr T.
Mr T didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, they didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Ts request for a refund. Mr T didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Mr T then bought). It is solely about what Barclays did or didnt 
do.
Mr T accepts he made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that he 
did this transaction with the Website in question. He says he was misrepresented to and 
didnt know the total cost to be charged which would then be applied to his credit card 
account.
This service has seen a number of complaints about this website and has built up through 
these cases and its enquiries a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went 
through when purchasing tickets. This understanding includes understanding changes to the 
selling process over several years. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Mr T would have gone through at 
the time he bought the tickets and what he would have seen on the website. And having 
considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I appreciate that the 
full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. However Im satisfied on 
balance that when Mr T went through its several stages and got towards the end of the sales 
process and then had to enter his card details the total cost to be charged to him was shown 
at that point and before he completed the transaction.
Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mr T and correctly 
applied to Mr Ts credit card account with Barclays. 
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr T does 
here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr T didnt properly authorise 
the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Barclays should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Barclays) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Barclays isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
Barclays says it considered a chargeback. But decided it didnt have a realistic prospect of 
success. It says it thought this because there wasnt persuasive evidence that something 
had gone wrong with the transaction itself (like wrong amount or double charged) or that the 
tickets werent delivered or wouldnt have provided access to the event.
Having considered all that we know I think Barclayss decision that there wasnt a 
reasonable prospect of success in going through the chargeback process is fair and 
reasonable in my opinion. Consequently I dont think Mr T lost out because of this position 
taken by Barclays.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ts Barclays credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Barclays as he does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. The Act includes certain financial limits for s75 to apply which have a minimum and 
maximum levels. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making Barclays responsible during the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Mr T entering into the agreement. In essence this means 
Barclays can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales 
process before the agreement was reached. And under section 56 the financial limits 
requirement doesnt apply. For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr T, Barclays and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information is displayed to buyers. And I 
think, under the guarantee, its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if 
the seller doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets.
The financial limits necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 are that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100. Ive seen a breakdown of the 
costs of the tickets and fees from the Website. But whether or not this dispute meets the 
financial limits required for Section 75 doesnt make a difference for the reasons I shall now 
explain. 
For a successful claim Mr T would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website. He says the pricing wasnt clear enough. But he did receive the tickets and 
as he used other tickets to gain entry to the event we dont know that he wouldnt have 
gained entry to the event with the tickets in question. The Website does provide a guarantee 
here so if hed tried to get in and couldnt hed not have lost out. Barclays isnt responsible 
for Mr Ts decision not to use the tickets. And considering what has happened here Im not 
persuaded the tickets wouldnt have gained him access to the event or that hed have lost 
out. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here.
This service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes and what 
consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. This includes screenshots of 
the process from the time that Mr T was using the website.  Clearly in many sales process 
things can be done better as Mr T argues. But Barclays can only be responsible here if there 
is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted Mr Ts decision 
to purchase. This is a different test to whether or not the Website concerned could be better 
or could have made things clearer.
There was no breach here because the tickets Mr T bought were supplied to him. And 
having considered the website sales process throughout from the time Mr T used it, Im not 
persuaded he was told anything that was untrue which led him to buy tickets hed have not 
bought otherwise. 
Ive considered the entire sales process including that before Mr T makes the agreement, 
but it doesnt make a difference whether I consider this under s75 or indeed s56 because a 
claim under the Act can only be successful if there is breach or misrepresentation. And Im 
not satisfied there is either here.
Mr T has said it wasnt clear that the Website wasnt a secondary ticket website, otherwise 
known as a ticket reselling Website. Ive considered this and how the website looked around 
the time and the terms and conditions of the Website. Im satisfied it made clear it was a 
ticket reselling website and not the original seller of the tickets.So having considered everything I think that Mr T hasnt lost out here as I think Barclays 
made a fair decision in not taking the chargeback issue further. Im not persuaded that there 
has been a breach or misrepresentation here by the website which makes a difference and 
that Barclays is responsible for. 
I think Mr T could see the total price when he got to the end of the sales process on the 
website. And I think Barclays correctly applied the total cost to Mr Ts credit card account. So 
I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to refund Mr T for the tickets. As a consequence this 
complaint is unsuccessful. However I do appreciate that this isnt the result Mr T was looking 
for. But it needs to be remembered that Barclays can only be held accountable for what it is 
responsible for and obligated to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman