DRN-2094094
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain about the advice they were given by Connells Limited, during their 
mortgage application process.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N wanted to raise money for the purchase of a new house through a mortgage. 
They approached a mortgage consultant of Connells. 
The size of the loan required was miscalculated, which resulted in a shortfall of over £13,000 
on the date of exchange of contracts. This meant the size of the mortgage had to be 
increased, along with its interest rate, resulting in increased monthly repayments.
Mrs and Mr N complained about the miscalculation to the mortgage consultant, saying he 
was responsible. But the consultant didnt properly register the complaint with Connells, so it 
wasnt aware of it. The mortgage consultant paid Mrs and Mr N £1,500 personally in 
compensation for the problems they experienced in completing their purchase.
Mrs and Mr N were concerned that theyd received a personal payment from the consultant 
and felt the complaint hadnt been properly dealt with. So, they complained formally to 
Connells.
Connells responded that it didnt know about the original complaint, and as the consultant 
was no longer working for it, it didnt know why he had made the £1,500 payment. But it said 
it wasnt responsible for the shortfall in the mortgage. It said it was reliant on the information 
it was given by Mrs and Mr N, including the amount outstanding on their current mortgage as 
they were raising additional capital for their new purchase, and any calculation was based on 
that. However, it did acknowledge that Mrs and Mr N had suffered distress and 
inconvenience by the complaint not being properly dealt with, and offered them an additional 
£250 compensation, and said it would not seek to recover the £1,500 already paid.
Mrs and Mr N did not agree and complained to our service. They said they had had sufficient 
savings to cover the difference when they were first advised by the mortgage consultant, but 
as they had been told they wouldnt need to use them, they had spent it by building an annex 
for an elderly relative in the new property. So, they have lost money as a result of the 
increased monthly payments.
Our investigator thought that Connells were responsible for the shortfall in the mortgage on 
the day of exchange. He thought Mrs and Mr N would probably have decided to use their 
savings to prevent a larger mortgage being needed. And this larger mortgage was on a 
higher interest rate so required larger monthly payments.
His view was that the payments Mrs and Mr N had to make on the higher interest rate, over 
the two years that they were fixed for, should be compared to what they would have had to 
pay on the lower rate, over the same period. And Connells should pay the difference.
Connells didnt agree. It said it felt their original offer of £250, in addition to the £1,500 
Mrs and Mr N had already received, was sufficient compensation. They also said that as a 
result of it working to resolve the matter, Mrs and Mr N were able to retain £1,000 wrongly 
paid to them by the mortgage lender, and their mortgage rate was amended. It also didnt 
accept the assumption that Mrs and Mr N would probably have used their savings and may 
have decided to proceed with the higher loan amount anyway.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
When a consumer approaches a professional mortgage consultant, and a mortgage is 
arranged by that consultant on their behalf, it is reasonable for the consumer to expect to be 
provided a good service. And I think this includes having sufficient funds arranged to cover 
the purchase of the house at the point of exchange of contracts. However, while the 
mortgage consultant is responsible for finding and advising on suitable products, I would 
also expect the consumer to check that they have sufficient funds available to complete the 
purchase. The mortgage broker is reliant on the figures they are given by the consumer, 
when calculating what will be required. And the broker isnt able to access this information 
any other way.
Mrs and Mr N provided Connells with their current mortgage redemption figures. Once the 
calculations were done, it was Mrs and Mr Ns responsibility, along with their solicitor, to 
ensure there were sufficient funds available before proceeding.
It was only at the point of exchange of contracts that the shortfall was noticed. But they 
proceeded in the knowledge that they needed extra funds. And they, and the lender, were 
satisfied that the higher repayments were affordable.
Mrs and Mr N have said that had they known a larger mortgage would be needed, they 
would have bought a different property, with an annex already built, as opposed to using 
their savings to build one. But with their requirement to have extra living space, I think on 
balance it would have probably cost more, so they would most likely have had to take a 
larger mortgage, with the associated extra costs.
So, whether they built an annex, or bought a home with one already included, I cant see 
how they have lost out here. And the house they have purchased, in which they have built 
an annex, has quite possibly gained in value as a result. 
So, on balance, I am satisfied that there was a mistake which led to insufficient funds being 
available on the day that contracts were exchanged, but I cant fairly say this was the 
responsibility of Connells. And this should have been noticed by either Mrs and Mr N or their 
solicitor before this time. And although Mrs and Mr N have had larger monthly payments 
over the two years the rate was fixed, I dont think they have lost out as a result. Theyve had 
the benefit of the extra funds, so I dont think its fair that Connells compensate them for this.
The response to my provisional decision
Connells accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mrs and Mr N £250.
Mrs and Mr N didnt accept the decision. They said they hadnt received the £250 from 
Connells. They also said that there wasnt much more they could have done through the 
remortgage and second home purchase process other than follow the advice of their mortgage advisor. They wanted Connells to pay the interest on the extra money they had to 
borrow to complete their purchase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also re-considered my provisional findings in light of Mrs and Mr Ns response. But I 
dont agree that there was little more they could have done. I think it was theirs, and their 
solicitors responsibility to ensure sufficient funds were available to complete their purchase.  
And given they had the benefit of the extra funds to purchase a property and build an annex, 
I dont think they have lost out as a result.
For these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind.
 
My final decision
As a result of all the above I dont uphold this complaint
We dont know why the consultant made the payment of £1,500 without Connells 
knowledge, but Connells has given an undertaking that attempts to recover this wont be 
made.
However, Connells have agreed to pay Mrs and Mr N £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they were caused by the initial mishandling of their complaint. I think this 
is fair and reasonable, so require Connells to do so now. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman