DRN-4150909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about financial losses they say were caused by Nationwide Building 
Society completing on their lifetime mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W applied for a lifetime mortgage with Nationwide to fund a property purchase. 
They received an offer on 10 January 2022 and agreed a completion date of 31 March. 
Although they completed the sale of their old property on 31 March 2022, Mr and Mrs W 
were not able to complete the mortgage and purchase of their new property until 20 June. 
Mr and Mrs W say that Nationwide is responsible for the delay. 
Having sold their previous property, Mr and Mrs W had nowhere to live until they could 
complete the purchase of their new property. They say that as a result they had to live in a 
series of temporary accommodations  short term lets, hotels, or staying with friends and 
family  and put their belongings into storage, as well as incurring out of pocket expenses. 
Mr and Mrs W finally agreed a completion date of 17 June, but completion was further 
delayed, and only went ahead on 20 June. Mr and Mrs W brought a County Court claim 
against Nationwide for additional costs incurred between 17 and 20 June. Nationwide settled 
that claim and paid them £270. 
That period is therefore not part of this complaint. This complaint is about the delay up to 17 
June, a period of 77 days. Mr and Mrs W say the total costs they incurred in this period 
amount to £7,302. They say theyve issued a court claim against their solicitors for part of 
the total, and hold the seller of their new property responsible for another part. Mr and Mrs W 
say that Nationwide was responsible for 25 days of the overall 77 day delay to completion, 
and on a pro rata basis they want Nationwide to pay £2,275 of their total expenditure. 
In addition, their mortgage offer expired and had to be re-issued. The interest rate increased 
from 3.11% to 3.81%. Mr and Mrs W say that if they live another 19 years, this means their 
loan balance will be £34,587 higher. They also want Nationwide to compensate them for 
this. 
Nationwide accepted that its solicitors, a firm Ill call E, had initially delayed by 25 days when 
first instructed. But it said that this didnt result in an overall delay to the completion date, 
since E then expedited matters to make up for the time lost. And ultimately the reason it took 
so long to complete was because there were particularly complicated conveyancing matters 
associated with their new property. It said that as a result it would never have been possible 
to have completed on 31 March. However, it offered £250 compensation for the upset the 
initial delays caused  though it didnt think they impacted the overall time taken to 
completion. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with that and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought Nationwide had made a fair offer, so Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations, and Im sorry to hear of the difficulties they faced 
when they were unable to complete their purchase within the time they wanted to. However, 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to compensate 
them for any part of the costs they incurred between 31 March and 17 June 2022. 
Nationwide accepted in its response to Mr and Mrs W that its solicitors, E, had delayed for 
25 days at the start of the process. I can see from the history that E received a draft contract 
from Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors on 10 February, received search results on 15 February, and 
received further documentation on 1 March. But E didnt take any action until contacted 
again by Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors on 21 March. This was unreasonable delay and E should 
have taken action sooner. 
There are two areas where Mr and Mrs W consider Nationwide caused loss  the expiry of 
the mortgage offer and its replacement with an offer at a higher interest rate, and the 
expenses they incurred between 31 March and 17 June.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for the additional 
interest Mr and Mrs W will incur because of the expiry of the mortgage offer and the higher 
rate on the new offer. All mortgage offers are time limited. In this case the mortgage offer 
expired on 7 April. Nationwide agreed a short extension to 16 April but wouldnt agree a 
further extension. I think that was reasonable. By that stage there were still several matters 
outstanding, and it wasnt clear when completion would happen, so a short further extension 
to an imminent completion date wasnt possible.
I dont think it would have been possible for completion to have happened by 7 April or even 
16 April even if E had started work in February rather than March. The property Mr and 
Mrs W were buying was unusual and had complex conveyancing issues  including that it 
was a new build on former commercial premises, and that part of the land included a claim 
of adverse possession over land registered to a third party. E raised a number of queries 
with Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors, which the solicitors took substantial time to reply to, and 
didnt always provide complete replies. 
There was also disagreement between the solicitors about what insurance policies and 
undertakings were required. Mr and Mrs W think that E was unreasonable about this, but Im 
not persuaded thats a matter for me to comment on. E was acting on Nationwides 
instructions and acting to protect Nationwides interests, and was entitled to form its own 
view of the best way to do that. E does not fall within my jurisdiction and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not equipped to review decisions made by conveyancing lawyers. 
This complaint is about Nationwide, not E. I can consider whether, in acting as Nationwides 
agent in bringing the mortgage to completion, E caused administrative delay which meant 
the mortgage completed later than it should have done. But I cant consider whether its legal 
advice to Nationwide, or the exercise of its legal judgement in acting on Nationwides behalf, 
was appropriate or justified. Its reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the expertise of its 
solicitors and its not for me to say that the solicitors should have given different advice or 
reached different conclusions. 
Taking that into account, I dont think there was any prospect of the loan completing before 
16 April in light of the queries and other matters E raised and the time Mr and Mrs Ws 
solicitors took to respond to them  even without the delay in not beginning work before 22 March. 
It therefore follows that even without that initial delay, the offer would have expired before 
completion. Once an offer expires, a new mortgage offer  at the prevailing interest rate at 
the time  would have been issued. Im satisfied that even had nothing gone wrong Mr and 
Mrs W would not have been able to complete on the 3.11% interest rate.
Mr and Mrs W also hold Nationwide responsible for part of their expenses between 31 March 
and 17 June. But Im not persuaded it would be fair to uphold this part of the complaint 
either.
In the first place, it was Mr and Mrs Ws choice to complete the sale of their previous 
property on 31 March ahead of completion of their purchase, rather than agreeing with their 
buyer that there would be simultaneous completion. There may have been good reasons 
why Mr and Mrs W completed their sale first rather than at the same time, but nevertheless 
Nationwide isnt responsible for the two not being simultaneous  and it was the fact that 
they werent simultaneous which was the root cause of Mr and Mrs W having to pay for other 
accommodation. Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors had asked the parties to work towards a 
31 March completion but that had never been agreed, so I dont think I can reasonably hold 
Nationwide responsible for Mr and Mrs W committing to their sale completing on that date 
ahead of their purchase, or for the costs they incurred in setting a sale date before the 
completion of their purchase.
Secondly, I dont think that overall their completion was delayed or happened later than it 
should have done (the delay between 17 June and 20 June, which falls outside this 
complaint, apart). Having reviewed the full history of interaction between E and Mr and 
Mrs Ws solicitors, Im satisfied that after 22 March E acted with expedition, which made up 
time lost before that date. 
There were long delays in providing information that E and Nationwide required. Ive 
explained why its not for me to say those requests were unreasonable. In any case, it 
seems Mr and Mrs W accept that their own solicitors were at fault in not responding promptly 
to these queries, since theyve said they are pursuing the solicitors for part of the expenses 
they incurred.
Im therefore satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to cover 
any part of Mr and Mrs Ws expenses. It wasnt responsible for their decision to sell their old 
property before they could complete on the new one or the costs flowing from Mr and 
Mrs Ws decision to organise their house move in that way. While E did cause some delay, it 
made up for that in handling the rest of the process expeditiously  making up for the time 
lost. Im not able to say that it made unreasonable requests or gave incorrect advice to 
Nationwide. And much of the delay once the process started after 22 March seems to have 
been with Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors not E. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that in offering £250 compensation for the upset the 
initial delay caused, without agreeing that it was the cause of the additional expenses Mr and 
Mrs W were put to, Nationwide has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs W £250 
compensation, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman