DRN-4199379
The complaint
Mr D raised a claim with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in regard to a piece of art he acquired 
using a fixed sum loan agreement. He says the artwork was defective at supply and 
complains that Novuna has declined his request for a refund.
What happened
Mr D acquired a piece of art in September 2016 financed by a fixed sum loan agreement. He 
says he viewed the art in the gallery and then purchased it by phone around a week later. 
Mr D says the art was stored until 2019 due to him being in between properties and he then 
hung it in 2019 at which point a flaw (Mark 1) became apparent. In August 2019, he informed 
the publisher and contacted the gallery for comment.
Mr D raised a complaint with Novuna in February 2020 about Mark 1 being a defect. He says 
Mark 1 was accepted but he was told it was caused by his negligence. Mr D had an 
independent assessment and valuation carried out in March 2021. He says a second flaw 
was identified and the artwork was valued at £100. Mr D had a further assessment carried 
out in August 2022 which confirmed Mark 1 was under the paint and so it was present at 
supply. At this point a third flaw was noted. Mr D submitted a follow up complaint to Novuna 
in September 2022 based on the outcome of the assessments he had commissioned. His 
claim was rejected which Mr D says was based on the testimony of the artists 
representative which he said was unreliable. Mr D says the art wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and he wants a full refund of the cost of the art and the additional costs involved in his claim.
Novuna issued a final response letter in December 2022 saying its response to Mr Ds claim 
was in line with its legal obligations. It said it had commissioned expert views in regard to the 
issues Mr D had raised. These said that Mr D had bought an original piece of art which was 
made using power tools and so there would be pits and valleys and that the scratches were 
part of the artwork. It said based on the evidence it had received in regard to the 
imperfection with the art it wasnt able to require the dealer to take back the art and / or 
provide a refund. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint based on the following reasons:
Mr D contacted Novuna with the new evidence in September 2022 which was more 
than six years after Mr D acquired the artwork. Our investigator said this could mean 
that a claim couldnt be raised as it fell outside the timeframe for the Limitation Act 
1980. 
Regarding Section 75  misrepresentation he said that Mr D had viewed the artwork 
before purchase and there was nothing to suggest it had been misrepresented to 
him. 
Regarding Section 75 breach of contract our investigator said that the material the 
artwork was made from could be easily marked, scratched or dented when moved. 
He also said there was uncertainty about whether the dent was present before the 
metal was painted and if this was the case it was part of the artists work. Based on 
this he didnt think there was enough to say there had been a breach of contract by 
the retailer. 
Regarding the Consumer Rights Act 2015, he noted that Mr D viewed the artwork 
before purchase and so if the defects were present at that point, he thought Mr Ds 
viewing should have revealed these.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he made his initial claim in 2020 
and that his complaint in 2022 was a continuation of that claim. He said that there were two 
inspection reports. The first established that there were flaws with the art and the second 
that these flaws were below the paint which he said showed the issues werent caused by 
him. He said it couldnt be determined whether the artist intended the marks to be present 
and that the marks were latent and invisible to the untrained eye. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconclusive, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have happened given 
the evidence provided and the wider circumstances. 
Mr D acquired a piece of art in September 2016. He initially raised a claim with Novuna in 
February 2020 saying that there was a defect with the art (Mark 1) which had only been 
identified when the art had been hung in 2019. Subsequently two further flaws were 
identified, and Mr D raised a further complaint with Novuna in September 2022.
While I take all relevant rules and regulations into account - in this case I have specifically 
considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
- my decision is based on what I consider a fair and reasonable outcome given the unique 
circumstances of the complaint. 
I find it reasonable that Mr Ds claim was considered under Section 75 as the price was 
within the claim limits and there appears to be the required debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship in place. For a claim to be valid under Section 75, it would need to be 
established that the art had been misrepresented to Mr D or that there had been a breach of 
contract by the supplier. 
In this case, the art was hung in a gallery and Mr D viewed it before purchase. No evidence 
has been provided to suggest Mr D was given false information about the art that led to his 
acquisition and so I do not find there is evidence of any misrepresentation.
Mr D says that there has been a breach of contract due to the latent defects and that the art 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply. I have considered all of the evidence and specifically 
the expert reports provided but, on balance, I do not find that I have enough to say that the 
art wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and I have set out my reasons below.
First, there is a possibility that damage occurred to the art after acquisition. Mr D has 
explained that the art was stored between 2016 and 2019 when he was between 
properties. It has been explained that the art is a painting on aluminium and that this 
is a material that can be easily damaged when being moved. It has also been said that if damage occurred it would cause the aluminium to deform but the paint 
wouldnt flake. Therefore, I do not find I can say for certain that Mark 1 wasnt caused 
by damage while the art was in Mr Ds possession. 
Mr D viewed the art before buying it. Had Mark 1 been present it is possible that he 
should have noticed this and as such acquired the art with Mark 1 being accepted. I 
note Mr Ds comments about Mark 1 only being able to be identified in certain light, 
but as he was able to assess the art in the gallery, I find it reasonable to say he 
accepted the art as it was.
I understand the second two flaws were only identified when the expert inspections 
took place and so I accept that Mr D was unlikely to have noticed these when he 
viewed the art. But that doesnt mean the art wasnt of satisfactory quality. The art is 
an original piece, and it has been explained that the technique to produce the art 
involves the use of power tools that will result in scratches. The flaws that have been 
noted are recorded as being under the paint and so it suggests they were part of the 
artists work. There is nothing to suggest that the retailer caused any damage to the 
art or that the art was any different when it was delivered to Mr D as it was when 
received from the artist. 
Overall, while I understand that Mr D feels that he should receive a refund for the cost of the 
art and I note the valuation he received, in this case I do not find I have enough to say that 
the art wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply or that there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the retailer. Because of this I do not find I have enough 
evidence to say that Novuna was wrong not to uphold Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman