DRN-4493732
The complaint
Mrs M complained about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) who provided her home insurance. 
Mrs M was unhappy with the handling of her claim, arrangements made for alternative 
accommodation (AA) and misrepresentations made by Zurich.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim when her property was badly damaged from a leak originating from the 
flat above hers. Zurich accepted the claim, but Mrs M was unhappy with the general 
handling of it.
Whilst Zurich accepted that AA was appropriate for the claim, Mrs M felt that Zurich took too 
long to find appropriate AA and she thought her family was left living in damp and dangerous 
conditions for too long and less than ideal AA when it was finally arranged.
Zurich said it addressed Mrs Ms issues and appointed a loss adjuster to ease the stress of 
the claims process. It acknowledged Mrs M was disappointed with the service provided and 
offered £100 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs M thought the compensation 
was derisory and she thought the service she received fell well short of what Zurich had 
advertised.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She asked Zurich to pay an additional 
£350 compensation (so £450 in total) for the distress and inconvenience suffered from not 
been provided with adequate AA soon enough. Mrs M disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 November 2023. I said:
Ive read the file and there isnt any evidence that Mrs M has complained about Zurichs 
approach to repairing the damage caused to her flat. So, I wont consider this. I will focus my 
decision on the handling of the complaint and more specifically the circumstances 
surrounding the appointment of AA and any misrepresentations Zurich may have made.
Given AA is at the heart of this complaint, Ive considered what Mrs M shouldve expected 
when she made her claim. Zurich have accepted AA was appropriate, so the complaint is 
more about how this has been implemented.
The policy shows a special provision in section 3, which states Temporary Accommodation 
 the insurer will indemnify the insured in respect of the reasonable additional costs 
necessarily incurred for comparable temporary accommodation including the insureds 
removal expenses. The policy clarifies this covers the whole period the property is 
uninhabitable or inaccessible.
Therefore, I think the policy is clear that Mrs M shouldve expected accommodation like her 
own, such as a similar size, facilities and location. The policy is clear that this is provided 
whilst the home was uninhabitable, so Mrs M shouldve expected this to be provided 
promptly.
Mrs M has also explained that she viewed Zurichs website to further understand what she 
could expect. Ive reviewed this information. The headline states Zurich offers customers AA 
through Airbnb, with a further strapline With 1,000 customers displaced from their home in 
any year, location is the key to stress reduction.
The article explains that the whole process can have a huge impact on mental health. By 
offering a much wider range of accommodation, we can provide a like for like solution that is 
much closer to the home. Locality is a lifeline for many families. Most importantly, its a home 
from home experience, not a hotel or serviced apartment which are often located in city 
centres, near business parks or airports. This enables us to provide the best AA we possibly 
can.
I think Zurichs advertisement set a clear expectation for what Mrs M couldve expected. I 
think its reasonable for her as one of Zurichs many customers to have expected the same 
service and AA facilities that have been advertised to all its customers. In other words, Id 
expect Mrs M to have had the opportunity to seek AA via searching the Airbnb website and 
find a property like her own and as the terms state as soon as the house becomes 
uninhabitable (so, as soon as reasonably possible).
Ive read the timeline of events and I dont think Zurich has fulfilled this expectation, so Im 
intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Zurich said it couldnt meet the expectations it set out as there were external factors outside 
of its control. It said it was limited on the accommodation options it could offer to Mrs M due 
to big events happening in the area that increased demand generally for accommodation. 
Zurich said it was difficult to meet Mrs Ms requirements, for example a property that she 
could keep her pet in. Zurich said it asked Mrs M if she could find any suitable 
accommodation herself.
Mrs M appreciated there was issues with demand for property in the area and there is 
evidence she was prepared to compromise. I can see at one point she was willing to take a 
place with only one bedroom to avoid staying in a budget hotel which she described as very 
dirty. However, she was clear she needed some outside space due to her pet.
I dont think the claim was managed well by Zurich  each time Mrs M presented an 
opportunity, Zurich had to go away to gain separate approval from management. This 
delayed the process, potentially properties were snapped up in this time and it was causing 
frustration for Mrs M. 
I can see Mrs M has been pro-active, she was in constant communication with Zurich to try 
and push things along and to offer options. At one point I can see she asked what the 
budget limit was for the accommodation, but Zurich wouldnt share this. Mrs M felt this 
caused wasted time as the accommodation she was looking for was never going to be 
approved. Zurich did finally share there was a £300 a night benchmark.
Mrs M felt obliged to take the only accommodation that was offered to them. However, I 
dont think this is fair. The policy doesnt state a daily cap on AA costs, it only states an 
overall cap which is relative to the overall cost of the claim. However, this was never 
discussed with Mrs M. The policy also sets out Mrs M is entitled to similar accommodation to 
her own. The AA provided was a good distance from where Mrs M lived, was only furnished 
with single beds and was of inferior quality. Therefore, I dont think Zurich has fulfilled its 
obligations under the policy. Mrs M has provided evidence there were other properties that were available, but Zurich didnt want to pay the cost.
Prior to Mrs M taking this accommodation, Mrs M has said she was forced to stay in her own 
home as the only option provided to her was a dirty budget hotel. Therefore, Mrs M has been 
living in her damp and unsafe house for this time until she could move to AA. Shes not had 
access to running water to cook or wash. I havent seen evidence that Zurichs process has 
been efficient or its governance effective to resolve this issue reasonably for Mrs M. Mrs M 
has constantly had to push her case to get what she received. But I think that didnt fulfil 
Zurichs obligations.
Mrs M has explained how this episode has placed a huge mental strain on her at a 
vulnerable time. I think living in these conditions wouldve been worrying and could 
potentially have caused harm to her health. I think Mrs M has been inconvenienced by 
having to resolve problems as Zurich wasnt moving fast enough. I think Zurich has put its 
own financial health above the service it has provided Mrs M and her health. I think Zurich 
has failed Mrs M at the time she needed its help the most, I dont think it has handled the 
claim well. Zurich caused delays in Mrs M moving out of the damaged property which 
ultimately lengthened the time she couldnt live normally in her own home.
So, I intend to uphold this complaint. Mrs M needed AA for a long time, so the impact of it 
not been provided effectively has had a long-lasting impact on day-to-day activities. The AA 
offered wasnt comparable in standard to her own home. She also had 17 days where she 
stayed in her own damp house. For the reasons, Ive already set out I think this will have 
taken a toll on Mrs M. I think the impact was greater due to her vulnerable circumstances. 
There has been serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, so Im intending to 
increase the compensation by £900 (to £1,000 in total) for distress and inconvenience. This 
is a high award for our service to give, but I think it is fair in these circumstances. 
Mrs M is also covered for any removal costs when she moved into AA, so if she hasnt 
claimed these yet then Id expect these to be considered by Zurich. Additionally, as her AA 
was a long way from her own home, I think its fair Mrs M is reimbursed any travel costs. 
Therefore, I intend Zurich to consider these costs and reimburse on this basis, provided Mrs 
M provides receipts or reasonable evidence of these expenses. Whilst Mrs M lived at home / 
in the budget hotel, she was without running water, so wouldnt having cooking facilities. 
Therefore, I intend Zurich to reimburse any costs of eating out during this period (provided 
evidence is provided).
Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich didnt specifically say whether it accepted or rejected my decision. Zurich said Mrs M 
hadnt provided her bank details, so it needed these before it could pay the compensation. 
Zurich said it had paid some removal expenses for a man and a van that had been 
submitted by Mrs M.
Zurich said Mrs M never moved into the budget hotel but said it paid a disturbance 
allowance amounting to £1,080 whilst Mrs Ms home was uninhabitable. It said Mrs M had 
the use of cooking facilities whilst at home, just no running water. Zurich said Mrs M had 
access to cooking facilities once she moved to a serviced flat.
Mrs M didnt accept my findings in full. She felt the compensation shouldve been much 
higher (around £5,000) as she said thats what Zurich wouldve paid for AA if it had provided 
it properly. She thinks by offering lower compensation, Zurich would be encouraged to 
provide a poor service to all its customers. 
Mrs M said her family were out of their home for four months while the repairs have been carried out to her home. She thinks this should be reflected in higher compensation
Mrs M reinforced her position that she felt that Zurichs contractors failed when providing a 
satisfactory service to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent heard any new information that has persuaded me to change my original decision. 
Zurich have confirmed Mrs M never moved into the budget hotel. However, I dont think 
Zurich can say Mrs M had cooking facilities whilst she stayed at home if she also didnt have 
running water. I dont think it would be possible to cook and clean up without running water.
I think its fair, if Mrs M does submit any further expenses supported by reasonable evidence 
that Zurich should reimburse these.
Ive considered Mrs Ms request for further compensation. Although she was out of her home 
for a long time. Most of this time was caused due to the incident claimed for. This wasnt the 
fault of the insurer. With any claim there will be inconvenience suffered, but I can only ask 
Zurich to compensate Mrs M for problems it caused.
Our service has an approach to compensation, which considers how much distress and 
inconvenience was caused. We have a framework of awards based on different levels of 
impact. Our awards dont consider how much it wouldve cost Zurich if it had done something 
else. Thats not how we approach things. I think the award I have set-out is consistent with 
our framework, so I wont be changing the award. It considers all the failings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Pay Mrs M £900 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (Zurich should also 
pay the original £100 it offered if it hasnt already done so). Mrs M will need to 
provide Zurich her bank details to allow Zurich to do this.
Reimburse removal costs when moving to and from AA (based on reasonable 
evidence).
Reimburse travel costs when living in AA (based on reasonable evidence).
Reimburse costs of eating out whilst living at home (based on reasonable evidence).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman