DRN-4074574
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Toyota (GB) Plc didnt renew her roadside assistance insurance policy. 
She wants it to compensate her for her costs incurred when her car broke down whilst she 
was abroad. 
What happened
Mrs Ts car broke down whilst she was abroad, and she called for roadside assistance. But 
the provider said her cover had expired the previous month. So Mrs T had to arrange her 
own recovery and repairs and she arranged for a friend to come and collect her. She thought 
Toyota should reimburse her for these costs. 
Toyota repatriated Mrs Ts car and offered to pay Mrs T £750 as a gesture of goodwill for 
half her out of pocket expenses. But Mrs T wanted it to cover all her costs. Toyota later said 
that we couldnt consider the complaint as it was about a service agreement. It withdrew its 
goodwill offer when Mrs T brought her complaint to us. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
complaint was one we could consider as it wasnt a service agreement but a contract of 
insurance. She thought Toyota had sent Mrs T a letter telling her that it had changed 
provider and what she should do to renew her roadside assistance cover. But Mrs T hadnt 
done this, and she had gone abroad without cover. 
Mrs T replied that Toyotas letter wasnt sent recorded delivery. She said it said what she 
needed to do to renew her cover and she thought she had already done this, and Toyota 
had confirmed this in writing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs T felt frustrated when she found that her cover wasnt in place, as 
she thought it was. I can see that this caused her inconvenience and stress at a difficult time. 
And I can also see that she incurred considerable costs which I can understand she wants 
reimbursed. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that this is a complaint we can consider. This is because the contract 
Mrs T held with Toyota met all the criteria for determining whether a service agreement is in 
fact a contract of insurance in keeping with the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
and case law. 
These are: a consideration was provided in the form of a warranty; the agreement offered a 
benefit in the form of repairs; the terms and conditions of the cover were binding; a claim 
could follow a specified event, in this case a breakdown; the occurrence of the event was 
uncertain; the event was adverse to the consumers interests; and, the contract went beyond 
Toyotas existing statutory obligations. 
In 2022, Toyota changed its roadside assistance provider. So consumers would have to 
renew their policies with the new provider. Toyota wrote to Mrs T in April 2022 telling her 
what she must do to renew her cover which was due to expire. Mrs T said she didnt receive 
this letter, but I can see that it was sent to the correct address and Mrs T said she received 
other correspondence from Toyota. I cant hold Toyota responsible for the postal service, so 
I cant say it did anything wrong. 
Mrs Ts cover then expired in May 2022, but it wasnt renewed with the new provider. Mrs T 
went abroad in June 2022, and she was without cover when her car had a breakdown. 
Mrs T thought Toyota should have sent its letter by other means. But I dont think its unusual 
for insurers to send letters. And I cant require Toyota to send them by specific means. So I 
cant hold Toyota responsible for Mrs T not receiving its letter.
Mrs T said she had confirmation from Toyota that her policy would automatically renew. But 
this letter was sent in 2021. And it was superseded by Toyotas later letter telling her that 
she would need to renew her cover, or she would not be covered. 
I accept that the letter in April 2022 doesnt highlight that it applies to consumers with 
automatic renewals. But I think its sufficiently clear that the cover is to cease and what 
consumers need to do to renew their policies if they so choose.
Mrs Ts policy was paid for with an annual direct debit. So she could have checked whether 
the payment had been taken or whether her policy had renewed. Mrs T thought this would 
be onerous. But I think its for a consumer to ensure that their cover is in place. So I cant 
say that Toyota did anything wrong or that its responsible for Mrs Ts costs.
Mrs T also complained that she had no benefit from her later renewal of her policy as her car 
was scrapped. And so she wants a refund of her premium. But I cant consider this here as 
Mrs T would first have to raise this with Toyota to give it a chance to respond.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman