DRN-3134842
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that NewDay Ltd wouldnt give her a payment holiday on her account or 
provide her with the means to enable a cash payment to be made.
What happened
Miss C contacted NewDay in August 2019 because she was struggling to meet the 
contractual payments required on her NewDay credit account. NewDay agreed to a payment 
holiday on Miss Cs account for three months, until November 2019. This payment holiday 
was then extended at Miss Cs request for a further three months, until February 2020.
In April 2020, in response to the emerging Covid-19 pandemic, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance to credit providers surrounding the provision of 
three-month payment holidays to customers who met certain criteria. Miss C applied for such 
a payment holiday, but NewDay declined to provide one to her at that time.
Miss C wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy that when she asked NewDay to 
provide her with the means to enable her to make a cash payment towards her account, 
NewDay were unable to do so. So, she raised a complaint.
NewDay looked at Miss Cs complaint, But they didnt feel that Miss C had been eligible for a 
further three-month payment holiday when shed requested one, and they also noted that 
they didnt have the facility to provide Miss C with the type of payment slip that would have 
enable her to make a cash payment. As such, NewDay didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that NewDay 
hadnt been obliged to provide the further payment holiday that Miss C had requested or the 
type of payslip that Miss C had wanted, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Miss C may have believed that the guidance issued by the FCA in April 
2020 meant that she should have been entitled to a three-month payment holiday at that 
time. However, the purpose of the guidance issued by the FCA in April 2020 was to protect 
consumers who had until that time been able to make the repayments required on their 
credit accounts without issue but who were in danger of having their credit file impacted 
solely as a result of financial difficulties brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic which was 
emerging globally at that time, and which had led to the implementation of a UK nationwide 
lockdown and restrictions on many forms of employment.
As such, one of the criteria included in the FCA guidance was that to be eligible to receive 
such a three-month payment holiday, the applicant must not have had any recent prior 
financial assistance from their credit provider. And because of this, given that Miss C had 
recently benefited from two consecutive three-month payment holidays provided by 
NewDay, Im satisfied that NewDay didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C by 
declining to provide the further payment holiday requested by Miss C at that time.
However, the guidance issued by the FCA in April 2020 didnt ignore the plight of consumers 
such as Miss C who had previously received financial assistance from their credit provider 
but who now found themselves in financial difficulty because of Covid-19, and the guidance 
stipulated that while these consumers werent eligible for the described three-month 
payment  holidays, credit providers should offer such customers other forms of financial 
assistance where appropriate.
NewDay appear to have done that here, and I say this because its evident that NewDay 
asked Miss C to provide details of her income and expenditure which confirmed that Miss C 
had a minimal amount of disposable income available to her at that time. Its also evident 
that NewDay accepted an offer made by Miss C to pay £1 per month towards her account 
and that they suspended interest and charges on Miss Cs account while that payment plan 
was in place. 
This feels fair to me, and I find it difficult to conclude that NewDay acted unreasonably 
towards Miss C by placing her on such a payment plan, given Miss Cs circumstances at that 
time and her ineligibility for the three-month payment plan for which she had initially applied.
Im aware that Miss C is unhappy that, following the agreement of the £1 per month payment 
plan, she received a letter from NewDay advising that NewDay would be defaulting her 
account and reporting it as such to the credit reference agencies if the arrears on the 
account werent cleared by 9 June 2020. 
Credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference 
agencies. And, in circumstances where an amount of arrears has accumulated on an 
account and remained for some time, and where the known financial position of that 
customer is such that its considered that there is a low probability of that customer being 
able to clear those arrears in the foreseeable future  both of which were the case in this 
instance  it is considered appropriate that such an account be considered as being in 
default and reported to the credit reference agencies as such. 
This means that in this instance, even though NewDay had agreed to a £1 per month 
payment plan, given that the account had already been in arrears for some time at the time 
that the plan was agreed, this plan didnt preclude the possibility that the account may be 
defaulted if the balance of the account continued to remain or fall further into arrears.
Miss C has stated that in response to receiving the Default Notice she contacted NewDay 
and offered to make a £1,000 payment towards the account but asked that NewDay provide 
her with payslips to allow the payment to be made in cash. And Miss C has stated that the 
reason that she asked to be enabled to pay in cash was because her current account was 
overdrawn and she was concerned that is she paid the money into her current account it 
would be used by her bank to reduce the overdrawn balance on that account, and so 
wouldnt be made available to her to be able to make payment against her NewDay account.
I can appreciate Miss Cs position here, but NewDay have confirmed that they dont have the 
facility to provide the specific type of payment slips that Miss C asked for. And while I can 
understand why Miss C wanted to make the payment in the specific manner that she did, 
NewDay arent obliged to accept payment in that specific manner.It also must be noted that NewDay do accept payment by several different means, and while 
I understand that Miss Cs financial circumstances at that time made making payment by 
those means difficult, I dont feel that Miss C ultimately not making the payment to NewDay 
was as a result of any error or unreasonable omission made by NewDay, but rather was 
because of Miss Cs inability to make the payment by any of the other means available to 
her  and therefore isnt something that I would consider holding NewDay accountable for.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that NewDay have acted in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NewDay to take any further action at this 
time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss C was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman