DRN-4233215
The complaint
C, a sole trader, is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has refused to refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In September 2022, C received a spoofed call from someone who said they worked 
for his bank but who, ultimately, turned out to be a scammer. The scammer 
persuaded C that his account was under attack and he needed to move his money to 
a safe place. C moved £24,000 followed by £3,046.04 from his personal account to 
his business account with Revolut. He then moved a total of £29,551.34 (via four 
transactions) from his business account to the scammers account(s).
Revolut said it had given C sufficient warnings that he might be falling victim to a 
scam and so refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It also tried, but was 
unsuccessful, in recovering any more from the bank and account to which his money 
was transferred.
Our investigator thought Revolut ought to have done more to protect C and prevent 
his losses. So she recommended that Revolut refund his losses along with interest. 
Revolut agreed to refund 50% of Cs losses but C did not agree. So the complaint 
has come to me.
I asked Revolut informally to reconsider its position and to fully refund C - but it said it had no 
further comments and would wait for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
It is the case that C authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means C is responsible for them - even though C was the unfortunate victim 
of a scam.
But Revolut should be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could involve 
fraud or be the result of a scam. 
Its not in dispute that Revoluts fraud detection systems were triggered when C tried 
to make the first payment of £24,000 between his own accounts and Revolut says C was 
provided with a warning relating to safe account scams. But Revolut seems to have 
accepted it could have done more  as reflected in its offer to refund 50% of Cs losses.
As Revolut has accepted its part in this case, I wont go into detail here. But I do agree it 
could have done more. A payment to a safe account is usually typical of a scam, and this, 
added to Revoluts own risk analysis, amounted to a red flag. And therefore, Revolut 
shouldve contacted C to question him further about what was going on when he transferred 
the funds from his personal to business account. If it had, I think its more likely than not the 
scam wouldve been uncovered and prevented. 
This decision therefore focuses on the outstanding dispute between the parties  whether C 
should bear some of the responsibility for his loss.
Should C bear some responsibility for the loss?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether C should bear some responsibility for his loss. 
C has provided evidence of the telephone numbers and calls he received which 
all appeared genuine (as a result of number spoofing). C says the advisers guided him 
through the process and told him to ignore the warnings. C also said the warning did not 
raise any alert as he got the same warning for the transfers between his own internal 
accounts.
C has also explained and provided evidence to show the texts he received that he thought 
were from his other bank(s). The texts appear in the text chain of his genuine communication 
with his other banks and this further convinced him this was genuine. 
I appreciate there was a gap of around one hour and 45 minutes between one set of 
transfers and the next  but the screen shot of the calls C had - shows he was on the call to 
the scammer for two hours and 17 minutes from 18:28. This means the call would have 
lasted up to around the time of the last transfer from Cs business account. This of course is 
a deliberate tactic by the fraudster/s to create pressure and fear  in the hope it would 
disrupt Cs thinking and make him more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this happened 
here to C and that in all the circumstances, his response was not unreasonable. 
All things considered, C was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. I am satisfied 
he believed he was liaising with his genuine banking providers at the time and didnt 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on 
the particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for 
some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions by C.
Putting things right
To put things right, Revolut Ltd should now:
Pay C a refund of the money that was lost to the scam (so £29,551.34)
As C has been deprived of the use of those funds, Revolut Ltd should also pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of the transfers to the date of settlementIf Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell C how much its taken off. It should also give C a tax deduction 
certificate if it asks for one, so C can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to put things right for C as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman