DRN-2350723
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mr M says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr M opened a store card account in a shop in 1996. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding balance on Mr Ms store card each month 
if hed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if he lost his job. It also included 
some purchase protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he doesnt remember how he applied for the store card, but he does know 
that PPI was mentioned as something he had to have.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms application for the store card. It includes a section headed 
PAYMENT & PURCHASE PROTECTION. Theres a brief description of the cover, and 
it says If you would like cover, please tick the box below. Theres a tick in the box, next 
to the words Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection 
InsurancePlease debit my Account with the relevant premium until further notice.
I think it was clear from the store card application form that PPI was optional. And I cant 
fairly conclude that Mr M was told anything that contradicted that, based solely on his 
memory of events that happened more than 20 years ago. Overall, I think its most likely 
that Mr M decided to take the PPI knowing that he had a choice  although I can 
understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Based on what we know of the way these policies were sold in store at the time, I think 
its unlikely that AXA advised Mr M to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr M enough 
information to enable him to decide for himself if he wanted PPI, knowing what 
alternative means hed have had of making his monthly repayments if he was unable to 
work.
Mr Ms told us hed have been entitled to two weeks full pay, followed by four weeks half 
pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if hed made a successful 
claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what he owed on his 
store card. And it would have done this each month until his credit agreement ended, or 
he returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of his claim had been repaid- 
whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have covered him for significantly 
longer than hed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the same level 
of benefit if hed lost his job. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mr M received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other 
day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mr Ms told us he had savings worth a few months of his pay at 
the time. But the PPI would have paid out for longer than I think its likely his savings 
would have lasted for if hed had to live on them. And having the PPI would have allowed 
him to use his savings to meet other day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledge that Mr M has also told us his family and friends could have helped with 
his monthly repayments if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure 
that Mr Ms family and friends would have been in a position to help if the need had 
arisen. And having the PPI would have meant he didnt need to rely on them. Taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mr M.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as if 
he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances when he opened the store card account, Mr M was 
eligible for the policy, and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working arrangements or 
existing medical conditions).
I think it would have been clear from the application form that thered be premiums to pay 
for the PPI. And as Mr M was paying for the policy monthly, he could have cancelled it at 
any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr M off taking it out. So I dont think hes lost out as a result of anything 
AXA may have done wrong.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman