DRN-2643163
The complaint
Mr K complains that Grattan Plc (Grattan) has continually failed to make the reasonable 
adjustments he asked them for when he fell into financial difficulties with his catalogue 
account. 
What happened
 In early 2019 Mr K wrote to Grattan to explain hed lost his job which has seriously impacted 
his mental health and finances. Mr K asked Grattan to hold off all debt collecting procedures 
while he focused on getting himself well, and that if Grattan needed to contact him, they do 
so in writing by letter only.
Mr K kept Grattan informed of any changes in his mental health. But Grattan continued to 
email about the outstanding debt - so he made a formal complaint. Mr K gave Grattan 
medical evidence to show how the pressure and failure to make adequate reasonable 
adjustments was continuing to impact his mental health and hindering his recovery.
In Grattans final response letter to Mr K they asked for copies of original medical documents 
and for an income and expenditure form to be completed. Mr K says Grattans response 
lacked compassion and made him feel that they were questioning his integrity and the 
validity of the medical evidence provided, which subsequently caused him to have a panic 
attack when he read their response. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ks complaint and concluded that Grattan hadnt acted 
unfairly, and that it wasnt unreasonable for Grattan to seek further information to enable 
them to provide the assistance Mr K required. Mr K disagreed with our investigator and 
requested that the matter be considered by an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I sent Mr K and Grattan a provisional 
decision on 28 January 2021 to explain why I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. I 
said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  as long as I received it by 26 
February 2021. 
Mr K accepted the provisional decision, but Grattan didnt respond. So Im still upholding this 
complaint - Ive explained my reasoning again below.
Mr K wanted Grattan to hold off on all debt collecting procedures while he focused on his 
mental health recovery. My understanding from his correspondence with Grattan is that hes 
not asked for the debt to be written off, or for Grattan to accept reduced repayments. All Mr 
K was asking for was time to allow him to focus on getting well and for Grattan to show 
empathy towards the situation and not persistently pursue repayment of the debt. However, 
Grattan responded by asking him to complete an income and expenditure form and 
requested he send them originals of his medical evidence.
Asking Mr K to provide originals of his medical evidence was an unnecessary burden given 
what hed told Grattan about how dealing with paperwork and his finances had a negative 
impact on his mental health. Mr K had also given Grattan permission to contact his GP to 
validate the medical evidence they were questioning. Grattan say they contacted Mr Ks GP 
on several occasions to discuss their concerns and left messages for the GP to contact 
them. But I dont think Grattans actions went far enough. I think it wouldve been quicker for 
Grattan to contact the GP in writing with the questions they had so the GP was able to reply 
with an answer. I contacted the GP surgery to verify the information Grattan were 
questioning  when asked, they provided me with the information needed within 24 hours.  
The current pandemic is also causing Mr Ks mental health to deteriorate as at times he 
hasnt been able to access the usual support hes been relying on. Bearing all this in mind 
and that I think Mr Ks been more than reasonable in what hes been asking Grattan to do, I 
contacted Grattan to say I think the right thing to do would not only be to hold off pursuing Mr 
K for repayment of the balance but to write it off entirely. From what Mr Ks told us, its highly 
unlikely hell be returning to employment anytime soon. 
Grattan responded that after reviewing what Id said they made an offer to recall the account 
from the debt collectors meaning no further contact will be made to retrieve the outstanding 
balance from Mr K. Grattan also said they wouldnt pursue the debt any further, but the 
balance and default would remain on Mr Ks credit file as a true reflection of whats 
happened with the account balance. Should Mr Ks circumstances change which allows him 
to make payments in the future, if he chooses to contact Grattan about settling the debt, the 
default could potentially be marked as satisfied or partially satisfied dependent of the 
circumstances.
I think what Grattan have proposed is a fair and reasonable way to move forward and would 
mean all contact between them and Mr K would stop. This is more than what Mr K originally 
asked them to do, which was asking Grattan to just give him time to get well, and then hell 
look at how he can repay what he owes. 
But I dont think this offer goes far enough to compensate for the way Grattan have handled 
Mr Ks account. Mr K says he wants any charges and interest added to the account since 
April 2019 refunded. Ive looked at the total amount of interest and charges that were added 
and it was minimal and stopped soon after April 2019. So refunding such a small amount 
wouldnt be sufficient or fair compensation for whats happened.
I dont think Grattan have been sympathetic enough towards Mr Ks situation, and I think 
their actions have caused distress and upset to Mr K during a very stressful and difficult 
time. Grattan contacted Mr K via email and phone when he asked them not to. They also 
asked him to provide further information to them when Mr K had already made them aware 
that dealing with any financial matters would put further pressure on him and hinder his 
recovery. 
Whilst I dont think it was Grattans intention to add to Mr Ks difficulties, I think they should 
have thought more carefully about what the right thing to do was in this situation, given what 
they knew about Mr Ks mental health. Even though Im satisfied Grattan are now taking the 
steps to treat Mr K fairly, I also feel Grattan should pay Mr K £150 to go some way towards 
compensating him for the trouble and upset caused - as it's clear this matter has resulted a 
great amount of distress and worry.  
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Grattan Plc to:
Recall the debt from the debt collectors
Not to pursue Mr K for any outstanding balance and mark his credit file accordingly
pay Mr K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman