DRN-2555692
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited had to cancel his car insurance 
policy due to a system error.
What happened
Mr B had a multi-car insurance policy with Advantage. In August 2020 he called them to 
advise that he had sold one of the cars on the policy, so needed to remove it. 
Advantage explained that there was a problem with its systems at the time, which meant it 
was unable to make the amendment. However, as the car had been sold, the policy wouldnt 
be able to remain in place as there was no longer an insurable interest. So it said the only 
option was to cancel it. In September Advantage cancelled the policy.  
Because of this, Mr B had to get insurance elsewhere, and this was more expensive. He 
also said he lost out on his three year No Claims Bonus (NCB). He made a complaint to 
Advantage.
Advantage upheld his complaint. It said it would refund Mr B the premium for the period of 
the policy that wasnt used. It also offered £100 compensation to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. However it didnt agree it should pay anything extra to 
make up for the NCB or the difference in premiums.
Mr B didnt think this was enough. He said he had paid much more for his car insurance than 
he would have done if it hadnt cancelled the policy. And has had to get out two separate 
policies for two different cars. He also said he has lost out on discounts as he lost his NCB. 
He brought his complaint to this service. 
When we contacted Advantage about the complaint it said it would increase the 
compensation offered to £150. And it said it would provide a pro-rata refund for the 
difference in price of its policy and the one Mr B purchased for the car he had on cover with 
it  on receipt of evidence of the cost. It also offered a refund of 6% of the cost of the new 
policy as this is the average discount offered for Mr Bs NCB.
Our investigator considered this but thought Advantage should do more. She said Mr B had 
also taken out an additional policy for a second car. And, as this was taken out during the 
period he would have had insurance with Advantage, he had paid more than he would have 
done if the policy hadnt been cancelled. So she said Advantage should also pay the 
difference between the cost of the policy for the second car and the amount he would have 
paid insuring it with Advantage on the multi-car policy. She also thought Advantage should 
pay interest on the premium refund at 8% to make up for the time Mr B had been without the 
money. And she said Advantage should issue a letter confirming Mr B had three years NCB 
on receipt of proof that he had made no claims up to the end of the original policy period with 
it.
Advantage agreed to pay interest on the premium refund and to issue a letter about Mr Bs 
NCB. However it didnt agree it should pay anything towards the policy premiums for the 
second car. As it said at the time the policy was cancelled, there was only one car insured, 
so it wasnt responsible for a new policy purchased for a different car.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, its the role of this service to decide if the business involved 
did something wrong. And where it has, decide what it should do to put things right, in order 
to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt
In this case Mr B wanted to continue his policy with it, and just remove one of the cars. As 
Advantage wasnt able to do this, it had to cancel his policy. Advantage has said that this 
was due to an error with its systems, so accepts it should have been able to meet Mr Bs 
request without cancelling his policy. As Advantage has accepted it got something wrong, I 
need to decide what it should do to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in if it 
hadnt.
If Advantage had been able to process Mr Bs request, then his policy wouldnt have been 
cancelled. He would have removed the additional car in August 2020 and his policy would 
have continued until it was due for renewal in December 2020.
Instead, Mr B has had to find insurance elsewhere for the car that was still on cover with 
Advantage after he cancelled the policy. Mr B has said he was only able to find a policy that 
was more expensive than the one he had with Advantage. And Ive seen evidence that he 
has purchased a new policy at a higher cost. So Im satisfied he has had to pay more due to 
the fact it cancelled his policy. 
So to put Mr B pack in the position he would have been in, I will require Advantage to refund 
the premiums for the part of the policy that Mr B didnt use, as it has said it will. And 
reimburse Mr B for the difference between the cost of the cancelled policy and the cost of 
the new policy for the period from the cancellation until the date it was due to renew. 
Advantage should also pay 8% interest on both of these amounts, to make up for the time 
Mr B has been without the money. 
Mr B has said that he has also had to buy an additional policy for a new car he has 
purchased. He says, if Advantage hadnt cancelled his policy, he would have added this car 
on to that and it would have been much cheaper. 
Mr Bs new insurer has provided the policy schedule for his new policy. So I can see he took 
out insurance for the second car in September 2020. If Advantage hadnt cancelled his 
policy with it, then it would still be in place at that time. And, I think its most likely he would 
have added this car onto his policy at this time. Because of this, I think Mr B has paid more 
for the insurance for the second car, due to Advantage cancelling his policy.
Advantage has questioned why Mr B didnt take out a multi-car policy with another insurer. It 
says this would have saved him money. Mr B has advised that he took the cheapest options 
available to him. And I think in the circumstances he would have most likely gone with the 
most competitive option. So I have no reason to doubt what he says. 
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that in order to put Mr B back in the position he 
would have been in if it hadnt cancelled his policy it should pay the difference between the cost of adding the additional car to his original policy and the cost of his current policy, for 
the period between when he took it out and when the original policy was due to renew. It 
should also pay 8% interest on this amount.
If Mr Bs policy hadnt been cancelled, and he had made no claims, he would have benefited 
from a three year NCB at the time the policy was due to renew. Therefore I also agree 
Advantage should issue a letter to confirm Mr Bs three year NCB up to the renewal, on 
receipt of proof that no claims were made in this time.
Finally, I agree Advantage has caused Mr B distress and inconvenience. While it gave him 
notice of the cancellation, this left Mr B very little time to arrange a new policy and this would 
have been stressful. It has agreed to pay him £150 compensation to make up for this. And I 
think thats fair in the circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Refund Mr B the premiums for the policy it cancelled pro rata from the date of 
cancellation until the date it was due to renew.
Pay the difference in the premium between his new insurance and the policy Advantage 
cancelled for the car that was on cover, for the time between the cancellation and when 
the policy was due to renew.
Pay the difference in the premium between the insurance policy for his second car and 
the amount it would have cost to add the car to his multi-car policy Advantage cancelled, 
for the time between the cancellation and when the policy was due to renew.
Pay 8% interest on these amounts from the date the policy was cancelled until the date 
payment is made, to make up for the time Mr B has been without the money.
Pay Mr B £150 compensation.*
Write a letter confirming that Mr B had three years NCB at the end of his policy year, on 
receipt of evidence that no claims were made in this time. 
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers it should deduct income tax from any 
8% interest element of my award it may do so, but should give Mr B the necessary 
certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman