DRN-3067172
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has stopped paying his 
income protection claim.
What happened
Mr F held a group scheme income protection insurance policy through his employer. He first 
claimed on this policy in 2013. He left his employer in 2014, but L&G continued to pay direct 
benefit under the policy. Mr F was subject to reviews, but cover continued under the policy 
for a number of years. Following a review in 2019, L&G informed Mr F it would stop paying 
his claim in June 2020, as it determined he no longer met the required definition of 
incapacity. It stopped making payments to him in September 2020.
Mr F explained that his condition hadnt changed since he began claiming and wasnt likely 
to. He explained that while he wasnt receiving any active medical input into his care, it was 
because nothing could be done to improve his condition. He asked L&G to reconsider paying 
his claim, but it was satisfied the medical assessment it had carried out showed he could 
begin working again.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He felt that L&G 
had acted fairly in declining the claim, as the assessment it had carried out determined Mr F 
could return to work in a similar role to his previous occupation. He noted Mr F hadnt seen 
his GP since 2015 and that he hadnt taken medication or received treatment since 2016 for 
the relevant condition. Mr F disagreed with the outcome and provided a letter from a 
specialist medical service that hed been attending. So the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the time Mr F stopped working for his employer, and L&G began paying him directly, 
the definition of incapacity he needed to meet was suited occupation. This is defined as:
the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake any occupation which we consider appropriate to his experience, training 
or education.
Mr Fs policy also has a definition for incapacity under own occupation, which had applied 
to him in the past. But this is a higher bar than suited occupation and didnt apply in 2019. 
So the test here is whether Mr F did meet the above definition when L&G assessed him and 
subsequently terminated his claim. 
Its not in dispute that Mr F hasnt received ongoing care for the medical condition that 
caused him to be off work. However, hes explained that as there is currently no cure or 
treatment for his condition, this is why he hasnt been under active or continuous medical 
care  as practically, nothing can be done for him. So Ive reviewed the medical evidence he 
has supplied including the general information about his condition, alongside L&Gs 
assessment and reports.
I appreciate Mr F is now being seen by a specialist medical service for his condition. And Ive 
read the medical information hes provided from the senior occupational therapist that works 
in this department. However, Mr F wasnt using this service at the time of the assessment, 
he only returned to it after L&G stopped his benefit. The documentation we hold shows he 
used this service again from October 2020. But I accept the senior occupational therapist 
can comment on Mr F during the time her service has seen him. And from this, and her 
experience of his condition, she can likely make assumptions on how it impacted Mr F prior 
to him attending the service. So Ive weighed up this evidence against what L&G has 
provided. 
On reviewing L&Gs reports Im satisfied they have been carried out by suitably qualified 
individuals and I consider L&G has fairly interpreted the Functional Capability Assessment. 
This sets out that with an exercise programme and support, Mr F would be able to return to a 
job role similar to his previous employment. I can see why L&G determined that this meant 
Mr F wasnt meeting the required definition of incapacity anymore, as this suggests he 
could possibly work in his own occupation again, but in any event, he would be able to do a 
suited occupation. Ive then reviewed the other medical evidence to see if it opposes the 
findings of the assessment.
When first asked, Mr Fs GP confirmed he hadnt been involved in Mr Fs care for a number 
of years, so he wasnt able to comment on the status of Mr Fs condition. The GP and 
hospital information Ive seen from before June 2020 isnt specific and/or current enough to 
undermine the assessment. And so it doesnt show Mr F meets the required definition of 
incapacity. Mr F hasnt been able to provide any comparable medical evidence from this time 
and while I have considered the letters from the specialist medical service, Im not 
persuaded these should carry more weight than L&Gs reports. These letters were written 
after the claim period and so arent based on medical evidence from the time  only Mr Fs 
testimony, and knowledge of his condition generally. L&G had access to both of these things 
when it compiled its investigation and the assessment was carried out. So the letters Mr F 
has provided dont persuade me L&G has acted unfairly in terminating this claim.
As Mr F no longer works for the employer that took out this policy, he was only able to 
receive benefit as L&G had agreed to continue this cover direct. Once Mr F stopped being 
eligible to claim, this agreement ended, and he no longer held a policy with it. This means 
any new information or evidence from after the claim ended doesnt have to be reviewed by 
L&G in the sense of starting a new claim, as Mr F is no longer a customer. And as I cant say 
it acted unfairly in terminating the claim and ending payments in September 2020, Im not 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman