DRN-3043210
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Broadgate Financial Management
LLP (Broadgate) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In July 2016, Mr W contacted Broadgate for advice on his pension. They completed some of
the initial paperwork for Mr W, but as they didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on 
a
pension transfer they referred him to another firm (Firm B) for advice. Mr W was advised by
Firm B to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. After the transfer, Broadgate 
became the ongoing adviser on Mr Ws pension plan.
Mr W complained both to Broadgate and Firm B in 2020 about the advice he received. 
Broadgate said they didnt provide Mr W with any DB transfer advice. Mr W referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint but didnt uphold 
it. He didnt think Broadgates actions caused Mr Ws losses. He upheld the complaint 
against Firm B. Mr W disagreed and thought Broadgate should also be held to account, so 
the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is Firm B. They were the firm who had the
relevant permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr W could not have transferred his DB pension 
without Firm Bs advice.
I considered both complaints against Broadgate and Firm B. I considered whether Broadgate
should be held responsible for Mr Ws losses here in some form, however I dont think they
should. Ive upheld the complaint against Firm B in full.
Mr Ws representatives say Broadgate and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say Broadgate failed to act in Mr Ws best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
Broadgate became the ongoing advisers on Mr Ws pension and were charging ongoing 
advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr W would transfer. Ive also considered the 
possibility that Broadgate inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I havent seen any 
evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if they did, in my view none of 
their interactions with Mr W and possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the 
potential losses he suffered.
Broadgate did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr W not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr W on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB 
pension.
Mr Ws representatives say Broadgate referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr W with independent and suitable advice.
As the experts in this field it was Firm B who should have clearly told Mr W not to transfer 
and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any discussions with Broadgate 
would have likely made Mr W go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was Firm Bs positive recommendation that caused Mr W to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer.
I dont think Mr Ws potential losses here are caused by Broadgates actions and so I dont
consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman