DRN-3601905
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fish Financial Ltd didnt carry out his instructions to cash his 
investments and that, by the time it recommended de-risking his portfolio, the value of his 
investments had already fallen.
His complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor. For ease, I will refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mr K.
What happened
Mr K has a SIPP portfolio with Fish Financial. He retired in 2018 and from then on required 
£2,000 income per month from the portfolio. He had a cautious to moderate attitude to risk, 
which was assessed as 2 out of 5 on Fish Financials risk scale. And a low capacity for 
loss, because he was reliant on his SIPP to provide him with an income in his retirement.
Mr K said he contacted Fish Financial, probably on or around 9 March 2020, because he 
was worried about the downturn in the financial markets and future performance in the light 
of the Covid pandemic. He said he wanted to convert his portfolio to cash but was 
discouraged from doing so. He says Fish Financial should have sold his investments, or 
re-balanced the portfolio, to reflect a lower risk. Mr K said it recommended doing this in its 
communication on 16 March but by this time his investments had already fallen in value. 
Mr K gave instructions to switch to a lower risk on 19 March 2020.
Fish Financial said Mr K hadnt instructed it to sell his investments on 9 March; hed 
accepted its advice to remain invested. Mr K reduced the risk profile of his portfolio on 
19 March, which was against its advice. It said it acted in Mr Ks best interests and that its 
approach was to hold long term strategic positions in portfolios rather than attempting to time 
the market by switching in and out of investments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt conclude 
Mr K had given instructions to make any changes until 19 March 2020. And he didnt think 
the advice Fish Financial had given was unsuitable.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The concerns he expressed and his wish to de-risk his portfolio should have been 
enough for Fish Financial to act. Persuading him to stay in the market was the wrong 
advice, and not suitable, given his attitude to risk.
If Fish Financial had carried out his instruction to convert his portfolio to cash on 9 March 
2020, he would have avoided the 10% loss subsequently suffered. And he could still 
have re-entered the market when it had stabilised.
He would have taken the option to de-risk his portfolio, had it been offered.
Three days after hed been told not to de-risk, Fish Financial sent out a general 
communication giving the option to switch to a lower-risk strategy. This was the option he 
wanted but had been advised not to pursue.
It wasnt appropriate to only provide general advice to clients. He should have been 
given advice based on his individual circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Fish Financial hasnt been able to provide us with a recording, or file note, of the phone call 
which took place on or around 9 March 2020. Its clear from what I have seen, and from what 
Mr K has told us, that he had concerns following the market downturn and that liquidation of 
his portfolio was discussed. Im satisfied he didnt give an instruction for Fish Financial to 
liquidate his portfolio. I say this because he told us that he accepted, albeit reluctantly, Fish 
Financials advice to stay invested. 
Im satisfied that Fish Financials advice, for him to remain invested, wasnt unsuitable. The 
investment was for the long term and Mr K was reliant on the income from the investments 
during his retirement. It was important that his money remained invested, not only to provide 
him with the required level of income, but also to continue to provide long term capital growth 
to sustain the income in the future. I note that 10% of his portfolio was held in a short-term 
pot; and 90% was held in a long-term pot. Fish Financials strategy was that the short-term 
pot provided liquidity for Mr Ks income withdrawals, and it expected the long-term pot to 
recover from the market down-turn in the medium to longer term.
Mr K says that, had Fish Financial liquidated his portfolio in or around 9 March 2020, he 
would have avoided the 10% fall in its value. I cant disagree with him. But that position is 
only clear with the benefit of hindsight. I need to decide whether Fish Financial provided 
suitable advice, based on the circumstances and information it had at the time that advice 
was given. For the reasons Ive already explained, I dont find the recommendation to stay 
invested was unsuitable for Mr K at the time that recommendation was made.
Mr K says that, within a few days of his phone call, Fish Financial was recommending to 
clients that they de-risk their portfolio and that, had this been offered during his call, he 
would have accepted. But I dont find Fish Financials communication to all clients amounted 
to a recommendation to de-risk. Rather it set out the options that its clients might want to 
consider. In particular, it said that clients had the option to hold current strategy in the 
following circumstance, which was Mr Ks position:
if income is being taken, this ought to be from a low-risk or liquidity pot set aside for 
your next 3 years income. The long-term growth pot will recover and provide the 
growth to maximise the longevity of retirement income.It said that clients in this position might want to switch to a lower risk strategy where they 
are fearful about the absolute loss figures, but that there is no science to support changing 
strategies as it is designed to cope with such occurrences. I dont  think this amounted to a 
recommendation for clients to de-risk.
In a further email on 19 March, Fish Financial summarised the position again. It said that, for 
clients like Mr K, with a lower risk level of 1 or 2:
You have had good downside protection already and there is no reason to change. 
Indeed, there is likely to be a good opportunity to increase your risk level once the 
markets have settled down and participate disproportionately in the recovery.
I dont find this to be unsuitable advice.
Mr K says Fish Financial was only providing generic advice. But it had provided advice 
specific to Mr Ks individual circumstances during the phone calls on or around 9 March and 
on 19 March, and in exchanges of emails. 
On 19 March 2020 Mr K gave instructions to move to the lower risk rating. Fish Financial 
moved his portfolio investment from the moderate to cautious risk weighting to the cautious 
short-term option, which was a 1 out of 5 on Fish Financials risk scale. I dont find that Fish 
Financials advice had changed  it still recommended Mr K shouldnt change his 
investment. It warned Mr K that by moving to the lower risk investment he would lock in 
investment losses and might miss out on upside recovery of the markets. But Mr K gave the 
instruction to go ahead.
Im not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr K found himself. Market movements in 
2020 were difficult to predict and it wasnt easy to know the best course of action. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think Fish Financial provided him with the information he needed to 
understand the current position and likely future performance of the markets. I dont find Fish 
Financial provided unsuitable advice and I think it treated Mr K fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman