DRN-4003701
The complaint
Mr D complains that when he tried to use his bank card at an ATM at one of HSBC UK Bank 
Plc (HSBC) branches, it was retained without reason. He is also unhappy that the 
replacement card was sent out by second class post.
What happened
On 3 December 2022 Mr D used his bank card at an ATM and it was retained by the 
machine. A new card was sent to Mr D by second class post on the 3 December which was 
not received by Mr D until 12 December.
In the meantime, Mr D made several calls and attended a branch of HSBC to ensure that his 
card was being sent to him. Mr D says that he did withdraw cash when his card was retained 
but some businesses that he attempted to purchase things from did not accept cash and this 
caused him considerable distress and inconvenience.
Mr D made a complaint to HSBC who looked into the matter and paid him £250 
compensation.
Mr D didnt feel his complaint had been adequately resolved and so brought it to this service. 
An investigator from this service looked into it and they thought that the £250 compensation 
was reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree as he believes that further compensation is merited and so his complaint 
has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of the background has been deliberately brief since the investigator has 
adequately covered all the relevant facts. And it is not in dispute that Mr Ds card was 
retained when it should not have been and that this caused Mr D distress and 
inconvenience. So I am going to focus on whether the £250 that Mr D has been paid is 
reasonable, given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that it would be distressing to not be able to use a bank card for 9 days, and that is 
especially the case in the run up to Christmas. I also do understand that it is becoming 
increasingly common for some businesses not to accept cash payments. That said, the 
amount of compensation already paid by HSBC is commensurate with what I would have 
recommended, if such an offer had not been made. I say this bearing in mind he was not 
completely without money whilst he was waiting for his new card to arrive. But also, I think it 
fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr D in having to wait nine days for the card to 
arrive before he could make purchases with merchants who only accept card payments. So 
it follows that I am not going to ask HSBC to do anything more in relation to this.
Finally, I note Mr Ds comments that he believes that replacement cards should not be sent 
out second class post. But, although I understand why Mr D has made this point, it is beyond 
the remit of this service to instruct HSBC to change the way it runs its business.
Overall I think that HSBC has paid a reasonable amount of compensation to Mr D in relation 
to this complaint and therefore I do not think HSBC needs to do anything more in relation to 
this matter.
My final decision
It is my decision that the £250 that HSBC UK Bank has already paid to Mr D is fair in the 
circumstances. I therefore dont require it to do anything further to remedy this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman