DRN-3034620
The complaint
Mr K complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc didnt extend a deferment period after he wrote 
to advise he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr K took out finance with Hitachi to pay for a kitchen. The agreement came with an initial 12 
month deferment period for payments. The deferment period ended in June 2020. 
In May 2020 Mr K sent a handwritten letter to Hitachi and asked to extend his deferral 
period. Hitachi says it didnt receive Mr Ks letter. 
Mr K started making monthly payments to Hitachi in June 2020 and cleared the outstanding 
balance in full in October 2020. Mr K went on to complain that Hitachi had failed to respond 
to his letter or provide any help. Hitachi issued a final response and explained it hadnt 
received Mr Ks letter in May 2020 or any contact from him until October 2020, when he 
repaid the outstanding balance. But Hitachi offered Mr K £400 (around 50% of the interest 
he paid) as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Hitachi had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr K asked to appeal and said hed tried to contact Hitachi on multiple 
occasions after he wrote to it without success. As Mr K asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ks letter from May 2020 and can see he asked Hitachi to extend the 
deferral period. I dont doubt what Mr K has told us about writing to Hitachi. But Hitachi has 
also provided its contact notes that shows its correspondence with Mr K. It doesnt show any 
letters were received from him in May 2020. I note Mr K told the investigator he had also 
tried to call the business, but didnt go on to send in evidence to support that. The contact 
notes dont show any calls were received from Mr K until October 2020, when he cleared the 
balance. 
Our investigator asked Mr K for evidence of his calls. Mr K responded and queried why we 
havent accepted what hes told us. But where the circumstances of a complaint are 
disputed, well ask both parties involved for evidence to support what theyve told us. Mr K 
hasnt told us why he didnt provide his own records of contact with Hitachi. But without 
supporting evidence and taking the other available information into account, I cant say 
Hitachi treated Mr K unfairly. 
Whilst Hitachi didnt agree it had made any mistakes it has paid Mr K £400 (around half the 
interest he paid) as a gesture of goodwill. For the reasons set out above, I havent been 
persuaded Hitachi made mistakes or treated Mr K unfairly. Im satisfied the settlement 
Hitachi has paid is a fair way to resolve Mr Ks complaint, so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint because Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman