DRN-4131565
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank have irresponsibly 
lent to him, and they didnt make it clear the interest or fees they would charge him. 
What happened
Mr M applied for and was accepted for a Tesco credit card. He says this was irresponsible 
as he had previously default on a credit agreement and he had only just taken out eight 
loans and two credit cards in the previous three months of applying for the Tesco credit card. 
He said the interest and fees were excessive and Tesco werent clear what they would be 
charging for the credit. Mr M said Tesco did not complete relevant checks and they did not 
ask for evidence of his income and expenditure. Mr M made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said they received and approved his 
application on 11 December 2021. Tesco said they asked him for information about his 
income, outgoings and outstanding debts with other lenders. They said they didnt obtain any 
evidence of the income he stated as there would be no obligation for them to do so, based 
on the other checks they carried out, such as information from Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). Tesco said they provided him with a copy of the terms and conditions which 
informed him of the interest which would be charged and what the fees were. Mr M digitally 
signed the application, and his application was approved with a £250 credit limit. Mr M 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that Tesco was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr M provided as being truthful. They carried out a check with CRAs, which 
looked into Mr Ms borrowing history and other financial commitments, and this showed he 
had disposable income to be able to afford the credit limit he was approved for. He said 
while the data showed a default, this was applied almost two years prior to the application 
and there was no recent adverse information reported to the CRAs. Our investigator said 
the terms and conditions of the account were provided to Mr M in the credit agreement which 
Mr M digitally signed, and this explained when charges would be applied. Mr M asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he had £10,000 worth of debt on many credit 
cards and loans at the time of the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr M, Tesco needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no 
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Tesco said they did when initially approving Mr Ms application.
Tesco said they looked at information provided by CRAs and information that Mr M had 
provided before approving his application.
Im satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as Tesco had 
gathered information from two different CRAs. And although Mr M says he had £10,000 
debt at the time he applied for the Tesco credit card, the highest amount of unsecured 
borrowings that a CRA showed he had was £7,431. From this data, the highest amount of 
revolving debt (such as a credit card) outstanding was showing as £69. Mr M has mentioned 
the number of loans and credit cards he had taken out in the three months prior to his 
application. But CRAs can take 4-6 weeks for the data to be updated. So it doesnt appear 
that the loan/credit card information was updated on his credit file by the time Tesco had 
completed their checks. This would be outside of Tescos control.
Mr M had declared an annual income of £31,000 on his application. Tesco arent required to 
request evidence of this (or his outgoings) prior to approving an application for credit. The 
existing debt being reported to the CRAs at the point of the checks would have been less 
than a quarter of his declared gross salary. Even by adding the £250 credit limit to the 
existing debt, it would still be less than a quarter of his gross annual income. The CRAs 
showed the debt was virtually all in loan balances. Tesco had factored into the affordability 
what the highest payments the CRAs were reporting for his loan repayments, which was 
£836 a month. They also considered his mortgage repayment, credit card repayment and 
industry standard estimates of his living expenses, so this showed a disposable income from 
the £2,000 net income that Mr M told them he had. So it would appear based on the 
information Mr M and the CRAs gave Tesco that the credit limit of £250 would be affordable 
for Mr M. 
But thats not all Tescos data showed. The data also showed that Mr M had adverse credit 
data in the form of a default. So Tesco would have been aware that Mr M had previously not 
maintained an agreement. But the data also showed he had no bankruptcies, no County 
Court Judgements and the default was 29 months prior to his application and the default 
(£3,100) was for over 12 times the amount they were approving him for (£250). 
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  it doesnt automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, Tesco considered the information that Mr M had on his credit
file and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
Ive looked at Mr Ms credit agreement. Im satisfied that this is clear what interest Tesco 
would charge Mr M depending on the type of transaction he made, and Im satisfied that it 
also clearly displays any fees which could be incurred, so I cant agree with him that these 
werent clear. So it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman