DRN-3276517
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr C and Miss E and relates to an application for a 
product switch and a further advance on their mortgage with Santander UK Plc.
This decision follows on from a jurisdiction decision dated 16 February 2022 in which I 
decided that the only issues we are able to consider are as follows:
Santander failed to provide Mr C and Miss E with advice and no documentation was 
provided giving details of any early repayment charge (ERC);
Mr C and Miss E werent told that they would first need to complete their further advance 
before they could have a product switch.
To settle the complaint, Mr C and Miss E want Santander to revoke the ERC, as they say 
they were unaware of it. They also want compensation for not being able to complete their 
product switch first and then take out additional borrowing.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Miss E.
What happened
Mr C and Ms E have a mortgage with Santander, as well as a Help to Buy (HTB) equity loan. 
They were on a fixed rate which was due to end in January 2020 and contacted Santander 
to discuss a product switch and to increase their borrowing by £35,000 to purchase an 
additional 10% of the equity, thus reducing the HTB loan.
Mr C and Ms E were unhappy that the additional borrowing had to be completed before the 
product switch. They say they werent given any advice or documentation, and werent 
advised about the early repayment charge (ERC). Ms E says that if the product switch had 
been done first, they would have been able to have a fixed rate of 1.39%, but because the 
additional borrowing completed first, this took the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) to 82%, which 
meant they could only have a fixed rate of 1.69%. 
An offer was sent to Mr C and Miss E for the additional borrowing on 22 January 2020. This 
incorporated the product information (known as the ESIS) and, amongst other things, it 
detailed the ERC payable on the additional borrowing. This was accepted by Mr C and 
Miss E on 26 January 2020.
The product switch offer dated 3 February 2020 (which contained the ESIS for the main 
mortgage plus the additional £35,000), was accepted by Mr C and Miss E on 7 February. 
The ESIS contained full details of the product, including a detailed section explaining what 
the ERC is, how it is calculated, when it will apply and examples of the amount of any 
potential ERC if the mortgage is repaid during the fixed-rate period.
Mr C and Miss E complained to Santander about the way the application had been dealt 
with. They say they werent provided with an ESIS, nor any information about the ERC. They 
were also unhappy that they couldnt have the product switch first and then take out the 
additional borrowing. Miss E says that other lenders allow borrowers to do this, so its not fair 
that Santander wouldnt let them take advantage of the lower fixed rate theyd have got if 
theyd done the product switch first.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In a letter dated 21 December 2021 the investigator set out in detail the 
conversations that took place between Miss E and Santanders mortgage adviser (MA) on 
8 January 2020. 
From this, the investigator was satisfied that mortgage advice was given. She also noted that 
the MA explained that this was a two-stage process, and the implications of this on the LTV.
The investigator was also satisfied that Santander had provided an ESIS for the further 
advance and an ESIS for the product switch. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong.
Miss E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that just 
because Santander had sent our service evidence of an offer being signed, this doesnt 
prove she and Mr C were sent the correct ESIS. Miss E maintains that she only received the 
mortgage offer and not the ESIS.
Miss E also says that she hasnt seen any explanation as to why Santander thinks it is fair to 
complete the additional borrowing first and the rate switch afterwards. Miss E maintains that 
this isnt what other lenders do and its resulted in her and Mr C having to pay more interest.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. These are my 
reasons.
Two-stage process
I will explain first that Santander is entitled to set its own administrative policies, and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have any power to interfere with that. 
Santanders policy is that, where there is additional borrowing and a product switch, the 
additional borrowing is done first, followed by the product switch. This is to ensure that, in 
the event the new borrowing is declined and the customer decides to go to a different lender, 
the customer hasnt already tied themselves in to a new product with an ERC. 
This doesnt seem to be unreasonable to me. Mr C and Miss E would have been in a difficult 
position if theyd taken out a new fixed rate and then had their application for additional 
borrowing declined. Im satisfied that the two-stage process was explained to Miss E during 
the call with the MA. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
ERC/ESISWhen Mr C and Miss E took out their original mortgage, the ERC for the main borrowing was 
set out in the mortgage offer. That mortgage was still in effect, and at the point when the 
further advance was taken out, there was no ERC on the main mortgage as the fixed rate 
had come to an end on 2 January 2020 and the mortgage reverted to SVR. (I note 
Santander later back-dated and refunded interest calculated at SVR, but nothing turns on 
this.)
The available evidence is persuasive that Miss E discussed the ERC with the MA during the 
call on 8 January 2021. Im also satisfied that the ERC was set out first in the ESIS for the 
additional borrowing and secondly in the ESIS for the product switch. 
Miss E has confirmed that the offer documents were received. I think its unlikely that she 
and Mr C would have received the offer letter but not the ESIS. This is particularly so given 
that the offer letter confirms that enclosed with it is all information about the mortgage and 
goes on to explain how important it is that Mr C and Miss E read all this information. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that no ESIS was provided, either for the further advance 
or the product switch. This means Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C and Miss E were hoping for. I can see Miss E feels 
very strongly that Santanders policies are unfair in relation to its two-step process for the 
further advance and product switch. But Mr C and Miss E arent forced to have a mortgage 
with Santander. They are free at any time to switch their mortgage to another provider 
whose policies are more to their liking, subject, of course, to any ERC that might be payable 
on redemption of their mortgage to Santander.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman