DRN-4087880
The complaint
Mr E and Miss L complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited misled them about being 
able to claim a help to buy ISA scheme bonus. Mr E and Miss L ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr E and Miss L were buying a property and took mortgage advice from MAB. They 
intended to use savings, including a help to buy ISA, for their deposit. They hoped to claim a 
bonus from the help to buy ISA scheme. This was subject to meeting the schemes criteria. 
Mr E and Miss L say MAB told them this wasnt a problem. They say it knew they needed the 
bonus to make up the deposit.
Mr E and Miss L didnt meet the schemes criteria for the bonus. They discovered this shortly 
before exchanging contracts and had to borrow from family and credit card accounts to 
make up the shortfall for the deposit. They say they lost the potential benefit of the bonus 
after saving into the ISA for many years. 
MAB said it didnt advise Mr E and Mr L about the terms of the help to buy ISA and this was 
outside its remit.
Our investigator said while it wasnt MABs role to advise on eligibility for the help to buy ISA 
scheme, it contributed to Mr E and Miss Ls mis-understanding about this. Our investigator 
recommended MAB pay £100 compensation for its miscommunications.
MAB didnt agree. It said it isnt its responsibility to discuss eligibility for the bonus and it 
correctly referred Mr E and Miss L to the conveyancer. Miss L said £100 is a small amount to 
compensate them for the trouble theyve been through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MAB questioned whether its appropriate to rely on what Mr E and Miss L said was 
discussed at meetings, which it referred to as hearsay. Mr E and Miss Ls testimony about 
what was discussed in meetings they attended is evidence  as is testimony from MABs 
broker. How much weight I put on testimony depends on various things, including the 
credibility and consistency of a persons evidence and how this fits with other evidence such 
as contemporaneous notes, records, letters and electronic messages.
I should also explain that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
MAB gave mortgage advice to Mr E and Miss L. It says its not its responsibility to advise 
whether they met criteria for the help to buy scheme bonus. 
But just because advice about the help to buy scheme wasnt part of MABs remit doesnt 
mean it didnt give advice, or give the impression of doing so to Mr E and Miss L.
There were discussions between MAB and Mr E and Miss L about the help to buy ISA 
scheme before Mr E and Miss L found the property they went on to buy. MABs broker says 
he had discussions with Mr E and Miss L from early 2022 while they were looking for a 
property, and this included discussions about the help to buy scheme.
Mr E and Miss L found a property and Miss L contacted MAB on 11 April 2022. She was 
worried they didnt meet criteria for the help to buy bonus due to the property purchase price 
being over the threshold. Miss L says MABs broker told her there wouldnt be a problem. 
Miss L provided a screen shot of text messages with the broker that day. Miss L asked do 
you think because we are buying a house for £315[000] I wont be able to claim the extra 
money from my help to buy isa. MAB replied No that will be fine. So you can. Solicitor will 
arrange collecting it for you on exchange. Mr E and Miss L say they received the same 
confirmation during a face-to-face meeting on 20 April 2022.
MABs broker says he didnt know at this point where the property was located and his 
comment was only based on Mr E and Miss L being first time buyers. If so, Id expect the 
message to say something along those lines, especially as Miss L had asked specifically 
whether the purchase price meant they wouldnt be able to claim the bonus. 
Telling Miss L the solicitor would collect the bonus isnt the same as saying the criteria might 
not be met and this was something the solicitor would check. MAB could have replied to 
Miss Ls text to say it didnt know if theyd be able to claim the bonus, it could have said this 
wasnt something it could advise on or it could have told them to check with their solicitor 
that they could claim the bonus. It didnt do this. Instead, it sent a message which Mr E and 
Miss L read as assurance theyd be able to claim the bonus. 
MAB carried out a fact find which said the source of the deposit was savings. Notes made by 
MABs broker say savings were evidenced. The fact find and the notes dont mention the 
help to buy scheme. However, MAB was aware that Mr E and Miss L didnt have enough 
savings for the deposit because it had statements for their savings accounts. On 21 April 
2022 it sent an email to Miss L and Mr E which set out and added up the balances in their 
savings accounts. It asked for evidence of the remaining £4,000 needed for the deposit. 
Its unclear how (if at all) Mr E and Miss L responded to the email. But what is clear is that 
they expected the shortfall to be funded by the help to buy bonus. Mr E and Miss L say all of 
their calculations relied on them receiving the bonus, and the savings account statements 
support this. I think MAB was aware that this was their expectation.
Based on the available evidence, I think MAB knew Mr E and Miss L were relying on the 
bonus to make up their deposit and would have a shortfall without it. Despite Mr E and 
Miss L asking MAB if theyd be able to claim the bonus it didnt tell them (as it should have 
done from the outset) that it couldnt advise them and this was something they needed to 
check with their solicitor. Mr E and Miss L say MAB told them it wouldnt be a problem, and I 
think the evidence from that time supports what they say. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mr E and Miss L to assume what the broker said was right. They wouldnt necessarily 
have known this was outside the brokers remit. 
Mr E and Miss L were told by their solicitor in mid-July 2022 they didnt qualify for the bonus. 
This was because of the purchase price of the property. Mr E and Miss L decided to go 
ahead with the purchase and exchanged contracts on 20 July 2022. They had to borrow 
from family and use credit cards to make up the deposit and cover costs related to the 
purchase.Mr E and Miss L were relying on the bonus to make up their deposit. The fact that they 
asked MAB about this on more than one occasion shows they were concerned about it. If 
MAB had told them it didnt know, or couldnt advise, whether they met the criteria and they 
needed to check this with the solicitor I think theyd have done so. Mr E and Miss L would 
have still needed to find money to make up the shortfall in the deposit. But theyd have had 
more time to plan how theyd do so. 
Mr E and Miss L werent unable to claim the help to buy ISA scheme bonus due to an error 
by MAB  they didnt meet the scheme criteria because of the property they bought. Mr E 
and Miss L went ahead with the purchase after being told they couldnt claim the bonus. I 
dont think I can fairly find theyd have made a different decision if theyd been told this in 
April 2022. While theyd been paying into the ISAs for some time, this money wasnt lost.
I dont think Mr E and Miss L were caused financial loss. And they were always going to 
have to find funds to make up the shortfall in the deposit. But I think finding out shortly before 
exchange that they had to find about £4,000 would have caused them upset, worry and 
inconvenience. This could have been avoided  or at least reduced  if MAB had told them 
earlier in the process to check with the solicitor whether they could claim the bonus. For the 
additional worry MABs error caused, I think its fair and reasonable to require MAB to pay 
£100 to Mr E and Miss L. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay 
£100 to Mr E and Miss L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman