DRN-3857934
The complaint
Mr W says advice given by St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc (SJP) about his 
pension arrangements was unsuitable and led to him incurring a higher Lifetime Allowance 
(LTA) tax charge and being unable to access his pension funds in a tax efficient manner. He 
also says he wasnt informed hed incur an early withdrawal charge (EWC) if he moved away 
from SJP within six years. 
What happened
In 2021, following advice from SJP, Mr W transferred the value of his benefits in two former 
employers defined benefit pension schemes to a Retirement Account with SJP. At the time 
Mr W was living and working abroad. 
In April 2022 Mr W complained to SJP that the advice had been unsuitable as insufficient 
consideration was given to the possibility that hed continue to live abroad and hed be able 
to take retirement benefits tax free. Mr W also said the LTA hadnt been fully explained and 
hed now found there was a LTA charge which, if hed have known about it, may have meant 
he wouldnt have transferred. He also said the adviser hadnt understood his assumed 
expenditure in retirement and a more realistic figure wouldve been higher. 
SJP didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. SJP referred to Mr Ws discussions with SJPs advisers 
and to what SJPs suitability report had said. In particular it recorded that Mr W intended to 
stop working abroad in 2022 and move back to the UK. And that the two schemes were 
surplus to Mr Ws requirements and hed prefer to invest them for the opportunity of growth. 
The increased LTA liability that would result from the transfers had been highlighted. Mr Ws 
anticipated household income needs were set out several times. 
Mr W had signed a pension transfer summary report to confirm he intended to follow the 
advice and which referred to the reasons given in the suitability report. It was fair to expect 
Mr W to have read the report before signing the document and so its reasonable to 
conclude he was happy with the advice given and the information recorded and comfortable 
with the decision hed made to transfer on the basis of the information provided. 
SJP offered £100 as an apology for the time it had taken to provide a response to Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Mr W referred his complaint to us. On his complaint from he said hed been advised to 
transfer his defined benefit pensions without a full discussion about the tax impact of 
breaching the LTA and also the implications as he works abroad. And it hadnt been pointed 
out to him that he was locked into SJP for six years otherwise hed incur severe penalties. 
He was now unable to start drawing on his pension without tax liabilities and he couldnt 
move his pension to another provider.  
Mr Ws complaint was investigated by one of our investigators. As both parties have seen 
her view Im not going to repeat here all the investigator said. But she referred to the 
documentation shed seen and, in particular, to the confidential financial review (or fact find). 
It set out Mr Ws circumstances at the time (late 2020/early 2021) including his income and 
anticipated annual bonus, his future plans and expected income needs in retirement. The 
investigator also referred to the suitability report and quoted extracts from it. Amongst other 
things, she noted there was a section about the LTA which recorded Mr W had Fixed 
Protection 2014 (which gave him a protected LTA of £1.5 million). The EWC had also been 
set out. 
The investigator didnt think the advice was unsuitable. She recognised a lot of paperwork 
had been given to Mr W. But it wasnt unreasonable to expect the information to have been 
considered and, if anything wasnt correct or was unclear, for that to have been queried. A 
report summary had also been provided. It seemed that Mr W had confirmed, more than 
once, that he didnt require access to his defined benefit pension schemes and he didnt 
anticipate having to draw on his pension.  
In response Mr W said the information provided by SJP was confusing and the report was 
poorly written. Hed relied heavily on verbal communications with the adviser and which 
werent reflected in the report or the investigators findings. In consequence hed incurred an 
increased LTA and he was unable to access his pension funds in a tax efficient way and 
without paying a large charge to SJP. He said SJP had failed to take into account his 
residency status which, combined with the contract, had left him in a worse position. He was 
aware of the regulators requirement that a recommendation to transfer should only be made 
if the adviser believed the clients financial objectives can best be achieved by transferring. 
Mr W didnt think the adviser had met that standard. 
Mr Ws current adviser also commented. He said the suitability report was generic and not 
based on Mr Ws actual circumstances. Mr W had signed the paperwork but on an 
assumption of integrity on the part of his adviser which was unfortunately misplaced. It 
seemed unfair, having decided to move away from SJP, that Mr W would have to pay a large 
EWC and when hed already paid SJP significant fees (more than £25,000 over two years). 
Mr W had told SJP they wouldnt be managing his assets anymore. So they were now being 
paid for not doing any work just because Mr W was in a contract he couldnt get out of. As a 
minimum the adviser hoped that something could be done about the EWC so Mr W could 
leave SJP now and without it costing him a further £100,000  he wants to withdraw his 
entire pension now as an overseas resident. 
The investigator considered Mr Ws and his advisers further comments but she wasnt 
persuaded to change her view. She told Mr W and SJP that the complaint would be referred 
to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and with the reasons she gave as to why the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Essentially Mr Ws complaint is that SJP gave him unsuitable advice to transfer the value of 
his two defined benefit pension schemes. I note Mr Ws referral to the regulators position. 
Here Mr W is referring to COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.6.1G which gives 
guidance on assessing suitability and includes the following: 
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.And: 
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in 
the retail clients best interests.
Those provisions applied to Mr W. His two defined benefit pension schemes meant he was a 
member of two pension schemes with safeguarded benefits. 
Subsection (4) then goes on to set out the factors a firm should take into account to 
demonstrate suitability and that the transfer (convert or opt-out) is in the clients best 
interests. Im not going to set out all the factors here but they include the clients intentions 
for accessing pension benefits and the clients realistic retirement income needs and who 
they can be achieved. 
In considering if SJPs advice was suitable Ive borne in mind all those provisions. SJP has 
to be able to demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests. 
While there may be some dispute as to exactly what was said and if the recommendations 
and their impact on Mr W were discussed in sufficient detail, the fact find and suitability letter 
are contemporary evidence as to the basis on which the recommendations were made. As 
such, those documents are, in my view, key. 
I think its clear that the advisers recorded understanding was Mr Ws overall financial 
position was such that he wouldnt be reliant on the two defined benefit schemes and he was 
unlikely to need to draw on them. The fact find records, amongst other things, that Mr W had 
no real retirement age as such and that he could hopefully leave the pensions to grow with 
no need to draw on them. Thats reflected in the suitability report which describes the 
benefits from the two defined benefit schemes as surplus to requirements and that Mr W 
would prefer to invest for growth to use if required or left as a legacy. 
Its also clear from the suitability letter that death benefits, legacy creation and flexibility for 
Mr Ws beneficiaries were important. It was recorded that he wanted to secure a legacy for 
his dependents and as the pensions didnt form part of his estate he could leave the funds to 
his wife and children free of inheritance tax and theyd have flexibility as to what they did with 
the funds. 
I understand Mr Ws position is that at the time of the advice his plans were uncertain. He 
said in his letter of complaint that when SJPs advice was given he was resident abroad and 
he had no idea of when he might return to the UK. But the suitability letter suggests his plans 
were somewhat more definite and that he intended to stop working abroad in 2022 and 
move back to the UK. Mr W has said, and I accept, he was given a lot of paperwork to 
consider. Although I can understand if he didnt perhaps read all of the supporting 
documentation such as all the appendices, the suitability report was central. 
From what Ive seen, the recommendations were made on the basis the adviser understood 
that Mr W would be returning to the UK in 2022. Thats the first reason given for the 
recommendation (on page 9 of the suitability report). Mr Ws plans for continuing to work are 
set out, although its acknowledged theres some uncertainty about that. But its clear the 
report reflects what the adviser understood was Mr Ws intention to return to the UK in 2022. 
It may be that Mr Ws plans have since changed. But what Im looking at is the basis on 
which the advice was given. I dont see there was any real need for the adviser to give detailed further consideration to what Mr Ws position would be if he continued to live abroad 
when the adviser understood Mr W had a settled intention to return to the UK in 2022. Mr W 
says he trusted the adviser and he now feels that was misplaced. But I dont immediately 
see why the adviser would record anything in the suitability report which he didnt 
understand Mr Ws position to be and which Mr W could immediately challenge. 
While the starting point, when considering if advice to transfer is suitable, is that most people 
would likely be better off keeping a defined benefit pension, a transfer might be suitable in 
some cases. Like the investigator, I dont think SJPs advice was unsuitable on the basis on 
which it was given and what SJPs adviser understood about Mr Ws financial and other 
circumstances and his objectives, including his future plans. I think SJP did comply with its 
obligations under DISP 19.1.6G (4) in taking into account the factors set out in assessing the 
suitability of a transfer for Mr W and reaching the view that a transfer was in his best 
interests.  
I note that consideration was given in the report to the LTA and LTA calculations were 
enclosed. Mr W was warned that his LTA liability would increase as a result of the transfers. 
The amount of the LTA charge (55% if taken as a lump sum and 25% if taken as income) 
were set out. 
The report is also clear that Mr Ws anticipated income needs in retirement were £48,000 to 
£72,000 pa. I know Mr W has said that understated his estimated required income. But the 
report was clear. If, on reflection, Mr W thought his income needs would be more he couldve 
pointed that out. 
I know Mr W thinks having to pay the EWC is unfair. Although hes said he wasnt made 
aware of it, as the investigator noted, the EWC was set out in the suitability letter  it said the 
product the adviser had recommended (the SJP Retirement Account) was subject to an 
EWC. I think how the EWC worked was set out. In particular the letter said withdrawals in 
excess of the Annual Withdrawal Allowance (AWA) would attract an EWC. The amount of 
the EWC was also clearly stated  6% in the first year, reducing annually by 1%, so 
applicable over a six year period in all. 
And the Full Advice  Report Summary that Mr W signed (in several places) on 11 January 
2021 set out the charges hed pay if he transferred to the SJP Retirement Account. The 
EWC (6% in the first year reducing by 1% each year) is shown as an additional charge for 
both transfers. The monetary amounts that Mr W would pay if he left in the first year were 
also shown (although I think the charge Mr W would have to pay is higher, presumably 
because of other funds transferred to SJP). 
   
Id assume that other documents (for example, the key features document) Mr W was given 
would also have referred to the EWC. But, in any event, the suitability report did draw the 
EWC to Mr Ws attention. In the circumstances I dont think SJP is acting unfairly by applying 
the EWC if Mr W wishes to move away from SJP. 
From what Mr W has said it seems he could make changes to his arrangements on the basis 
that he has continued to live and work abroad. But that would mean hed have to pay the 
EWC. I can understand his reluctance to incur that level of penalty. But I cant say that SJPs 
advice was unsuitable or that there was a failure to disclose the EWC so it follows I cant say 
that SJP should waive the EWC. 
I note Mr Ws comments about the £100 offered. But Id point out that was just for any 
distress and inconvenience resulting from the time SJP took to provide its response to the 
complaint. I think its fair and reasonable. Im not sure if its been paid but if not and Mr W 
now wants to accept it he should contact SJP direct.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman