DRN-2444110
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the service provided by U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct 
Line) when she made a claim following a road accident in which she was injured.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The following facts are not in dispute:
Mrs L was involved in a non-fault road accident
Direct Line arranged and completed the repairs to Mrs Ls car.
What is disputed is whether Direct Line have done enough to support Mrs L through the 
process of her personal injury claim, which is still ongoing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator 
for these reasons:
Direct Line dealt with the damage to Mrs Ls car, and the repair was dealt with 
satisfactorily. 
Direct Line referred Mrs L to a legal firm [X] who would progress her claim for 
personal injury against the other drivers insurer.
When X wasnt progressing matters as quickly as Mrs L wanted, Direct Line sought 
updates from X on her behalf. 
Direct Line put in place an aftercare service for Mrs L once their case had closed, 
and agreed to update her every two weeks.
These updates continued until Direct Line were informed that a new legal firm had 
been appointed by X to take Mrs Ls claim forward. Direct Line told Mrs L this, and 
asked X to also contact her.
Any delays in progressing the personal injury claim were not the responsibility of 
Direct Line
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ls frustrations at the length of time her claim 
is taking, I dont uphold her complaint.  Im satisfied that Direct Line has supported Mrs L 
sufficiently during the personal injury claim process and it wouldnt be fair to hold it 
responsible for the delays. 
If Mrs L is unhappy with the quality of the legal services provided by either of the solicitors 
involved in the claim, she may be able to take her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman 
Service. 
My final decision
I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman