DRN-3821092
The complaint
Miss G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mishandled its recovery of funds lent to her under a 
Bounce Back Loan, and in particular that it incorrectly advised her that she was entitled to 
money held in her account that it subsequently used to repay a debt.
What happened
Miss G banked with Lloyds, holding a number of personal and savings accounts. 
In June 2020, Miss G successfully applied to the bank for a £50,000 loan under the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme, which had recently been launched by the government to help small 
businesses cope with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. On receipt of the loan, Miss G 
paid around £10,000 to her savings account, and proceeded to use the remainder for 
personal expenditure including the purchase of Premium Bonds and the repayment of credit 
card debts with other providers.
Following a review of the loan application and use of the funds, Lloyds concluded that 
Miss G had provided inaccurate information when applying  in particular declaring a 
turnover in excess of £200,000 to qualify for the £50,000 loan  and then hadnt used the 
funds for business purposes as required. So the bank terminated the loan agreement and 
sought to recover what funds it could from Miss Gs accounts. 
Lloyds recovered around £10,000 from Miss Gs savings account and around £11,000 from 
her personal account  with the remainder having been spent, and therefore remaining 
outstanding. However, the bank didnt apply the £10,000 recovered from Miss Gs savings 
account to the Bounce Back Loan debt as intended. So when the debt was subsequently 
transferred to a debt collection agency, they advised Miss G that the amount owing was 
around £39,000. 
This caused the sequence of events that are at the heart of Miss Gs complaint. On being 
told that she owed £39,000, Miss G called Lloyds in June 2021 to query things with the 
£10,000 from her savings account seemingly unaccounted for. While that query was under 
investigation, Miss G received an account statement that showed an overdrawn balance of 
£16,000. And when calling the bank to query this, she says she was told that the account 
was actually in credit by £10,000  and that she was entitled to withdraw this. But the bank 
then changed its position and said that the funds couldnt be withdrawn and would be 
applied to the debt owed by Miss G on the Bounce Back Loan.
Miss G doesnt believe Lloyds was entitled to reclaim the £10,000 funds in the manner it did, 
as these didnt originate from the loan  which had since been transferred to a debt 
collection agency with an agreed debt of £39,000. And she says that she acted in reliance 
on Lloyds assurance that she would be able to utilise the funds and has been left worse off 
as a result, as she spent money on a holiday and a new car that she otherwise would not 
have done. The money that she spent had previously been earmarked for urgent home 
improvements, so she was then unable to complete that work. And she says that the whole 
situation has caused her significant distress, impacting her mental and physical health.
In response to Miss Gs complaint, Lloyds accepted that there were some areas where it had 
let her down. The bank acknowledged errors in its handling of the £10,000 in Miss Gs 
savings account, which it hadnt properly applied to the Bounce Back Loan debt initially. It 
agreed that it had given poor service in light of that, which included incorrectly telling Miss G 
that she could access the funds. But it said that, ultimately, the £10,000 was rightly applied 
to the loan debt. For the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in its 
service, Lloyds paid Miss G compensation of £750.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. I said:
I understand that Miss G doesnt dispute Lloyds entitlement to cancel and recall the 
Bounce Back Loan in light of her apparent ineligibility for it, so Im not going to 
comment on that in any detail here other than to confirm my view that the bank did 
nothing wrong in taking these actions in the circumstances.
Once recalled, the £50,000 loan was repayable immediately. Under the terms and 
conditions of both the loan agreement and Miss Gs accounts with the bank, Lloyds 
had the right of set off. In other words, it was entitled to use any funds that Miss G 
held in accounts with the bank to repay any debts it was owed. So Lloyds didnt do 
anything wrong when initially removing the funds held in Miss Gs current and 
savings accounts in order to pay down the amount she owed under the Bounce Back 
Loan agreement.
The £10,000 that was removed from Miss Gs savings account wasnt applied to the 
debt at the time. Miss G argues that the delay  and the matters that superseded it, 
including the transfer of the debt to a debt collection agency  mean that the bank no 
longer had the right to use these funds to pay down the loan debt. But I dont think 
the delay or any of the subsequent events ought fairly to remove Lloyds entitlement 
to recover the funds that had been illegitimately obtained and utilised  particularly as 
the savings account balance was comprised almost entirely of funds transferred from 
the Bounce Back Loan. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when declining to 
release the £10,000 to Miss G subsequently, and instead using this to reduce the 
amount she owed under the loan agreement.
There was clearly an error on Lloyds part in failing to apply the £10,000 to the loan 
debt when first removed from Miss Gs savings account  which was subsequently 
moved to her business account. Miss Gs main cause for concern is the subsequent 
conversations she had with Lloyds about the funds, which she says led her to believe 
that the money would be returned to her. So Ive carefully considered what she and 
Lloyds have said and provided to us about these interactions, which has included 
listening to recordings of a number of the telephone conversations between them. 
Having done so, I dont think it was reasonable for Miss G to believe that the £10,000 
in question would be made available to her. I say this because:
Ive not found that Lloyds explicitly confirmed to Miss G that the £10,000 at 
issue would be released to her. On discovering that the £10,000 hadnt been 
applied to the loan debt, Miss G asked Lloyds on 18 June 2021 whether it 
would release the funds to her  and was told that wouldnt be possible. A 
complaint was raised in order for the position to be confirmed.While the complaint was pending, Miss G is told on a couple of occasions 
between 10 and 12 July 2021 that she had a credit balance of £10,000 and  
separately  that it should be possible to transfer a credit balance to other 
account. But those conversations were somewhat hypothetical, in that Miss G 
didnt share the full context or ask an explicit question as to whether she was 
entitled to the funds in light of the Bounce Back Loan situation. And the 
advisers she spoke with were evidently unaware of the loan debt and related 
issues when responding to her fairly generic queries. Ultimately, when  at 
the end of each of those calls  it came to attempting the transfer of funds 
that Miss G was seeking, she was told by each adviser that they were unable 
to complete it and was referred on to other departments for advice.
Miss G was made aware on 12 July that she needed to speak to the banks 
business team. And by Miss Gs own admission, that conversation ended on 
the basis that the adviser would need to review the notes on her account and 
call her back to proceed further. Matters were then superseded by Miss Gs 
call to the complaints team on 13 July, when she was advised that the funds 
were being withheld and ringfenced for the loan debt, and that it was unlikely 
theyd be released to her. Miss G was evidently aware by 17 July that the 
funds had been applied to the loan debt.
Miss G would also have been aware that the £10,000 in question had been 
removed in connection with the termination and recall of the Bounce Back 
Loan, that the funds originated from her misuse of that loan and that she still 
owed around £29,000 under that agreement. So I think it is reasonable to 
suggest that she wouldve had some cause to suspect that the bank might not 
be willing to release these funds to her.
As I dont think it was down to an error on Lloyds part that Miss G believed she 
would be receiving the £10,000 in question, it follows that I dont think the bank is 
responsible for the consequences of any actions that Miss G took while under this 
impression. And so while Im sorry to read of the impact that these matters have had 
on her, Im not intending to require the bank to compensate her for the losses that 
shes claimed.
Lloyds has already paid Miss G compensation of £750 for the impact of errors in its 
handling of the matter. The failure to apply the £10,000 to the loan debt when first 
removed caused, and was compounded by, a number of further errors  most 
notably:
Miscommunication over the outstanding debt that Miss G owed  quoted as 
£50,000 in the initial demand, and then £39,000 when with the debt collection 
agency. 
A delay in properly closing Miss Gs accounts, with residual (but nominal) 
balances being held for longer than necessary and correspondence about the 
accounts continuing to be issued.
Writing to Miss G to advise she was overdrawn by £16,000, which was 
patently wrong. 
All of this meant Miss G was engaged in unnecessary additional contact and 
correspondence with the bank. While I recognise that this wouldve caused Miss G 
some understandable concern and inconvenience, taking all of the circumstances into account I think the £750 that Lloyds has already paid represents fair 
compensation. Im therefore not intending to require the bank to take any further 
action in response to this complaint.
Miss G didnt accept my provisional decision, but didnt respond with any further information 
for me to take into account. Lloyds confirmed it had nothing further to add either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me take into account, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. So this final decision simply confirms my 
provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman