DRN-4255948
The complaint
Mrs L complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds service when she claimed under her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ls car was damaged when another car crashed into it and the other driver( the third 
party) failed to stop. Tesco declared that her car was uneconomical to repair and paid her an 
amount for its market value. 
Mrs L said that Tesco still pursued her for the premium payments, delayed dealing with her 
claim, wrongly recorded it as a fault claim, didnt give her a courtesy car, and disclosed her 
details to lawyers without their permission. She wanted compensation for this. 
The investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He thought Tesco had acted 
reasonably and in line with Mrs Ls policy. Mrs L didnt agree and so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. Her complaint was brought by her husband. 
Mrs L is also unhappy about what Tesco paid for her car after they declared it uneconomical 
to repair. I dont deal with that here because, as the investigator has explained, that matter 
was a separate complaint to Tesco. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls policy states that If the car is written of or declared a total loss, we will not refund 
any premium. If you are paying by instalments your full annual premium remains payable. 
So as the investigator explained, it isnt unfair of Tesco to expect Mrs L to pay the balance of 
her annual premium. Thats because Tesco insured Mrs L and paid her claim under her 
policy in return for the full annual premium. Mrs L was simply paying that annual premium by 
instalments under a credit agreement, so she does still owe Tesco the remaining amount.
I also see from her policy that Tesco have to provide a courtesy car while a damaged car is 
being repaired but not if they declare it uneconomical to repair. Thats normal in the 
insurance industry and we dont think its unfair. As thats what happened here, Tesco 
werent obliged to provide a courtesy car.  
Tesco calling it a fault claim doesnt mean that they think that Mrs L ( or her husband) 
caused the incident or that it was their fault. Its called a fault claim if the insurer cant 
recover their claim costs from the third party or their insurer. Thats what has happened here 
because the third party left the scene and couldnt be located. Tesco havent been able to 
recover their costs, so its not unreasonable for them to record her claim as fault. Making an 
insurance claim, fault or not, may well impact premium cost on renewal. However, as the 
investigator told Mrs L, there may be other reasons for a premium increase. So if Mrs L is 
unhappy with the premium she would need to take that up with Tesco as a separate 
complaint.   
Mrs L thought that Tesco delayed investigating her claim, including around obtaining CCTV 
footage potentially identifying the third partys car. I see that Tesco did try to obtain relevant 
CCTV footage. They wrote to an organisation and to the police and also spoke to a witness. 
But unfortunately this didnt help identify the third partys car. 
Mrs L complained that Tesco wrote to the wrong place and didnt do it quickly enough, and 
so it was their fault that CCTV footage was no longer available. However I dont think its fair 
to assume that CCTV footage of the incident wouldve been available at the location of the 
incident and that it wouldve shown the incident and have conclusively identified the third 
partys car. Indeed the police confirmed that they would not look for that CCTV footage, and 
that they generally dont look for CCTV footage in these situations, as they think it doesnt 
usually show cars registrations. Its also not fair to assume that if Tesco had asked earlier 
that footage of the third party car would definitely have been available at the other location 
Mrs L provided, or that it would have conclusively identified the third party car. I think that 
Tesco asked the organisations within a reasonable time after Mrs L reported the incident to 
them. So I think Tesco did enough to investigate the claim. 
 
Mrs L complained that Tesco sold their details to claims lawyers who called her soon after 
shed reported the incident to Tesco. But Tesco explained that Mrs Ls policy included legal 
cover. And that where, as here, there was likely to be an issue with recovery of third party 
costs or there was personal injury reported, Tesco would instruct lawyers as soon as they 
received report of the incident. 
The lawyers contacted Mrs L the day after shed made the report. She was surprised to hear 
from them. Tesco apologised for not warning Mrs L they would do that. But Tesco did 
explain it to her and reassured her that theyd instructed the lawyers and why, and that they 
hadnt sold them her details. This was the next day after Mrs L had made the report. I think 
that was reasonable of Tesco.
Mrs L remained unhappy. She said Tesco disclosed her information to the lawyers without 
her consent. But Mrs Ls policy in section M describes that it provides cover for legal costs 
and expenses to pursue a claim for compensation in respect of uninsured losses or personal 
injury arising from a road traffic accident for which another party is at fault, and that on a 
claim  we will appoint one of our panel of solicitors, or their agents, to handle your case. 
So I think that Tesco had the right to do this under the policy and didnt need Mrs Ls 
permission before doing so. I also see that Tesco did it with the good intention of trying to 
help Mrs L with their claim, and potentially recover compensation for her, so I think that was 
fair. As the investigator noted, if Mrs L thinks Tesco made a data protection breach, she can 
refer that to the Information Commissioners Office. And if Mrs L felt the lawyers contacted 
her at an unsociable time thats something she could take up with the insurer of the legal 
protection part of her policy , as the investigator has explained. 
I think its unfortunate that Mrs Ls husband was involved in a distressing incident, which they  
think wasnt an accident but a deliberate act by the third party. I can see that it must be very 
frustrating that the third party hasnt been identified. And its upsetting that theyve been put 
to this trouble through no fault of their own. However, Im looking here at Tescos actions in 
dealing with the claim, and for the reasons above I dont think that they have done anything 
wrong. This means that I dont require them to do anything else. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
