DRN-4074060
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to refund a payment he disputed 
within the advised timescale.
What happened
Mr N complained to Nationwide after a refund for a payment dispute was delayed. Mr N says 
he was advised the refund would be issued within 48 hours - hes unhappy that it took much 
longer.
In its response, although Nationwide agreed it contributed to a delay, it didnt agree that it 
had provided the incorrect timescale. The bank identified that it didnt gather all the 
information it needed during Mr Ns initial call about the dispute. Nationwide also pointed out 
that Mr N replied to the wrong email address when the bank contacted him for the missing 
information. Because of the delay caused by this, Nationwide offered Mr N £25 
compensation.
Remaining unhappy, Mr N asked this service to review his complaint. Our investigator 
decided that Nationwide had offered a fair resolution. Mr N didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Nationwide has offered a fair resolution to Mr Ns 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the relevant initial call, during which Mr N says he was advised hed receive a 
refund for the payment dispute within 48 hours. However, it seems the advisor Mr N spoke to 
informed him that a decision would be made within 48 hours, not that an actual refund would 
be issued. So I dont agree that Mr N was wrongly advised.
Nationwide points out that its advisor shouldve gathered all the required information during 
this call. Because this wasnt carried out, the bank had to follow up with an email to Mr N 
requesting the information that was needed. Nationwide accepts that this error caused a 
short delay and meant that the payment dispute wasnt progressed until after Mr N called for 
an update a few days later  which was after the 48 hours had passed. 
Nationwide recognises that compensation for the inconvenience it caused Mr N is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint. The bank offered Mr N £25. Although Mr N wants more 
compensation, I think this amount is a reasonable way to resolve this complaint. The error 
seems to have been minor and it doesnt appear as though Mr N was inconvenienced to a 
degree that would make me think more compensation is due. So I wont be asking 
Nationwide to pay anything more.
Moreover, I can see that Nationwide emailed Mr N promptly, asking for the information it 
needed from him. So although the bank contributed to a short delay, Im satisfied that it took 
steps to gather the information it needed, so that Mr Ns payment dispute would progress as 
quickly impossible.
Unfortunately, Mr N seems to have replied to the wrong email address. I can see he called 
Nationwide a few days after the dispute was raised. Nationwide was able to help Mr N and 
get his payment dispute claim progressing again, so I dont find that the bank did anything 
wrong here.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr N wasnt misadvised about the timescale he was expected 
to receive a refund by. Nationwide has also put forward a fair offer to Mr N, compensating for 
the impact of its error. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman