DRN-2019804
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited's valuation of his car after they 
said it was a total loss following an accident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H's policy says that when paying a cash sum for a car, the most Admiral will pay 
is the market value for that car. And when calculating this, Admiral told Mr H they 
used trade guides, while taking into account the condition of the car just before Mr 
H's accident.
Our service would expect an insurer to use trade guides in the way Admiral said they 
did when determining the value of a car. And when coming to a final valuation, we 
would expect that amount to be within the range of the values provided by the 
guides. We wouldn't say the valuation has to be an average from the guides 
checked.
Admiral has confirmed the valuations obtained from the trade guides, and we've 
checked the results ourselves. Having done that, the amount Admiral offered is within 
the range of values generated for a car like Mr H's, just before his accident. So, I'm 
satisfied the valuation is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr H is seeing like-for-like cars being sold for a higher price. However, 
that isn't unusual given mark-ups normally added to the price of cars, or prices that 
give dealers a margin for negotiation.
Mr H has said increasing the value by £300 would be very helpful to enable him to 
buy a new car and get back on the road. I fully appreciate a higher valuation would 
be beneficial for Mr H, but it wouldn't be reasonable for me to tell Admiral to increase 
their offer when I am satisfied the amount they've paid has been calculated fairly.
 
I understand this isn't the answer Mr H hoped for, but for the reasons above, I do not uphold 
Mr H's case.
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr H's complaint about Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman