DRN-3900230
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In short, Miss T fell victim to a safe account scam. On 3 September 2022, she received a 
text from Revolut that appeared in her existing text communication chain with Revolut. The 
text provided an authentication code and advised that if Miss T hadnt requested the code to 
reply N. Miss T who hadnt requested it and thinking it was her genuine bank, replied N. 
Shortly after, Miss T was called on what she thought was Revoluts genuine telephone 
number. Unfortunately the number had been spoofed. Miss T says she was advised that her 
accounts with Revolut and with another banking provider were at risk and that she needed to 
move her money into her Revolut account and then from there on to a safe account.
Miss T spoke with whom she believed to be an adviser from Revolut and also an adviser 
from her other banking provider. Miss T, believing things to be genuine, ended up moving 
her savings with her other bank provider into her Revolut account. From there, Miss T made 
two payments in quick succession to the beneficiary details provided by the scammer. 
The first payment was for £45 and the second payment was for £9,745. Miss T realised she 
was the victim of a scam shortly after, when her account which was supposedly meant to 
have been reset and showing her funds didnt materialise. In total, Miss T lost £9,790.
Miss T then reported the matter to Revolut to see if it could help recover her funds. Revolut 
logged the matter that evening and contacted the receiving firm (the bank where Miss T had 
sent the funds to) on 5 September 2022 to see if any funds remained that could be 
recovered. 
While awaiting a response from the receiving firm, Revolut also informed Miss T that as she 
had authorised the transfers, it wasnt responsible for the loss. Revolut explained it identified 
the second transfer as an out of character transaction and set it to pending. It advised it 
asked the purpose of the payment and provided a warning about common scams. Revolut 
explained that while it has a duty to protect customers money it also has an obligation to 
execute its customers instructions to make payments. It considered that in Miss Ts case it 
had fulfilled both.
Ultimately £54 was recovered and returned to Miss T on 7 December 2022.
Unhappy that she hadnt been refunded all her money, Miss T referred the matter to our 
service. One of our Investigators looked into Miss Ts complaint. Broadly summarised, she 
considered while Miss T had authorised the transfers (albeit while being tricked); Revolut 
should have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud or financial harm.
Our Investigator, when looking at the transfers Miss T made, considered the first transfer of 
£45, while to a new payee, wasnt remarkable. So she thought it wasnt unreasonable for the 
transfer not to flag as suspicious to Revolut. But she thought the second transfer of £9,745, 
should have flagged. She said this because it was another payment made to the same 
beneficiary in quick succession and was of an increasing amount. It was also a large amount 
and was more than Miss T had transferred previously and nearly emptied her account 
completely. 
Our Investigator thought Revolut should have done more than it did to intervene on the 
second transfer, and it should have contacted Miss T about it. It was our Investigators view 
that, had it done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss 
wouldve been prevented. 
Our Investigator therefore thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She 
recommended Revolut refund Miss T for the second transfer of £9,745 (taking into account 
the £54 that had been recovered). She also recommended Revolut pay additional interest on 
that amount at the savings account rate that the funds had originated from. Our Investigator 
considered had the scam been prevented, Miss T wouldnt have moved her funds from the 
savings account  so this would return her into the position, as far as is possible, had the 
scam been prevented.  
Miss T accepted the Investigators findings, but Revolut disagreed. 
Broadly summarised Revolut considered that it had identified the second transfer as out of 
character and asked Miss T the purpose of the payment. It said that Miss T chose the wrong 
payment purpose  choosing goods and services as opposed to safe account  so it 
considered Miss T should share some responsibility for the loss. Revolut also considered 
that had it intervened further, as Miss T was being guided by professional scammers, then it 
it was unlikely that Miss T would have been truthful. So it considered it wouldnt have been 
able to prevent Miss T from making the payment.
Our Investigator disagreed and remained of the opinion that had Revolut had better 
intervention the scam would have been revealed. They thought that had Miss T been told by 
Revolut about being asked to move money or been told that Revolut wouldnt contact her to 
ask her to move money, then Miss T would have likely questioned what was going on and 
wouldnt have made the payment. The Investigator remained of the opinion that the second 
transfer could have been prevented by Revolut.
Revolut disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a determination. So as the matter 
hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
It is the case that Miss T authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Miss T is responsible for them. That remains the case 
even though Miss T was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss T when she made the two transfers to a new 
payee, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Did Revolut act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
When Miss T made the first transfer of £45 to the scammer, there wasnt anything unusual 
or remarkable about the transfer or the amount that ought to have alerted Revolut to the 
possibility Miss T was being scammed. It was a low value transfer and Miss T had made 
similar transfers of similar value before. So I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have 
not flagged as potentially suspicious to Revolut. 
But I am mindful that a common theme to a scam - especially a safe account scam  is that 
a scammer tries to gain as much money from unsuspecting victims as is possible. So where 
there are multiple payments or transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible 
indication to a bank or building society that their customer could be at risk of financial harm. 
The first transfer Miss T made was for £45 and the second transfer was for £9,745. So it 
was another transfer to the same payee in quick succession and importantly the amount 
had also increased significantly, nearly clearing Miss Ts account completely. I think the 
second transfer should have given Revolut a concern that its customer may be at risk of 
financial harm. So Im persuaded that when Miss T made the second transfer which was large in value to 
the same payee in a short space of time her account activity was unusual and out of 
character. I think Revolut should reasonably have taken additional steps and made 
additional checks before processing the second transfer. 
Revolut argues that it did identify the second transfer as out of character for Miss T and set 
the transfer to pending and asked Miss T about the purpose of the payment through its app. 
Revolut says Miss T selected goods and services  which was the wrong option as there 
was an option to select safe account. It considers that had Miss T selected the more 
appropriate option in safe account then she would have seen a warning in relation to those 
types of scams. 
When a risk is identified, the steps a Firm can take to intervene to satisfy itself that its 
customer isnt at risk of financial harm are its own commercial decision. So the question I 
must consider is whether Revolut took appropriate action in responding to the risk of 
financial harm it had identified?
Did Revolut take appropriate action in responding to the risk of financial harm it had 
identified?
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers to take responsibility for their own 
decisions  and possibly even bear a reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of 
blame on their own part (see below). But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond 
proportionately  and that might simply include, for example, a phone call, in app chat or 
discreet conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
In this case, I think the second transfer should have put Revolut on notice that its customer 
was at potential risk of financial harm. The second transfer which was considerable in its 
amount, nearly emptied Miss Ts account and that was made shortly after the first transfer 
had all the hallmarks of Miss T potentially falling victim of a scam.
I consider that asking the payment purpose wasnt enough in this case and more 
intervention was required. I say this because it isnt uncommon in scams (such as a safe 
account scam) for the customer to be guided through the payment journey by a scammer. 
And without proactive steps to break the spell of scammers, customers will often proceed 
with the payment they are making. They are unaware that they are caught up in the scam. 
And when sophisticated elements such as number spoofing are involved, then the scam 
becomes significantly more persuasive. A warning is unlikely to have the required impact on 
a customer that has been manipulated into action through a combination of sophisticated 
means and fear and who is being guided through the payment journey by a scammer. 
So, when I take into account the risk Revolut had identified, I consider it should have 
intervened more than it did to satisfy itself that its customer wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Direct contact with Miss T would likely have made the difference here. And I think that would 
be a proportionate response in the circumstances  given the risk it had identified. That 
intervention might have come in the form of Revolut contacting Miss T directly, or by 
requiring her to contact Revolut herself to speak to a member of staff before being able to 
proceed.Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Revolut made enquiries with 
Miss T (such as an in-app chat or phone call) before processing the transfer. 
There is obviously a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting that Miss T should have been
subjected to an interrogation by Revolut. But Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have 
satisfied itself that Miss T hadnt fallen victim to a scam, and Im persuaded it couldve done 
this by asking a few questions of Miss T prior to processing the transfer. 
Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve happened, so Ive thought about what is more 
likely than not to have been the case.
Miss T wasnt given a cover story by the scammer and had only been guided through the 
payment journey and what payment purpose to select. So I disagree that Miss T wouldnt 
have been truthful in any direct communication with Revolut. I think had Revolut contacted 
Miss T to enquire what the payment was for  she would have explained that she had been 
contacted by Revolut and was securing her funds as her account was at risk. 
Revolut would, or should reasonably, have been aware that this scenario fits the 
characteristics of a safe account scam. Firms such as Revolut have actual or constructive 
knowledge of all the main scams, such as this. So it could have explained this type of scam 
to Miss T. If that had happened, I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have 
been broken and that Miss T wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer.
So I think Revolut could have prevented the loss Miss T incurred when she made the second 
transfer. 
Should Miss T bear some responsibility for the loss?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Miss T should bear some responsibility for her loss. Miss T has 
explained and provided evidence to show the text she received that she thought was from 
Revolut. The text appears in the text chain of her genuine communication with Revolut. And 
Miss T has also provided evidence of the telephone numbers and calls she received which 
all appeared genuine (as a result of number spoofing). Miss T says the advisers she spoke 
to all knew details about her and transactions. 
All things considered, Miss T was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. I am satisfied 
she believed she was liaising with her genuine banking providers at the time and didnt 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on 
the particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for 
some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions by Miss T. 
Did Revolut do enough to recover Miss Ts funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether Revolut 
took reasonable steps to recover Miss Ts funds once it was made aware she was the victim 
of a scam. But for completeness, and having looked into this aspect, while Revolut could 
have reasonably acted sooner than it did here, I am mindful that the majority of the funds 
had already been moved on promptly by the scammer  albeit £54 was subsequently 
recovered at a later date.
 Summary 
Overall, I consider when Miss T made the second transfer, her account activity was unusual 
and out of character. Revolut could have done more to prevent the second transfer from 
happening. There was enough going on to suggest that Miss T may well have been in the 
process of being scammed and Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have picked up on 
this. Had it done so and had Revolut contacted Miss T directly and asked some questions to 
challenge the purpose of the transfer, Im persuaded it is more likely than not the scam 
would have come to light, and Miss T wouldnt have lost out on the £9,745 she transferred.
Miss T has explained that money she lost originated from her savings account. And had the 
scam not happened the funds would have remained in that account. So I think it is fair that in 
addition to refunding her outstanding loss, Revolut pay additional interest on that amount at 
the account rate the funds originated on  that being 0.65%. This places Miss T back in the 
position, as far as is possible, that she would have been in had Revolut prevented the 
second transfer  as I consider it should have done.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Miss Ts complaint against Revolut Ltd 
I now direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund £9,691 (that being the sum of £9,745 Miss T lost when she made the second 
transfer, less the £54 that was recovered and subsequently returned to Miss T).
Pay additional interest on that amount at 0.65% (which was the rate of the savings 
account the funds had originated from) calculated from the date Miss T made the 
transfer until the date of settlement.*
*If Revolut Ltd deducts tax from this part of the award it should provide a tax deduction certificate to 
Miss T so she can reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Revolut Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Miss Ts acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman