DRN-3809824
The complaint
Ms C complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited when 
she tried to claim on her home emergency insurance policy. 
Any reference to British Gas in my decision includes the actions of its agents  such as 
engineers carrying out visits or work on their behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms C and British Gas. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have. 
Ms C had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. In July 2020 she had some 
issues with a toilet leaking. British Gas arranged for an engineer to visit Ms Cs property. Ms 
C says the repair caused further damage to her property. Ms C wasnt satisfied the issue 
had been resolved and complained to British Gas about it and the general service received  
including cancelled appointments and the time taken overall. 
British Gas didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint and she referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld, but as British 
Gas didnt accept their recommendations, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision. Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres a difference 
of opinion on whats happened between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened  based on the available evidence. 
Our Service is an evidence based organisation. Ive noted that British Gas were asked 
numerous times to provide evidence to support their position  but instead provided 
incomplete submissions or simply didnt respond until further chasers were sent by our 
investigators. Id remind British Gas that under the relevant DISP rules, theyre obliged to co-
operate with our Service once a complaint that we can consider is referred for our 
consideration. 
The relevant DISP rules for the approach Im taking here are DISP 1.4.4 and DISP 3.5.14:
 Co-operating with the Financial Ombudsman Service 
Where a complaint against a respondent is referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, the respondent must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and comply promptly with any settlements or awards made by it. 
And: If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: 
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and 
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by 
that failure in any award which he decides to make. 
Ive had to rely on the available evidence when coming to my decision. That is - the 
information available to me now, after both parties were given a fair opportunity to provide 
any supporting evidence they wished to rely on to support their position. 
Based on the evidence, I find that: 
The initial remedial/repair works werent completed to an acceptable standard and 
this led to further issues for Ms C. This needs to be rectified. 
British Gas have very poorly dealt with the ongoing issues after the claim  across a 
long period of time  causing avoidable delays. British Gas need to compensate     
Ms C for the service theyve provided Im not persuaded by British Gas defence that 
Ms C didnt engage fully with them to allow the issues to be resolved. From what Ive 
seen, she made a reasonable effort to communicate the issues and try to arrange 
suitable times for visits to happen. 
Its understandable that when her complaint was with our Service, Ms C may not have 
engaged fully with British Gas after that point - as theyd already had sufficient time to try 
and resolve the issues. 
Putting things right
Pay Ms C £350 for any trouble and upset caused by the poor service theyve 
provided and avoidable delays caused. 
Ms C has provided our Service with an independent quote for the cost of the required 
remedial works (arising out of British Gas first repair). Dependant on whether the 
works have been carried out yet or not, British Gas should: 
1. if the repairs haven't happened - arrange a suitable repair, at no cost to Ms C; or 
2. if the repairs have happened - reimburse Ms C, subject to reasonable proof of her     
costs. British Gas should add 8% simple interest to any reimbursement from the date  
Ms C made payment until the date British Gas make payment to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman