DRN-3233608
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains TSB Bank plc didnt close its business bank account when 
it asked them to.
Mr G, a director of B, brings the complaint on its behalf. For simplicity, I will refer to B 
throughout. 
What happened
B has a business current account with TSB. It tried to close the account online but says due 
to technical issues with the system it wasnt able to.
B telephoned TSB and was told it could either visit the local branch or write a letter and post 
it to them. B asked if it could write a letter, scan it, and send it by email, but TSB wasnt able 
to accept its request in this way. B says both options it was given were an inconvenience 
that it shouldnt have to incur. It also complains that TSB continues to charge a £5 monthly 
fee for the period when the account should have been closed.
TSB paid B £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, but the account 
wasnt closed. They said they havent received Bs closure request in the post as such the 
account remains open.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought TSBs offer of 
compensation was fair, and said as we arent the regulators, she couldnt tell TSB to change 
their processes.
B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It says: 
TSB refused the offer to write a letter, scan it and send it by email even though 
legally it is just as acceptable as a posted letter. 
It was told to go to a local branch but when it got there it found the branch had closed 
permanently and it had been when it was told to visit. 
The issue was due to the failing of TSBs electronic system which was clearly not fit 
for purpose.
Since the complaint they have taken all the compensation they paid into the account through 
fees and the account remains open. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons.
TSB acknowledges there were issues with the online closure process, and they paid B £50 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused. B doesnt think this solves the matter and 
would like the fees its been charged since it first requested the closure waived. It would also 
like the account to be closed and the £50 compensation repaid. 
So, what I must decide is whether TSB have done enough to put things right for B. I think 
they have, and Ill explain why. 
Account closure
Firstly, I think its important for me explain that how TSB chooses to structure its account 
closure process is a commercial matter for it to decide internally. It's not something we would 
look to interfere with. But what I have thought about is whether TSB has treated B fairly in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint.
TSB provided us with information on its business account closures process. It shows there 
are two ways in which a business account can be closed. Either, via its online form or by 
completing and sending a postal form. When B couldnt close its account online it was 
advised to either visit the local branch or send its request in the post. While I understand this 
will have caused some inconvenience to B, I dont think its an unreasonable request. 
I appreciate it will have been frustrating to have travelled to the branch only to have found it 
had closed. But I cant hold TSB responsible for this. Ive looked at their notes following their 
conversation with B and I cant see that it was told to visit a specific branch, nor did B ask 
which branch was closest to it. I understand B offered to scan a letter and send it by email, 
but this isnt part of TSBs processes. They are entitled to decide the processes to put in 
place and as this is outside their usual procedures, I dont think its unreasonable that it 
wasnt accepted. 
I accept B may not have been to blame for the issue it faced online but I dont think it means 
TSB needs to act outside their usual processes, especially as there is a suitable alternative 
within the process which is available to B.
 
Account fees
B thinks TSB should refund the fees its been charged since trying to close the account, but I 
dont think it has to. When things go wrong, Id expect a complainant to do what it reasonably 
can to mitigate its losses. And I find B had the option to send its closure request by post but 
chose not to. Considering the nature of its business, I think using the postal service will have 
been a normal and important part of its day to day activities. As such, Im not persuaded that 
sending its closure request by post will have posed much of an inconvenience. And had it 
post the form, I think its account would have been closed and it would not have continued to 
incur the monthly fees. But as the account remains open, I dont find it is unfair or 
unreasonable for TSB to charge B the monthly fee.Compensation
Though the complaint has been brought to us by Mr G, its been brought on behalf of B, 
which is the eligible complainant, and not Mr G. In cases like this, we wouldnt consider 
compensation for distress as the complaint relates to a business, which isnt able to suffer 
upset. But while I cant ask TSB to compensate it for distress, I think B may have had to take 
time out of its normal activity to telephone TSB regarding the system issues and in travelling 
to the local branch which it says it found had closed. TSB paid £50 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience it was caused, and I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate B thinks the bank has taken back the compensation they paid, through the 
account fees they continued to charge to the account, but I dont think they have. The 
compensation was paid into the Bs account, which happens to be the same account the 
fees are charged to, but I find they are separate things. Im satisfied TSB were entitled to 
charge the fee and therefore B needed to make the payment. I cant see that it had made 
alternative arrangements to pay its fees. So, ultimately, I dont think its lost out as a result.
 
However, TSB said they would consider any expenses B incurred because of the difficulties 
encountered in closing the account. I think thats fair in the circumstances of this complaint, 
but I havent seen evidence of additional costs to B. And if there were any, I dont think TSB 
have been made aware of them. Considering the above, I dont think TSB need to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman