DRN-1900993
The complaint
Mr B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) renewed 
his car insurance policy without his agreement. 
References to RSA include its agents. 
What happened
Mr B held insurance cover with RSA for his home and two vehicles. He said hed contacted 
RSA in 2018 to discuss the price of his home and car insurance policies, as hed found a 
more competitive price. He said hed decided to cancel the policies due to this. 
In 2019, Mr B noticed RSA had taken money from his account in 2018 and 2019 for the 
insurance premium for one of his vehicles. So, he raised a complaint. 
RSA said it sent Mr B renewal documents in 2018 and 2019 which stated the policy would 
automatically renew if it didnt receive contact from him. Mr B said this information differed to 
a letter he received in 2015 from RSA regarding another insurance policy. Mr B said the 
letter hed received in 2015 explained he wouldnt be covered if no payment was made, 
rather than explaining it would renew automatically in these circumstances. 
Mr B provided RSA with a document to show the vehicle was covered with a different 
provider in 2018 and 2019. So, RSA refunded the premiums in full that were taken in both 
years. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this service. He said hed taken time and 
effort in going back and forth with RSA to get a refund and to raise a complaint. He thinks 
RSA should compensate him for the mistake it made and include interest. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She said she didnt think on balance RSA 
made an error. As neither Mr B or RSA demonstrated Mr B cancelled the policy, she 
considered the information that was available to her. With that, she said the renewal 
documentation sent to Mr B in 2018 and 2019 clearly stated in her view the policy would 
automatically renew if Mr B didnt make contact. So, she didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said RSA should have a record of the contact he 
made to cancel the policy, and the renewal letters received in 2018 and 2019 differed from 
letter he received in 2015. He remains RSA should compensate him and include interest on 
the refund. So, he asked for an ombudsman to decide the case. Therefore, the case was 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator for broadly similar reasons. I 
appreciate this will come to disappoint Mr B and so Ill explain why. 
Mr B said hed made a call to RSA to cancel the policy 2018. RSA said it doesnt have any 
record of Mr B cancelling the policy, and Mr B hasnt provided evidence of this cancellation 
request either. As neither party has been able to provide this, I must make my decision 
based on the information I do have available to me. 
So Ive gone onto consider the renewal letters RSA said it sent to Mr B in 2018 and 2019. 
Ive checked the address at the heading of the letters from 2018 and 2019 which matches 
the address we hold for Mr B. So, Im satisfied on balance Mr B most likely received these. 
So, Ive gone on to consider the contents of these renewal letters. 
In August 2018, RSA sent a renewal pack to Mr B which said:  
Your renewal payment will automatically be collected from the card shown on your 
Card Payment Schedule. You have the option to opt out of automatic renewal at any 
time during the life of your policy if you dont wish to renew or would like to make 
any changes just call us before your renewal date. 
The renewal letter from August 2019 also stated Mr Bs policy would automatically renew, 
and he had the option to cancel within 14 days from the policy start date should he wish to 
do so. I note the documents also stated Mr B could shop around should he wish to, to find a 
more competitive price. 
With that, I place evidence on these renewal letters most likely received at Mr Bs correct 
address. Im satisfied these clearly stated the instructions Mr B needed to follow should he 
wish to no longer insure his vehicle with it.
Mr B argued the letter hed received in 2015 about renewal on another policy differed to the 
instructions set out in 2018 and 2019s renewal invitations. Mr B said it shouldnt be an 
insurers policy to change its process for renewal invitations. 
I accept the letter from 2015 doesnt state the policy would automatically renew should Mr B 
not make contact or payment. But I dont think that changes anything here. This is because 
Im of the view the renewal packs sent in 2018 and 2019 made it clear the policy would 
renew automatically. And so, I dont think the changes to the information within the renewal 
invitations means RSA made an error here. 
Its not uncommon for an insurer to offer a policyholder an automatic renewal option based 
on other motor insurance policies Ive seen. But with that, Id expect an insurer to make it 
clear a policy will renew automatically, and the instructions a policyholder needs to follow 
should they not wish to renew. Im satisfied RSA did this here. 
Therefore, I dont agree on balance RSA has made an error here based on all the 
information I do have. RSA refunded Mr Bs premiums in full. I think this outcome is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances given Mr B held cover elsewhere at this time. So, I dont 
require RSA to do anything further here. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with RSA  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman