DRN-3271832
The complaint
Mr O is director of a company that Ill refer to as C. Hes complained on Cs behalf that The
New India Assurance Company Limited havent fairly valued its van following a claim on its
fleet insurance policy.
What happened
Cs van was damaged, so it claimed on its policy. New India originally turned down the claim,
so C referred a complaint here. Our service upheld the complaint and directed New India to
deal with the claim. New India agreed to cover the claim and offered C £5,418 for the van,
minus the policy excess. C didnt think this was enough and referred its complaint here.
Mr O said New India hadnt offered enough for the van and a similar van would cost around
£9,000. He also said C should have received a courtesy vehicle but didnt because of the
claim being declined and now New India is refusing to pay for the hire vehicle. He also said
he had requested a considerable amount of compensation for the distress and
inconvenience for the claim being turned down originally.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He didnt
think New India had caused any unnecessary delays and that the value offered for the van
was fair and reasonable. Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said if
New India had correctly paid out for the van originally then what has been offered may be a
fair value. However, as it took years to get to the offer being made, Mr O didnt think the offer
was fair.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 January 2022 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Cs policy say that if New India deem its van a total loss, it will
pay C the market value. It defines market value as the replacement value of the insured
vehicle at the time of loss or damage compared with one of the same make, model and
condition.
Our service doesnt value vans. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
New India inspected Cs van in March 2021. According to the report the incident date is the
22 May 2019, so the van wasnt inspected until almost two years later. The engineers report
used one trade guide and placed a value of £5,593. It goes on to list pre-accident damage to
the left-hand door mirror, right hand back door, right hand body side and the rear right hand
lamp. The report values this pre-accident damage at £275 and recommends a settlement
figure of £5,418. So, it appears to have deducted £175 for the pre-accident damage.
For pre-accident damage it would only be fair to deduct an amount from the settlement figure
if it would affect the value of the van. In this particular case given the areas of damage its
likely it would affect the value, so Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for New India to make
a deduction for the pre-accident damage.
New India hasnt evidenced the valuation it obtained from the trade guide. Ive therefore
looked at the three trade guides we have access to see if its valuation is fair and reasonable.
Due to the date of loss being over two years ago, one of the guides isnt able to provide a
value. The other two valued Cs van at £5,575 and £5,909. New Indias value (£5,593) is
within the range of these guides, Im therefore satisfied its a fair and reasonable amount.
Mr O also provided an advert to show a similar van being advertised for £8,995+VAT. Ive
considered this advert, but its not persuaded me to change my mind. I say that because its
not clear when the advert is from and it also has around 50,000 miles less than Cs van did. I
need to consider if New India has offered a fair and reasonable amount for a similar van at
the time of loss. So, while the advert shows a van of the same make and model, Im not
persuaded its similar as it has less miles on, and its not clear what date the advert is from. I
appreciate the claim has taken some time, but the delays in paying the claim and the
financial impact that had on C have been considered in Cs previous complaint. So, Im
unable to consider them again here.
Ive noted Mr Os points about the hire vehicle costs and the request for a considerable
amount of distress and inconvenience. However, Im not able to consider them in this
decision. This is because Cs previous decision dealt with them, so I wouldnt be able to
consider the same issues here. In this decision Im only able to consider if the amount New
India has offered for Cs van is fair and reasonable, and for the reasons Ive given above Im
satisfied it is.
New India responded and didnt have any further comments. Mr O didnt respond by the date 
requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments, I see no reason to depart from my findings in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
New India Assurance Company Limiteds valuation of £5,418 is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman