DRN-2474884
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr I was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. He paid a £14,000 deposit and the agreement was for £4,871 over 36 months, 
with monthly repayments of £156. At the time, the car was three years old and had done 
31,000 miles. 
Mr I said that, when he test drove the car, the brakes made a noise. Which he said the 
dealership told him was because the car had been standing for a while. But Mr I says the 
noise continued after he took possession of the car, and got worse over time. Hes also said 
there was a rattling sound from the engine, and that the paintwork starting peeling on the 
back panel and on all four alloy wheels.
Mr I complained to BMW about the quality of the car in April 2019. BMW replied, saying that 
issues with things like the paint and brakes are more common with older cars and are often 
down to wear and tear. So theyre the responsibility of the keeper. Because of this, BMW 
didnt think they needed to do anything. Mr I wasnt happy with BMWs response, and he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the Cars MOTs of August 2018 and August 2019 didnt indicate any 
issues with the brakes, nor did the service Mr I had carried out in March 2019. And Mr I had 
driven over 9,000 miles before being advised the brake pads and discs needed replacing. So 
he didnt think there was any fault with the brakes when the car was supplied to Mr I.
The investigator also said that the EGR cooler had been replaced under a safety recall in 
November 2019. But hed seen nothing to indicate that the EGR cooler had caused any 
problems or was linked to any of the faults Mr I had complained about  safety recalls are 
often used as a preventative measure to stop any potential problems happening.
The investigator thought that the paintwork issues were cosmetic and are to be expected of 
a car of this age and mileage. He said that Mr I had inspected the car before he agreed to 
take out finance with BMW, and there was nothing to indicate that the car wasnt as 
described when it was supplied to Mr I. So he didnt think BMW were responsible for the 
paintwork issues.
Finally, the investigator said that Mr I had raised issues about the exhaust baffles and 
catalytic converter. But he hadnt seen anything to show him what work was needed, what 
faults (if any) were present, or that any faults relating to this were present when the car was 
supplied to Mr I. So he didnt think BMW needed to do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigator. He provided copies of calls and text messages he had 
with the dealer, where he was discussing the faults with the car. Hes also said that the car 
was under warranty, but his local dealership didnt want to take ownership because the car 
had been purchased from a different dealership. The investigator didnt think this additional 
information changed his mind. So Mr I asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr I was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, BMW are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract when they were supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear and tear. And, if a fault is identified after six months, its for Mr I 
to prove that the fault was present at the point of supply. So, if I thought the car was faulty 
when Mr I took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair 
and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
Its not disputed that Mr I has had some issues with the car. But I need to consider whether 
those issues were present at the point the car was supplied to him. And, if so, whether or not 
this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr I provided a report from an independent garage, dated 8 June 2020. This says that the 
front and rear brakes need changing, the alloys need to be refurbished, and that the garage 
suspects the exhaust baffles or catalytic convertor [have] broken up. At the point of this 
inspection the car had done 40,008 miles  so the car had travelled just over 9,000 miles 
since it was supplied. But this report doesnt say whether any of these issues were present 
or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr I.
Because the brakes are a very important safety feature with any car, theyre checked as part 
of an MOT test, and usually checked as part of any service that takes place. Ive seen the 
MOT record for the car, which shows the following:
14 August 2018. Mileage 30,969. Pass with no advisories.
15 August 2019. Mileage 35,955. Pass with no advisories.
8 August 2020. Mileage 41,092. Fail due to worn tyre. Advisory due to worn tyre.
15 August 2020. Mileage 41,241. Pass with advisory due to worn tyre.
Ive also seen that Mr I had his car serviced on 16 March 2019. And theres nothing in the 
service record Ive seen that shows a problem with the brakes.Based on this information, Im satisfied there wasnt a problem with the brakes on Mr Is car 
at the point it was supplied, nor did any fault occur within the first six months. Had this have 
been the case, I wouldve expected this to have been picked up on the MOT history and 
service record.
Im not disputing that Mr I heard noises from the brakes, and hes provided a video of a call 
he had with the supplying dealership about this. But the dealership say any noise coming 
from the brakes was likely because of a build-up of brake dust on the brake pads. They also 
said that the thumping noise Mr I heard when he puts the car into reverse gear was the car 
clearing brake dust out of the brake callipers. The dealership confirmed that BMWs do this. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that the issue Mr I has had with the brakes is one of wear and 
tear  a result of the age and the mileage hes done since getting the car  and not an 
underlying fault that made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr I also provided a video of the paint peeling from the alloy wheels. And hes said that this 
is because the alloys were badly refurbished before he took possession of it. But, in the 
video of the call he supplied, the dealership said that the paint wasnt peeling when Mr I 
picked up the car. Im not aware of when the paint started peeling, or why. But I agree with 
the investigator that this would be a cosmetic issue and could be expected given the age of 
the car. So, I dont consider the paintwork issue made the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Finally, Mr I complained of a rattling noise when he drives the car. But Ive not seen anything 
to show me what this noise relates to, or when it started. So I cant say it relates to a fault 
that was present when the car was supplied. Mr I has provided a report from a garage 
saying that the exhaust baffles or catalytic convertor may have a fault. This report was done 
in June 2020, and the car had an MOT in August 2020. 
Checking the exhaust system is part of the MOT check, and the car didnt fail any recent 
MOT, or have an advisory, because of the exhaust. But the MOT failed due to badly worn 
tyres. And badly worn tyres can cause excessive noise when driving. So I think its more 
likely than not that theres wasnt a problem with the exhaust system when the car was 
supplied.
Mr I said that, had he known the brake system would make noises, and the alloys would 
start peeling, then he wouldnt have taken the car. I can appreciate his feelings on this. But, 
for the reasons given, I dont think these are faults or issues that made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied. So I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman