DRN-2848432
The complaint
Mr P complains about Agria Pet Insurance Ltd (API) and their decision to decline his pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
On 11 June 2020, Mr P took out a four-week free insurance policy provided by API. This 
insurance was available to Mr P as hed purchased his dog, who Ill refer to as T, through a 
specific website and was intended to allow Mr P some time to consider his insurance 
options.
Mr P decided to continue with the policy provided by API and the four-week policy continued 
into a full, annual policy. On 21 July, Mr P attempted to make a claim on this policy as T had 
become unwell. The vets who treated T supplied a pre-authorisation form to API on 22 July, 
detailing Ts treatment for a heart condition and the associated costs. 
But, crucially, this form stated that Ts symptoms were first noted on 19 June, eight days 
after the free four-week insurance policy was incepted. So, on 29 July, API wrote to Mr P 
and declined the claim. They explained the free four-week policy terms and conditions 
excluded any claims for conditions that were noted within the first 14 days of the policy. So, 
they were unable to cover the costs of Ts treatment. Mr P was unhappy with this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr P didnt think APIs decision to decline his claim was fair. He thought theyd mis-sold the 
free four-week insurance as essentially he felt T was only insured for the last two weeks of 
the policy. He didnt think this was made clear to him when he took out the policy and so, he 
wanted API to review their decision and accept the claim.
API responded and didnt agree. They thought their website, the terms and conditions and 
the policy schedule all made it clear that any conditions noted in the first 14 days of cover 
wouldnt be covered. So, they thought theyd declined the claim fairly and didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr P remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Mr Ps view 
that the four-week free policy was mis-advertised as T wasnt covered for the first two weeks 
of it. But he thought API made it reasonably clear on both their website and the documents 
Mr P received that any condition first noted in the first 14 days would be excluded. So, he 
thought API had acted fairly when relying on this exclusion and because of this, he didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong by declining the claim. So, he didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He thought the policy had been mis-advertised and didnt think this was 
fair. He felt as thought the advisor hed spoken to in July had told him T would be covered as 
the policy had continued into an annual one, so thought hed been led into agreeing to the 
treatment which had impacted him financially. Due to the above, Mr P maintained his belief 
that API should accept his claim. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. I appreciate how 
upsetting it wouldve been to discover T was suffering from a heart condition and I recognise 
the worry this wouldve caused. And I understand Mr P took out the free four-week policy 
with API to help with the financial impact of this sort of situation. So, when API declined Mr 
Ps claim, I can appreciate how frustrated Mr P wouldve been. But for me to say API have 
done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they acted outside of the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining the claim. Or, if they acted within them, that it was 
unfair for API to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the free four-week policy Mr P took out which says, we 
will not pay any treatment resulting from an illness that showed any clinical signs within the 
first 14 days of the policy. And its not in dispute that T first started showing signs of a heart 
condition on 19 June, which was only eight days into the policy. Because of this, Im satisfied 
the claim Mr P made fell under the exclusion set out within the terms of the policy and so, I 
think API acted within these when declining the claim.
But Ive also thought about whether it was fair for API to rely on this exclusion. Mr P doesnt 
think it is as the policy was advertised as a free four-week policy and due to the exclusion 
API had relied upon, he believes the policy was essentially only valid for two weeks. And I do 
understand why Mr P thinks this as any conditions found in the first two weeks would fall 
under to exclusion. But the policy schedule confirms the policy last for a full four weeks and 
API have confirmed it was offered as a free policy to allow customers time to consider their 
insurance options after acquiring their pets.
And its common industry practice for a 14 day start of policy exclusion to be included in any 
insurance policy, in order to limit the insurers risk to illnesses that may have been present 
before the policy was taken out. So, I cant say API acted unfairly by including this as theyre 
entitled to make business decisions on how much risk theyre willing to cover. But I would 
expect API to make this reasonably clear to a customer before the policy is taken out.
Ive seen a screenshot of APIs website, which I think shows clearly that illness cover would 
start in 14 days from the date the policy was taken out. The screenshot shows this was 
made clear before the application process for the insurance policy could be completed. And 
Ive seen this exclusion was made clear in both the terms and conditions of the policy and in 
the policy schedule, under the section heading Are there any restrictions on cover. So, I 
think API did make this exclusion reasonably clear to Mr P and because of this, I think they 
were fair to rely on it when making the claim.
Ive then thought about Mr Ps claim that he only agreed for T to be treated after API 
confirmed his claim would be covered on 21 July. But Ive seen at this point, a pre-
authorisation form hadnt been submitted by the treating vet, so I dont think API wouldve 
been able to confirm for certain that the treatment would be covered as they didnt have accurate details of the costs. That being said, even if API did confirm this to Mr P on the 
phone, I dont think this is likely to have changed the decision Mr P made.
Its clear T was ill and required treatment for a heart condition. As this had already been 
diagnosed, I dont think its likely Mr P wouldve been able to source alternative insurance as 
pre-existing conditions are usually excluded from any policies. So, even if API had confirmed 
to Mr P before the treatment began that they wouldnt be covering the costs of it, I think its 
likely Mr P wouldve continued with the treatment as it was essential for T. So, I dont think 
any advice given to Mr P on that call has resulted in any additional financial impact. And 
because of this, I dont think API need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. And I recognise APIs decision to 
decline the claim wouldve added to an already upsetting situation. But I hope this decision 
explains why I dont think API acted unfairly when taking that decision on this occasion and I 
hope T has recovered fully since the events that have been complained about.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Agria Pet Insurance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman