DRN-2572909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc, (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out the policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage in 1989. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs K 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
This decision only deals with the complaint that the policy was mis-sold and not any other 
issues Mr and Mrs K may have against BoS in connection with the MPPI. For instance, how 
it dealt with their complaint or matters relating to subsequent correspondence which dont 
impact on the mis-sale complaint.
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by 
Mr and Mrs K. Nor does it have much detail about how the policy was sold. So, Ive made 
my decision based on the information that I do have. And what we know about the sale of 
MPPI policies generally, and those in particular sold by BoS. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the light 
of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Again, because of the time that has passed, BoS no longer has a copy of the policy terms 
and conditions. So, Ive looked at the earliest Halifax terms and conditions that we do have. 
And I think that its reasonable to decide this case on the basis that similar terms and 
conditions would have applied to this sale.
Although the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ks joint names, on balance, I think it is likely that, 
the policy only covered Mr K. I say this because he was the sole earner. So Mrs K didnt 
have any income, the loss of which may have adversely affected the ability of her and Mr K 
to make their monthly mortgage repayments. Further, I think its likely that only employed 
people would have been eligible for the policy.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs K said that they felt pressured into taking out the MPPI. They told us that BoS 
advised them to take it, and also that it told them that it was in their best interests and that 
they needed it. Ive thought carefully about these statements, but I dont consider that they 
amount to putting unfair pressure on Mr and Mrs K to take the policy. I find that this 
conclusion is reinforced because Mr and Mrs K also said that they decided to take out the 
MPPI because it was their first house and they didnt want to do anything wrong. The 
reference to decided doesnt imply undue pressure was being put on them. And Im not 
persuaded that the language used in extracts of later correspondence from BoS to Mr and 
Mrs K, provided to me, would have amounted to such pressure, had it been used at the time 
of the sale.
Mr and Mrs K say that they didnt know that taking out the policy was optional. Looking at 
what Ive said in my previous paragraph, I dont think that anything Mr and Mrs K say BoS 
told them, amounted to saying that they had to have the insurance  I take the suggestion 
that they needed the policy was to the effect that they had a need for it, not that it was a 
requirement; and the fact that they say that they decided to take it out shows that they 
knew they had a choice. And clearly, if it was actually wrong not to take out the MPPI, they 
wouldnt have been given their mortgage without it, so they wouldnt have had a choice. And 
I havent seen anything else to suggest that BoS said or did anything else to make Mr and 
Mrs K think that the policy wasnt optional. 
As Ive said, BoS no longer has much detail about the sale. And it isnt required to keep such 
information for the length of time that has passed since it took place. But Mr and Mrs K say 
that the MPPI was sold in a meeting and that BoS advised them to take it. To give Mr and 
Mrs K the opportunity for the most favourable outcome in their complaint, Ive based my 
decision on this, even though BoS can no longer confirm these aspects of the sale. 
If BoS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs K, it needed to have taken reasonable steps 
to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps BoS actually took. But, 
having considered what I know about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, and by 
reference to the terms and conditions to which Ive referred above, I find that the policy was 
suitable in any event. I say this because:
Mr K would likely have been eligible for the MPPI;
Mr K was unlikely to have been adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions 
and limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr K has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employment but had no savings 
or other insurance to help him meet his mortgage repayments if he hadnt been working. 
But, following a successful claim, the policy would likely, as a minimum, have paid 
Mr and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage repayments, had Mr K been off work. These payments 
would likely to have been paid for up to 12 months, in the case of him becoming 
involuntarily unemployed. And for up to 24 months, had he been off work because of 
accident or sickness  this is a much longer maximum period than Mr K thinks his sick 
pay would have covered. And the policy benefits would have been paid in addition to any 
sick or redundancy payments Mr K would have received from his employment, leaving 
these available to help him and Mrs K meet their other expenses while he wasnt 
working. So, I find that the MPPI could have been of use to them;
BoS has told us that policy cost was initially £26 a month. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs K couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, as it was paid for 
monthly, had they later felt that the policy was unaffordable for them or that they no 
longer wanted it, they could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without further cost.Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs K everything that it ought to have about the 
MPPI, so that they could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take it or not. 
But, as Ive concluded that they seem to have wanted this type of cover and that it was 
suitable for them, I dont think that clearer information would have changed Mr and Mrs Ks 
mind and stopped them buying it. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs K been unable to make their monthly 
mortgage payments, which were secured on their home. 
This means that Mr and Mrs K havent lost out because of anything that may have been 
wrong with BoS sales process. So, theres nothing that I require it to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered all the information the parties have given to us. In particular, 
although I address below only the main ones which I think require a comment from me, Ive 
thought carefully about all the points covered in Mr and Mrs Ks response to our adjudicators 
view.
It isnt unreasonable to expect BoS still to have the basic records of the dates on which Mr 
and Mrs Ks mortgage was taken out and ended while, on the other hand, not having 
retained notes of what was said to them during the meeting. Mr and Mrs K themselves say it 
is unreasonable to think that one keeps a record of a phone call from 1989 in the pre-mobile 
phone era.... And I dont find anything unreasonable about the fact that BoS is able to 
provide copies of standard printed documents going back some 25 years but not notes of 
what was said at one particular meeting.
In the absence of the specific information relating to the MPPI sale to Mr and Mrs K, Ive 
considered our knowledge about MPPI sales generally and what we do know about BoS 
MPPI sales process and policies. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable approach.
Mr and Mrs K have told us that the terms of MPPI cover offered to them some seven years 
after the policy was sold, were different from those in the policy that was in use nearer to the 
date of the sale. I dont find this makes my assumption that the latter were likely to have 
applied to their sale, unreasonable.
There is nothing in the terms, which I think are similar to those which would have applied to 
Mr and Mrs K, that would have made Mr K ineligible, fully or even partially, just because 
Mrs K wasnt working, as they have suggested. As Ive explained, I think its likely the policy 
was in Mr Ks sole name. So Mrs Ks employment status is unlikely to have been relevant.
In the circumstances of this complaint, particularly where Mr and Mrs K say they had no 
savings, the salary Mr K was earning at the time of the sale has no bearing on whether the 
policy was mis-sold, because the purpose of the policy was to give cover when he wasnt 
earning. And how his career in fact proceeded afterwards doesnt affect what his financial 
circumstances were at the time.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman