DRN-3934380
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt act promptly, or 
in accordance with his wishes, when dealing with an income drawdown request he initially 
made in February 2022. As a result, the payment was made in the 2022/23 tax year, which 
meant that Mr L had missed out on using his tax fee allowance for the previous tax year.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out the background to the complaint in 
her assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
On 14 February 2022, IISL received Mr Ls request for an income payment of £7,070
from his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Unfortunately there wasnt enough cash available to make the payment. So, on the same 
date IISL left Mr L a voicemail message to explain that hed need to sell some shares to 
raise that amount.
Because it hadnt heard from Mr L, IISL sent him a secure message on 2 March 2022 to 
explain that he didnt have sufficient cash for the withdrawal. It explained again that hed 
need to sell some shares to cover the income amount requested.
Mr L replied on 24 March 2022 confirming he would sell some shares. The investigator said 
that shed seen the contract notes which confirm that Mr L did this on the same date.
The share sale settled on 28 March 2022 and on the same day IISL told Mr L that it could 
still re-request the payment once the funds had cleared. But this was incorrect, as the 
previous payment request had been cancelled due to dormancy  as IISL hadnt heard 
from Mr L.
But in view of the incorrect information provided to Mr L, IISL arranged for the payment to be 
requested again without the need for Mr L to submit a further form. It also offered Mr L £50 
by way of an apology.
Dissatisfied with IISLs response, however, Mr L referred the matter to this service. The 
investigator considered the merits of the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
IISLs deadline for withdrawals in the 2021/22 tax year was 5pm on 18 March 2022, 
and this information was available on its website and when Mr L logged into his 
account.
Although Mr L had requested the withdrawal before this date, there werent sufficient 
funds available to make the payment. IISL had contacted Mr L about this, but he 
didnt respond or sell his shares until after the deadline of 18 March 2022. He 
therefore didnt think that it had done anything wrong or acted unfairly.
IISL did incorrectly tell Mr L that it would request the payment again once the funds 
were received from the sale of his investments. But the deadline for the 2021/22 tax 
year had already passed.
IISL did then arrange for the withdrawal to happen without Mr L needing to submit a 
further form, and it also offered to pay him £50. The investigator thought that this was 
a fair offer in the circumstances.
Mr L disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
A previous withdrawal request had been handled much quicker due to his mental 
health issues and hed been led to believe that he would continue to receive 
additional support in respect of this.
IISL would have been able to process the request in time, had it followed the same 
procedures it had previously adopted.
Hed dealt with much of the previous communication by email and this was a further 
important consideration.
Hed asked IISL to action the sale of shares within his account in his initial request, 
so it should have done this from the outset. It could do this to cover fees, and so it 
should be able to do the same to cover income withdrawals.
He had no voicemail or online access during the period in which IISL had tried to 
contact him, but it should in any case have acted in line with his original request.
The investigator considered Mr Ls further points, but wasnt persuaded to change his view 
on the matter, saying the following:
He acknowledged that IISL had been aware of Mr Ls mental health issues, but he 
didnt think it had done anything wrong on this occasion. 
There had been a previous withdrawal request in December 2021, and IISL had 
managed to speed up this process for Mr L. But at that point, Mr L had sufficient 
funds in his SIPP account. This wasnt the case in February 2022, and as per the 
terms and conditions, IISL couldnt therefore make the payment.
The investigator said that IISL could sell shares to cover its fees, but the terms didnt 
say that it would do so to cover income payments  and so he couldnt conclude that 
it had acted unfairly by not doing so.
She also couldnt see any record of IISL having been made aware that Mr L couldnt 
be contacted by phone or secure message in February and March 2022  and Mr L 
didnt inform it of a change of address until June 2022.
In response, Mr L requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman, saying the 
following:
Although there werent sufficient funds in the SIPP account to cover the payment, 
hed asked IISL to liquidate funds as was necessary. It had ignored this and had asked him to do it, but he didnt receive that notification in time. IISL should have 
acted on his original request.
Mr L also mentioned problems with a recent payment hed requested, and which still 
hadnt been resolved. He said that hed raised a further complaint with IISL about 
this.
As agreement couldnt be reached, and as requested by Mr L, the complaint has been 
referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but Ive reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
I acknowledge what Mr L has said about IISL not adhering to his instructions to proactively 
sell shares to cover income payments, and that it was able to do so to cover fees, but the 
terms and conditions of the policy set out that, whilst it would indeed sell holdings within the 
SIPP to cover its fees, it was the policyholders responsibility to ensure that there were 
sufficient liquid funds to cover requested withdrawals. So, as with the investigator, I dont 
think IISL has done anything wrong in that sense.
With regard to how IISL addressed Mr Ls mental health issues, Ive noted how IISL handled 
Mr Ls previous withdrawal request in December 2021, and reacted to the sense of urgency 
expressed by Mr L by processing this much faster than the usual two week turnaround time. 
And then, for the event complained of here, when IISL realised that it couldnt pay Mr Ls 
requested withdrawal in February 2022, it tried to contact him by phone and secure message 
to explain that there were insufficient funds to cover this.
I acknowledge that it could also have contacted Mr L by email, but I think the phone call and 
secure message might arguably be deemed to be a more direct and personal approach in 
trying to help him. I do therefore think that IISL acted reasonably in trying to help Mr L with 
his withdrawal.
It was unfortunate that IISL then incorrectly told Mr L that it would re-request the payment 
once the share sale had completed, but it didnt say that this would occur before the end of 
the 2021/22 tax year. And as the cut-off date for submitting, or resubmitting, the withdrawal 
request within that tax year had expired by the time of the share sale, I dont think that, 
beyond perhaps unfairly raising Mr Ls expectations, this made a practical difference to the 
outcome. And IISL has offered Mr L £50 in respect of that incorrect information, which I think 
is probably about right in the circumstances.
As a further concession, IISL did then also agree to make the payment without Mr L needing 
to submit a further request form. But I dont think that concession would mean that this is 
what it should have done after the share sale settled on 28 March 2022, or that, given that its 
cut-off date for withdrawal requests had been on 18 March 2022, it would in any case have 
been able to complete the withdrawal request in time for the end of the tax year.
In closing, Ive noted what Mr L has said about his further complaint, and if he remains 
dissatisfied with the outcome of that, he may refer that to this service for us to consider as he 
has done for this matter.My final decision
Overall therefore, for the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman