DRN-4353923
The complaint
Mrs P complained because MBNA Limited refused to refund her for transactions she said 
she didnt make.
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs P opened a credit card with MBNA. A new physical card was 
ordered, and the details appeared within her banking app straightaway. 
On 17 January 2023, Mrs P raised a fraud claim, saying she hadnt authorised multiple 
transactions on her new account. She said her usual postman hadnt been working and she 
believed her post had been intercepted and her new card and PIN stolen. She said shed 
never received these. MBNA credited the disputed amount to Mrs Ps account and started to 
investigate. 
Mrs P had been able to access her card through the mobile app, and she said that some of 
the transactions on the account had been genuine. But MBNA mistakenly raised disputes 
with the merchant on these too. They included two flight transactions which Mrs P had made 
on 18 and 19 December, and when MBNA raised a fraud claim with the airline, it cancelled 
Mrs Ps flights. This meant she had to re-book at higher prices. MBNA also declined Mrs Ps 
fraud claim about the other transactions, and it re-debited the transactions. 
Mrs P complained.
MBNA upheld Mrs Ps complaint about the flight transactions which were genuine and which 
it shouldnt have disputed with the merchants. It sent Mrs P a cheque for £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset, and it agreed to pay her the difference between the original prices 
of the flights shed booked, and the prices she had had to pay when shed rebooked them.
But MBNA didnt uphold Mrs Ps claim for a refund of the other transactions which Mrs P had 
disputed. In its final response letter, it said that it had made an error when it had credited Mrs 
Ps account with a refund, so it had then re-debited these. But it said that its fraud processes 
were in place to safeguard customers and the bank, and when considering a claim like Mrs 
Ps, it made a decision based on the evidence it held. It told Mrs P that any further contact 
about her claim would have to be done by the police liaising directly with MBNAs police 
liaison team.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She said shed lost £3,668.62, plus the 
interest and cash withdrawal fees shed been charged. Mrs P said she wanted MBNA to 
refund the disputed transactions, plus all interest and charges.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She said that MBNA had redressed its 
errors about the flight transactions and she thought £250 compensation for that was fair. But 
she said that technical evidence showed that Mrs P had logged into her mobile banking over 
20 times during the time when the disputed transactions were taking place. Mrs P had said 
she hadnt noticed them, and only found out when shed had a text on 17 January saying 
shed reached her credit limit. But MBNA had also sent a text on 22 December saying Mrs P 
had used more than 90% of her credit limit  and Mrs P hadnt reported it then. The 
investigator thought it was likely that Mrs P had authorised the disputed transactions herself.
Mrs P didnt agree. She asked why MBNA hadnt sent her new card by registered post, and 
said that when her daughter had a new card, shed had to collect it in person. She also said 
the mail service had massive delays, so why was she expected to tell MBNA it hadnt 
arrived, when it was known that the post was incredibly slow. She also said she hadnt 
looked at her statement when shed logged in, and asked if MBNA could prove she had. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation for the flight tickets and error in crediting Mrs Ps account
MBNAs final response accepted that it shouldnt have raised disputes on the genuine flight 
ticket transactions.  It refunded Mrs P with the difference between those genuine 
transactions, and the higher price of the replacement tickets she bought.  MBNA also said it 
made an error in crediting Mrs Ps account with the disputed transactions  though many 
organisations will provide a temporary credit when a customer raises a dispute about a 
transaction.  MBNA paid Mrs P £250 compensation, plus the £346.74 for the difference in 
flight prices. Ive considered this amount, and I find that this was fair and reasonable for 
these two issues. 
Disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether I think its more likely than not that it was Mrs P who authorised the 
transactions, or a fraudster. 
Ive looked at the computer records of Mrs Ps account. These show relevant confidential 
technical information about exactly how the disputed transactions were carried out. Having 
seen this, Im persuaded that the transactions were most likely to have been carried out by 
Mrs P. 
In addition to the technical information, Ive considered the circumstances. Mrs P logged on 
to make the genuine transactions, where she could access the necessary card number and 
its security code. She logged on very many times during the period of the disputed 
transactions between 18 December and 17 January. Shed have seen the account overview 
page when she did so. I recognise that Mrs P said she wasnt dealing with her finances 
because she had four credit cards, her daughter was unwell, and it was Christmas. But 
despite these reasons, its not disputed that Mrs P was logging on. So I cant see why she 
wouldnt have asked MBNA about anything she didnt recognise  especially as some of the 
amounts werent small.
Mrs P also says that shed received text messages for all the genuine payments, but no 
messages about the other transactions. Our investigator asked Mrs P why she didnt act on 
the text message on 22 December which said shed used more than 90% of her credit limit  
especially as she logged in within half an hour of this text being sent to her. Im not 
persuaded by Mrs Ps reply that shed had two texts that day, and it simply didnt register.Ive also looked at the pattern of transactions. Fraudsters normally take the maximum 
amount quickly, in order to maximise their gain before an account holder can spot whats 
going on and block further transactions. But here, there are no disputed transactions 
between 23 December and 14 January when the disputed transactions re-started. This just 
isnt a likely pattern for a fraudster.   
Finally, Mrs P asked why the card wasnt sent by registered post, so it could be confirmed 
whether shed received it or not. Banks are entitled to take their own decisions about how 
they send out cards and other correspondence. I recognise that Mrs P says she had four 
credit cards to deal with, and she says there were postal problems at the time, but Id have 
expected her to flag the cards non-arrival with MBNA at least when the disputed 
transactions started from 18 December.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mrs P carried 
out the disputed transactions herself. So MBNA doesnt have to refund her for the 
transactions or any interest and charges associated with them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman