DRN-3124621
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr N are business partners. They complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly 
recalled a Bounce Back Loan and closed their bank account. Theyre also unhappy with 
delays in obtaining the loan initially and that the bank set up a voice identification service 
without consent.
Mrs B and Mr N are represented in bringing their complaint by Miss N.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr N held a business account with HSBC and applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan on 20 May 2020. 
Having not had a response from HSBC, Mrs B called to chase things up on 17 June and the 
bank escalated the request as a complaint. In its response of 4 July, it said that high demand 
for the lending under the Government Scheme had caused some delays  but that the 
application had been received and would be processed as soon as possible.
Still awaiting a response, Mrs B called HSBC again on 7 September and again the matter 
was escalated as a complaint. The bank said that the loan application had been made on 
behalf of a different legal entity to that of the accountholder  in short, the account was in the 
name of Mrs B and Mr N as a partnership, but the business had been referred to as a sole 
trader in the application. So HSBC said theyd need to reapply.
Mrs B and Mr N reapplied but unbeknownst to them, HSBC cancelled the application as a 
duplicate. After Mrs B followed up again in November, this was clarified and a further 
application was made on 16 November. This was approved and a loan of £20,000 was 
drawn down the following day. 
In response to a further complaint from Mrs B and Mr N, HSBC apologised for the way it had 
handled their application and for the delays caused. The bank also upheld a separate 
complaint from Mrs B about being registered for a voice identification security measure. It 
said that a system issue had opted-in some customers without consent  so to put things 
right, it opted Mrs B out of the service and paid £50 for the inconvenience caused.
On 24 December 2020, HSBC carried out a review of Mrs B and Mr Ns account and 
restricted their access while it did so. 
Following the review, HSBC decided to end its relationship with Mrs B and Mr N. The bank 
wrote to them on 19 January 2021 to advise that it would be closing their account in two 
months time. It also terminated the Bounce Back Loan facility and demanded its immediate 
repayment. 
Mrs B and Mr N complained to HSBC about the closure of its facilities, but the bank 
maintained its decision. It said it had acted in accordance with the applicable terms and 
conditions and its internal policies when taking the actions it had. 
As Mrs B and Mr N remained unhappy with the banks actions and the level of compensation 
paid for the errors it had already accepted, Miss N referred the matter to us on their behalf. 
HSBC subsequently offered to pay Mrs B and Mr N compensation of £150 for the problems 
theyd experienced in making the initial Bounce Back Loan application. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought HSBCs offer was a fair way to 
put things right. She said, in summary, that:
The delay in processing the Bounce Back Loan application initially had been partially 
outside of the banks control  given the unprecedented volume of applications it was 
dealing with and as there was a discrepancy between some of the information 
submitted and the banks records. But it had still taken longer than necessary to 
process Mrs B and Mr Ns application after they reapplied in September. For the 
stress and worry this had caused them, she thought £150 was fair compensation.
HSBC had already taken appropriate steps to rectify the error in registering Mrs B for 
the voice identification measure without consent.
HSBC had a number of legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil and, to do so, it was 
entitled to restrict and review accounts in the manner it had here. It had complied 
with the terms and conditions of Mrs B and Mr Ns account in taking these actions 
and when closing the account, and wasnt required to explain its reasons.
The decision to terminate the Bounce Back Loan facility had also been made in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions. The loan was cancellable in certain 
circumstances and she thought it was reasonable for HSBC to terminate the 
agreement based on the outcome of the banks review.
Miss N didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Delays with the initial application
The first application that Mrs B and Mr N made in May 2020 was always going to be 
unsuccessful. Having looked at a record of the application, I can see that they made an error 
in saying that the legal status of their business was a sole trader, when in fact it was a 
partnership. So a further application would always have been required.
This was only made clear to Mrs B and Mr N in September, after they raised a complaint. 
Applications were expected to be assessed within a matter of days. And so, even accepting 
the unprecedented level of demand that HSBC was dealing with, I think this delay in moving 
things forward was unreasonable. 
There was then a further delay of two months to process the second application and draw 
down the loan. HSBCs records indicate this is because it initially cancelled the second 
application as it mistakenly thought it was a duplicate of the first  and didnt notify Mrs B and Mr N, so they were unaware that theyd need to reapply again until they chased things 
up in November.
Mrs B had to make a number of calls to HSBC to follow up on the matter and I can see that it 
will have caused her and Mr N additional stress and worry during an already difficult time. So 
its right that HSBC compensates them for this. In that respect, Im pleased to see that HSBC 
has apologised and, since the matter was referred to us, offered to pay them £150 
compensation. I think this is a fair way to put this aspect of the matter right, so Im not 
requiring the bank to do anything further. 
Registration for voice identification
HSBC has already accepted that it made an error in registering Mrs B for its voice 
identification security measure without her consent. Once it was alerted to this, it took steps 
to rectify the situation swiftly  by opting Mrs B out of the service, apologising, and paying 
her £50 compensation. 
While I recognise that Mrs B will have been concerned at such actions being taken without 
her consent, I think the bank took reasonable steps to put things right and I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
The review, restriction and closure of the bank account
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs B and Mr Ns account allowed HSBC to suspend its 
services. HSBC has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. And while I can 
understand why Mrs B and Mr N were unhappy at the lack of information they received 
about the review, HSBC wasnt required to give them notice or explain its reasons.
Ive noted Mrs B and Mr Ns concerns as to the banks motivation for closing their account 
and their points around issues in completing a safeguarding review. While it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to disclose the reasons for HSBCs decision, I can reassure Mrs B and 
Mr N that it was not the result of any administrative problems with the safeguarding review.
As Ive not found that HSBC did anything wrong in undertaking the review or applying the 
restriction to the account, it follows that I dont think the bank is responsible for any impact 
these actions might have had on Mrs B and Mr N or their business. 
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from Mrs B and Mr N. That was 
a decision it was entitled to make. It proceeded to close the account in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions, by providing Mrs B and Mr N with 60 days notice of the 
account closure. Again, the bank isnt required to explain the reasons for its decision and I 
cant fairly require that it share any more information on this than it already has.
The termination of the Bounce Back Loan facility
HSBCs review also led it to terminate Mrs B and Mr Ns Bounce Back Loan facility. The 
terms and conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand 
immediate repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for the bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. I understand Mrs B and Mr N find this decision hard to accept as HSBC didnt give any other 
reason for it than the outcome of its checks. But again the bank isnt required to explain its 
rationale in any more detail than this and I cant fairly require it to do so. 
I also note that Mrs B and Mr N wanted to know if there were any circumstances in which 
they could apply for another Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. The Loan Scheme has now 
ended, but this was never going to be possible even if Mrs B and Mr N banked elsewhere 
and/or repaid the loan in full. Under the Loan Scheme rules, only one loan was permitted per 
business  and even though it was subsequently terminated, Mrs B and Mr N had obtained a 
loan and were not, therefore, eligible to another.
Lastly, I understand from what Miss N says that since raising this complaint, Mrs B and Mr N 
have repaid much of the outstanding loan balance but encountered problems in making the 
final payment needed. That has rightly been raised as a separate complaint for HSBC to 
investigate, so Ive not looked into it when reviewing this complaint and make no further 
comment on it here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay £150 compensation to Mrs B and Mr N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman