DRN-3517209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Policy Services Limited (PSL) didnt provide them with advice 
about the quickest way to encash their investments.
What happened
The background to this complaint was fully set out in my provisional decision which was 
issued to both parties on 17 May 2022. In summary, the events leading to this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs K held several different investments with different providers. On 9 March 
2020 they ask their PSL adviser for valuations. And on 11 March, they asked him to 
encash their investments.
The adviser sent surrender forms for each provider to Mr and Mrs K, which they 
received and posted on 12 March. Most of their investments received surrender 
values as these applied on 13 March.
Mr and Mrs K complained to PSL saying its adviser should have told them about the 
option to surrender their investments by phone. They say they lost out on 
approximately £20,000 as a result of the delay they say was caused by PSL.
In my provisional decision, I said that I didnt think PSL caused unreasonable delays 
to the surrender process. So, I didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Neither 
party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in line with what I said in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint. In summary, this is for the following reasons:
PSL has said on a number of occasions that it isnt responsible because the adviser 
sent out the forms. But as it knows, the advisers previous business was transferred 
to PSL by way of novation. In my view, despite the adviser sending out the forms and 
being Mr and Mrs Ks first point of contact, PSL, not the adviser, is responsible for the 
issues that have led to this complaint.
PSL sent Mr and Mrs K the surrender forms on 11 March, which was the same day 
they (Mr and Mrs K) asked to surrender their policies. The forms were received by 
them on 12 March and all but one of their policies, received surrender values by 
13 March. So, I dont think PSL caused any unreasonable delays. 
However, in the case of one provider the PSL adviser gave Mr and Mrs K the 
incorrect address of where to return the form. This meant they received a valuation 
as it applied on 16 March, which was one working day later than their other 
investments. But the address given by the PSL adviser was to the head office of the 
relevant provider. And this was quickly forwarded to the correct department by that 
business. Under all these circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say PSLs error 
caused an unreasonable amount of delay.
Mr and Mrs K say PSL shouldve informed them of the option to call each provider. 
But PSL had a process which included sending the forms to be completed and 
signed by its clients who wanted to encash their investments. PSL says its process is 
designed to meet with regulatory requirements and to prevent fraud. So, I cant fairly 
say the application of this process in Mr and Mrs Ks case, which is an industry 
standard process, was unreasonable.
In any event, when asked by Mr and Mrs K whether there was a quicker way to 
surrender the policies, the adviser said they (Mr and Mrs K) could send the surrender 
forms directly to the providers rather than to PSL who would normally forward these 
on for them. This is what Mr and Mrs K did and the encashment of their investments, 
happened within two working days in most cases.
Further, only two of the providers noted an option to call. And both forms said this 
may or might be possible, so it wasnt guaranteed. Also, given at least two 
providers said this was an option, I think Mr and Mrs K was told about this as a 
possible way to encash their investments when they received the forms from PSL, 
which was only one day after their surrender request.
Mr and Mrs K say the adviser should have warned them about the: state of the 
stock market and the likely large day to day influence on the surrender values. But I 
dont think this was something any adviser could reasonably have predicted. And 
given how long the process took overall, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude any 
such advice wouldve led to the encashment of their policies any sooner than was 
already the case.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman