DRN-3425034
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains that the advice he was given by Phoenix Life
Limited to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS)
was unsuitable. Mr F has also complained about a transfer he made to a buy-out policy. He
says the risks presented by the plan werent explained, and he wasnt informed of any
alternative options.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 28 March 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. I have reproduced the relevant parts of the decision here, and 
it forms part of this final decision. 
SERPS
Mr F was advised to contract out of SERPS in April 1989. He was contracted out as from
April 1987.
Phoenix Life has provided copies of some annual statements that it sent to Mr F. The
statement for 2017 shows that in April 2017 the funds value was £71,788. Phoenix Life has
said that the benefits were subsequently transferred away from it in October 2017.
In 2020 Mr F complained, through his representative, about the suitability of the advice that
hed been given. It said, in summary, that the advice to contract out of SERPS was
unsuitable. It said it exposed Mr F to the risks of a significantly lower pension. The
representative said that Mr F wasnt properly informed of the inherent risks in the product
recommended, or of all the costs associated with the policy. It said if Mr F had been warned
of the risks he wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out.
Buy-Out plan
The buy-out plan started in 1989. Phoenix Lifes records show that the transfer value was
£9,673. Phoenix Life has said that Mr F took the benefits from the plan in May 2012. The
plans value was approximately £30,000. Mr F was eligible to take more than 25% of the
fund as tax-free cash, and he received a lump sum of £15,916, and an annuity was set up
paying £549 per year.
Mr F, through his representative complained to Phoenix Life about it in 2020. It said, in
summary, that Mr F wasnt informed of any alternatives to the buy-out plan. It said Mr F had
been invested in a single, complex, high cost fund. And that it lacked diversification and
therefore presented an unnecessary concentration of risk. It said Mr F wasnt informed
about the risks and costs of the plan, and Mr F shouldnt have transferred his benefits to it.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold either of Mr Fs complaints.
It said, in respect of SERPS, that given Mr Fs age at the time, it would have been
considered suitable to contract out of SERPS. It said it didnt know whether the risks of the
policy were assessed at the time of the sale. But that the Exempt Managed Fund that Mr F
was invested into was a low/medium risk fund, and suitable for a client with a cautious
attitude to risk. It said the costs and charges of the plan would have been shown in the
product brochure.
With regards to the buy-out plan, Phoenix Life said Mr F hadnt been given any financial
advice by one of its representative when he took out the plan, and it wasnt therefore
responsible for the sale. It said the plan was taken out to receive the benefits from Mr Fs
previous occupational pension scheme. It said the responsibility for taking out the plan was
with the trustees of that scheme.
Mr F referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it. The investigator
said the main factors that were considered when deciding whether an individual would be
better off contracting out of SERPS were their age, earnings, and the length of time to
retirement.
He said Mr F was in his early thirties and below the relevant age (known as the pivotal age,
which was 45). Given his relatively young age, the investigator said the money could be
invested for longer, and there was a greater chance that Mr F would be better off by
contracting out. The investigator said that although Mr Fs earnings werent recorded, he was
earning enough to have rebates paid into his policy. He thought overall the advice to contract
out of SERPS was appropriate at the time it was provided to Mr F.
The investigator said there was no requirement at the time that Mr F was advised to
document Mr Fs attitude to risk. He said the firm hadnt provided copies of projections of
future benefits that would have been given to Mr F, but he said these would have shown
the benefits werent guaranteed. He said the product brochure confirmed this, and also
provided details of the charges associated with the plan.
In respect of the buy-out plan, the investigator said Phoenix Life had said that it wasnt able
to trace this policy. But it had subsequently provided comments from one of its experts on
the type of plan Mr F had transferred into. They had said that the OPS that Mr F was
originally a member of had been wound up. And the benefits were transferred to the buy-out
plan in accordance with the trustees instructions. The investigator said that before the OPS
was wound up the trustees should have contacted Mr F and told him of their intentions to
wind up the scheme and transfer Mr Fs benefits to this plan. The investigator said that if the
representative had any evidence that showed this wasnt the case he would consider it.
Mr Fs representative said that Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. It said both the
law and LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) required that the
adviser properly warned Mr F of the risk that the personal pension wouldnt match the
guaranteed benefits he would otherwise be getting from SERPS. It said Mr F wouldnt have
chosen to accept that risk if hed been informed of it.
The representative also said that if Phoenix Life couldnt trace the plan it was contradictory
for one of its experts to comment on it. It also said that, regardless of what the trustees
instructions were, it was highly unlikely that the transfer of OPS benefits to a life office could
take place without the involvement of a representative from the life office.
The investigator replied saying that although Phoenix Life hadnt originally been able to trace
the plan it had subsequently located it. He said that although the trustees may have taken
advice, that was unlikely to be the responsibility of the provider  Phoenix Life.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SERPS
To give some brief background, in the late 1980s the government decided to allow
individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give individuals more choice, and shift
pension provision from the State to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of their
National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. The idea
was that these rebates, as they were known, would be invested, and build up a fund that
could be used to buy benefits that would otherwise have been provided by SERPS.
One of the critical issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set
too low, then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment
within the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be
paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level
suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that
would apply until 1993.
The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more attractive
for younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
The government gave no advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and
those for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries
at various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from
SERPS against the personal pension arrangement (based on the regulators set
assumptions of likely future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The
ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be
beneficial were called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used
to determine whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting
out.
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mr F was well below the relevant
pivotal age, and his earnings were above the lower earnings limit. So on the face of it,
against these criteria, it would have appeared likely that Mr F would be better off at
retirement by contracting out of SERPS.
As explained above, Mr Fs representative has referred to the advisers obligations under
the LAUTRO rules. And also the advisers obligations under the common law, to amongst
other things, act with reasonable skill and care.
Given that Mr F was exposed to the risk that the benefits from the personal pension could
be lower than he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS, the adviser was obliged to
take risk into account in deciding whether it was suitable for Mr F to contract out. And he
was also obliged to alert Mr F to the risks presented by contracting out which could
ultimately lead to a lower pension.However the difficulty here is that the advice was given to Mr F over 30 years ago.
So theres very little documentation available from the time that the advice was given.
Clearly, its very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of certainty exactly what was
and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out with Mr F. But where, as here, the
evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the balance of
probabilities; in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Phoenix Life has provided a copy of the Personal Option Plan brochure that it says was
given to Mr F at the time. Whilst it did outline the plans technical workings and costs and
charges associated with the plan, I dont think it highlighted the risks of contracting out.
Although a copy of the illustration isnt available, it was normal practice to provide an
illustration at that time. Given Mr Fs age, an illustration would likely have shown he would
get higher benefits from contracting out of SERPS, and I cant think of a reason why the
adviser would have been motivated not to provide Mr F with a copy. So I think its more
likely than not that an illustration was given to Mr F.
The regulator had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS,
and its members had to provide illustrations in a specified way. I think the illustration
provided to Mr F would have shown that the amount payable at retirement date was
subject to the growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved.
Mr Fs representative has said that the advice to invest the contributions in a single fund
wasnt suitable. Mr F was invested in the Exempt Managed Fund that itself invested in a
spread of assets. At the time of advice Mr F had around 30 years to state retirement date.
So I think ordinarily he would have been able to take some risk. I havent seen any evidence
to suggest that Mr F wasnt willing to take any risk at the time, and in the circumstances, Im
not currently persuaded that the fund presented too great a risk for Mr F and was unsuitable.
For the reasons Ive explained above, at the time that Mr F contracted-out in 1989 it was
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given his age and level of earnings, he
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. The written
documentation doesnt show that Mr F was clearly warned that there was a risk that he
could get a lower pension by contracting out. So on the one hand, I think its likely that the
adviser would have presented contracting out in a favourable light.
However on the other, I think Mr F was likely to have been alerted that the benefits at
retirement date depended on the performance of the investments and the growth rates
shown in the illustration being achieved. This would, therefore, have indicated to him that
there were no guarantees.
Given Mr Fs age and earnings, I think it would have been reasonably considered that he
would likely improve on the benefits that he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS by
contracting out. Mr F wasnt guaranteed to be better off by contracting out of SERPS; there
was some risk involved. But in my view contracting out would have appeared to present a
relatively low level of risk at that time.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr F wasnt willing to take any risk. Taking all the 
above onto account, and if the risks had been explained in the appropriate context, I dont 
think, on balance, Mr F would more likely than not have made a different decision about 
contracting out.Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think that contracting out was
unsuitable for Mr F.
Buy-Out plan
Phoenix Life has provided the policy records it holds from the time that Mr F took the
benefits from it in 2012. However it doesnt have any documentation from the time it was
arranged.
It has said that one of its experts on this product  a Plusplan Buy-out policy - had said the
OPS Mr F was a member of was wound up, and its members benefits were transferred to
the buy-out plan on the trustees instructions. They said the trustees would have contacted
Mr F prior to the transfer, given him time to seek advice before transferring, and let the
trustees know if he wanted to take an alternative option.
On the one hand, I think it would be unusual for an ordinary investor to want to transfer their
benefits in an occupational pension scheme without another party prompting it in some
way. But on the other, whilst that prompting could be through the actions of a financial
adviser/representative, it could also be a result of some action from the OPS itself.
In order to uphold Mr Fs complaint Id need to decide that the firm had done something
wrong. On the evidence thats been presented, Im not currently persuaded that it was more
likely than not that Phoenix was responsible for the transfer. The firm has said that the
scheme was being wound up and that the trustees had effectively decided that the benefits
would be transferred to the Plusplan Buyout unless Mr F opted for an alternative option. In
my experience that does happen, and its plausible that the trustees had made that
decision, and it was for Mr F to either accept it or seek advice about his alternatives.
Like the investigator, I can revisit that finding if Mr F/his representative provide further
evidence of the firms/advisers role and what alternative options were available to Mr F.
This could be, for example, evidence from Mr Fs former OPS trustees confirming that it
wasnt the case that they had decided to use the Plusplan Buy-out policy as a default
option, or more evidence/details of the circumstances surrounding the transfer/the advisers
role, or of advice given.
However, for the reasons Ive outlined above and on the evidence presented, Im not
currently persuaded that Mr Fs complaints should succeed.
My provisional decision therefore was not to uphold Mr Fs complaints. 
I asked Mr F (through his representative) and Phoenix Life Limited to let me have any further 
evidence or arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr Fs representative said, in summary, that I hadnt properly assessed the key issue in     
Mr Fs complaint, which was that he wasnt properly informed of the risk that he could 
receive a significantly lower retirement income. He wasnt therefore given the information 
necessary to make an informed decision. 
The representative said there had always been a very real and substantial risk that the 
income from the personal pension could be dramatically lower, albeit for obvious reasons 
many advisers were saying otherwise. It said the idea that the much higher than average 
returns of the late 1980s and early 1990s could continue for decades more was not only far- 
fetched, it was mathematically and economically impossible. The representative provided an 
article to support its argument.Phoenix Life said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold  
Mr Fs complaint.
The rates of assumed returns used in illustrations were set by the regulator. They were an 
independent view of what was considered to be reasonable at the time, and would have 
been consulted on before being agreed. I accept that different industry professionals may 
have different reasonable opinions on realistic rates of return. But I dont think that means 
the regulators rates were unreasonable. And I think the particular article provided by Mr Fs 
representative needs to be read in its entirety, as it set  out certain conditions that could 
have led an investor to achieving juicy profits over a 10 to 20 year period  including 
interest rates falling from the then 6% to say 3%; obviously they fell well below that rate.
Firms advisers were bound to take the regulators rates of return into account in providing 
suitable advice. So I dont think a firm/adviser could be said to have done something wrong 
when it was considering the suitability of contracting-out in that context. 
Mr Fs representative said that I hadnt properly assessed the key issue that Mr F hadnt 
been properly informed of the risk that he could receive a significantly lower retirement 
income, and so he wasnt in a position to make an informed decision. However, for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision, irrespective of any shortcomings in the 
advice process, I dont think, on balance, that Mr F would more likely than not have made a 
different decision about contracting out if the risks had been explained in the appropriate 
context. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think that contracting out was unsuitable for Mr F.
My final decision  
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman