DRN-3221125
The complaint
Miss G and Mr G are complaining Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
Business (RSA) cancelled Miss Gs car insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy with the 
way RSA handled a claim made on the policy.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G took out a car insurance policy through RSA to insure Miss G  his 
daughter. Miss G was the policyholder and Mr G was a named driver on the policy. Mr G 
paid for the policy and chose to pay for it through monthly instalments. The annual premium 
was payable at the start of the policy, so to enable him to pay monthly he took out a 
separate finance agreement  also provided by RSA.
In September 2020 Mr G called RSA to cancel the insurance policy, but it advised him only 
the policyholder could cancel it. Miss G called back and cancelled the policy. The next day 
RSA contacted Mr G and said he owed £480.95 because a third party had made a claim on 
the insurance policy. Mr G called back to complain as he said his daughter hadnt made him 
aware of the incident. RSA later agreed to reinstate the policy because it accepted the call 
handler hadnt told Miss G there was an active claim and the full premium was payable. 
In December 2020 Mr G contacted RSA for an update on the claim but subsequently found 
out RSA had cancelled the insurance policy because the policy had exceeded the allowed 
mileage. He was initially told there would be nothing further to pay, but after Mr G mentioned 
the ongoing claim, he was advised he would owe around £186. Mr G complained that RSA 
hadnt told him it had cancelled the insurance policy. He thinks it should write to all insured 
parties to let them know the policy was cancelled and he said hed been driving the car 
uninsured for a week and at that time was around 200 miles away from him. He arranged for 
separate insurance to get home. 
RSA acknowledged it should have given better information to Miss G when she first called to 
cancel the policy in September 2020. It said, while it did reinstate the policy quickly, it 
accepted this would have caused some distress and inconvenience. So it offered £50 in 
compensation for this.
However, it said it had written to Miss G, using both the email address and postal address 
given when the policy was taken out, to advise her the policy would cancel. And it said it 
wrote to her again to confirm the policy was cancelled. It said it was only required to write to 
the policyholder so it was satisfied it gave her adequate notice. However, it said it should 
have understood Mr G wanted to complain sooner from the initial telephone call it had with 
him. So it offered a further £30 in compensation for this.
Mr G didnt agree with RSA as he maintained it should have written to him as well as write to 
Miss G. He also complained RSA had settled the third partys damage and personal injury 
claim. He thought it had taken too long to deal with the claim and he didnt think it was right 
to settle it. He said it had only cost him £25 to repair his car, so he queried how the third 
party could claim for personal injury. 
RSA said it had inspected the cars and it was satisfied there was damage. And it said the 
third party had provided evidence of their injury so it had no choice but to settle the claim. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Mr G has raised a large number of reasons why hes unhappy with how RSA has handled 
this matter. And Im aware Ive summarised this matter in less detail than hes provided. I 
dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. I 
assure Mr G I have considered everything hes provided. But in this decision Ive focussed 
on what I consider to be the key points hes raised. 
I think there are two issues for me to decide:
1. Did RSA give sufficient notice it was going to cancel the insurance policy; and
2. Did RSA handle the third partys claim fairly.
I shall address each point separately.
Cancellation of the insurance policy
RSA first cancelled the insurance policy at Miss Gs request in September 2020. But, when 
she made the request to cancel, it should have informed her that there was an open claim 
which would mean the full annual premium was payable but the call handler didnt do so. 
Had the call handler done so, Im satisfied she wouldnt have cancelled the policy. However, 
it did reinstate the policy and it subsequently offered £50 in compensation. So I think it took 
fair steps to put things right.
Mr G hasnt disputed whether it was fair for RSA to cancel the insurance policy or not, so I 
havent commented on this in this decision. Hes unhappy RSA didnt notify him that it was 
going to cancel the insurance policy and when it subsequently did. I can understand how 
distressing it must have been for him to find out around 200 miles from home that hed been 
driving without insurance. But the policy was in the name of Miss G. So the contract of 
insurance was between Miss G and RSA. RSA was only required to communicate with the 
party it was contracted with. This is standard industry practice and its not unreasonable 
insurers do so.
RSA sent notification it was going to cancel the policy to the contact details it was given for 
Miss G when Mr G first took out the insurance policy. It wrote to her by letter and email. It 
also sent her a text message advising her it was going to cancel the policy. I also note it 
wrote to her in September 2020 advising her that that she was approaching the limit on the 
allowed mileage and asked her to top up the miles. But Miss G didnt respond to this. 
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr Gs strength of feeling in this matter, I dont think RSA 
has acted unfairly regarding this. I also think the additional £30 in compensation it offered for 
the delay in recording Mr Gs complaint is fair. 
Handling of the claim
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
or whether a claim is valid, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at 
whether RSA has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come 
to a reasonable decision. 
Miss Gs policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed RSA to defend or settle the 
claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. And it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
It seems the incident was first reported to RSA around 16 September 2020. Miss G accepted 
she was at fault for the accident at the time. The third party contacted RSA on 7 October 
2020 claiming for the damage to her car and also said she was claiming for personal injury. I 
can see RSA spoke to Mr G on 8 October 2020 asking to discuss the incident, but Mr G 
understandably said it needed to speak to Miss G.
RSA attempted to call Miss G but wasnt able to reach her. It also sent text messages to her 
asking her to make contact. Miss G didnt respond so I can see RSA followed this up by 
email asking her to make contact and asked if she had photos of both vehicles. 
RSA attempt to contact Miss G a number of times over the proceeding days, but it wasnt 
able to reach her. On 20 October 2020 it emailed her saying it wanted to inspect her car. It 
later arranged to inspect the car. The inspector reported that there was damage to the rear 
bumper and fog lamp. He said this was consistent with a light impact at low speed. 
Following the inspection report, RSA decided to settle the third partys claim on a without 
prejudice basis. It said Miss G was at fault for the accident, there was damage to both 
vehicles and the third party had provided a medical report outlining her personal injury. So it 
wasnt willing to allow this matter to proceed to court. RSA wrote to Miss G explaining why it 
was settling the third partys claim.
I appreciate Mr G feels strongly that the third party has exaggerated her claim. But, as I said 
above, my role isnt to decide whether the third partys claim is genuine or not, but to look at 
whether RSA has considered everything all parties have provided before coming to the 
conclusion it did. As I said, the terms of the policy entitled RSA to decide whether to defend 
the claim in court or to make the commercial decision to settle it. Im satisfied it did consider 
all the evidence before making the decision it did. And I dont think it was unreasonable for it 
to make the decision it did.
I also acknowledge Mr G is unhappy with the length of time the claim took. But I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably here and I think it has looked to pro-actively pursue this matter. It 
contacted Miss G numerous times by telephone, text message and email, but she didnt 
respond. And this is ultimately what caused some of the delay. But, ultimately, Im satisfied 
RSA handled this claim in a fair and reasonable way.
RSA responded to accept my provisional decision and said it didnt have anything else to 
add. Mr G said he understood and accepted my provisional decision. But he raised the 
following points that hed like to be considered:
RSA were inconsistent with its communication. It contacted him to discuss the claim and 
when requesting money, but not when cancelling the insurance policy.
RSA didnt tell him the policy was cancelling when he called to enquire about the claim.
RSA allowed him to unknowingly break the law and drive at considerable personal 
vulnerability. He said it acknowledged that it was aware most young drivers dont discuss 
these matters with their parents.
Hes concerned that if we say insurers dont have a duty to communicate other than with 
the policyholder then this issue could easily be repeated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points Mr G has raised, but I dont think hes raised anything 
new, so I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr G believes RSA has been inconsistent. But it needs to be remembered there 
are two contracts in place here  the insurance policy which was in the name of Miss G and 
a credit agreement to pay the annual premium which was in the name of Mr G. RSA needed 
to communicate with Miss G in respect to the insurance policy and then separately with Mr G 
in regards the credit agreement. And thats what its done in this matter. I appreciate Mr G 
believes RSA has been inconsistent. But I dont think it has as its communicated in line with 
its requirements for the respective contracts.
I also understand Mr Gs concern about the impact of not communicating with third parties  
such as the named driver. But the reality is the contract is with Miss G. And the law  
particularly GDPR requirements  and regulations say RSA need to discuss matter with the 
contract provider. So it hasnt acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs 
compensation total compensation offer of £80 is fair. I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman