DRN-2919525
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P is unhappy that a Lloyds Bank PLC branch manager wouldnt action a 
transaction without a family member being present - who had to then temporarily leave an 
elderly relative for whom he was a full-time care provider.  
What happened
The events under consideration here happened three months before the passing of the late 
Mrs P. At that time, Mrs Ps finances were managed for her by four family members whom 
all had lasting power of attorney to act either separately or jointly on Mrs Ps behalf.
One of the family members went into Lloyds branch and requested a transfer of funds from 
Mrs Ps account to their own. The branch manager refused to process this transaction 
without another family member coming into branch to confirm it. The only available other 
family member was a full time carer for Mrs P, and as such had to leave Mrs P, who was at 
that time in a very vulnerable condition, to come into branch to authorise the transfer. 
The estate of Mrs P wasnt happy about this, and they werent happy with how theyd been 
spoken to in branch by the branch manager, so they made a complaint. Lloyds looked at this 
complaint, but they noted that the branch manager had insisted on another attorney 
authorising the transfer to ensure the safety of Mrs Ps money and in the interests of the 
other family members. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
The estate of Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that while the branch 
managers intent was understandable, the circumstances were such that it should have been 
the case that the authorisation from the other family member was sought over the phone, 
which would have meant that Mrs P wouldnt have been left alone for any time. 
Because of this, our investigator recommended that the complaint be uphold in the estate of 
Mrs Ps favour and that Lloyds should make a payment to the estate of Mrs P of £100.
The estate of Mrs P remained dissatisfied and felt that a more significant award of 
compensation was justified. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
While I can appreciate that the power of attorney held by the family member that went into 
branch and requested the transfer of funds did allow them to act separately to the other 
family members, Id find it difficult to censure the branch manager given their intent  to 
ensure that the other family members were aware of the transfer, especially given that the 
transfer was being requested to the personal account of the family member that initially 
came into branch. And Im satisfied that its within the remit of a bank to make such a 
request if they have concerns over the security of the money being transferred - as the 
branch manager did in this instance.
However, Im also of the opinion that the confirmation that the branch manager sought could 
have been reasonably acquired by telephone, and that it wasnt necessary to request that 
one of the other family members make a personal visit into branch.
That an in-person branch visit was insisted upon meant that the only family member 
available, who was at that time a full-time carer for Mrs P, had to leave Mrs P to come into 
branch to authorise a transfer that they could reasonably have authorised on the telephone. 
And it was for this reasons that our investigator recommended that Lloyds make a payment 
to the estate of Mrs P of £100.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by another party. However, the 
£100 payment recommended by our investigator does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that 
its inline with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
Im aware that the family members involved in these events feel that this level of 
compensation doesnt adequately compensate either the estate of Mrs P, or themselves, for 
what happened. But it must be noted that this complaint has been raised in the name of the 
estate of Mrs P, and that as such this service wouldnt consider any form of compensation 
for the family members personally, but only to the estate. And with regard the matter of 
compensating the estate of Mrs P, Im satisfied that in this instance, the amount of £100 can 
be considered as being both fair and reasonable.  
Finally, the estate of Mrs P has expressed its dissatisfaction with how the individual 
attorneys were spoken to in branch by the branch manager. Its difficult for me to comment 
on this matter as I wasnt present in branch and no recording of what was said exists. And, 
while I have no reason to dispute the testimony of the family members in this regard, as an 
impartial service, I dont feel that it would be fair to make any further award without being 
able to verify what was said.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that the estate of Mrs P wanted here, but it 
follows that Ill be upholding this complaint on the basis recommended by our investigator 
and instructing Lloyds to make a payment to the estate of Mrs P of £100. I hope that the 
estate of Mrs P will understand, given what I have explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment of £100 to the estate of Mrs P.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyd Bank PLC on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman