DRN-4314060
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Thatched Owners Insurance Services Limited (TOIS) 
renewed her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs W held a home insurance policy. It was taken out through TOIS and had been 
underwritten by an insurer, E, in 2019 and 2020.
At the July 2021 renewal, TOIS sent Mrs W policy documents which named E as the 
underwriter again. These documents included version 5 of the policy wording.
In May 2022, Mrs Ws building and contents were damaged by fire. She got in touch 
with TOIS to report the damage. It passed that onto the claim handler company, who 
appointed a loss adjuster. They accepted the claim and took steps to settle it.
During the claim, the loss adjuster sent Mrs W version 6 of the policy wording  
which is different to version 5 she received at renewal. In particular, it shows the 
insurer is G, not E. This became a key point of dispute.
In August 2022, the claim had been settled by paying cash, up to the index linked 
sum insured, for buildings, contents and alternative accommodation.
Mrs W complained that TOIS had sent her the wrong policy documents at the 2021 
renewal. She said this had caused problems during the claim.
In August 2022, TOIS said the information it shared was correct at the time of the 
renewal and it could only provide what the insurer had shared with it.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said TOIS had 
provided incorrect documents at the July 2021 renewal  but only because it hadnt 
been made aware by G that the documents were incorrect. It didnt find that out until 
October 2021. He thought G was ultimately responsible for any distress or 
inconvenience caused to Mrs W as a result of her receiving the wrong policy 
documents at the renewal, so he didnt ask TOIS to do anything further.
Mrs W disagreed, asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint, and provided 
further comments. Rather than summarising them here, Ill include anything I 
consider material to the complaint in the relevant sections of my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Mrs Ws submissions to this Service are extensive. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. Whilst that 
means I wont comment on everything the parties have said, I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties when reaching my decision.
Scope of the complaint
This complaint deals with the point Mrs W made in July 2022 and which was answered by 
TOIS in August 2022. In summary, that TOIS sent Mrs W the wrong policy documents. It 
also deals with the related point Mrs W later made, which is that TOIS should have sent the 
right documents once it became aware of the problem.
I know Mrs W has since raised another complaint with TOIS about other matters. I wont be 
considering those other matters here.
Was TOIS responsible for sending the wrong documents at the renewal?
In a separate complaint considering the actions of G, I found it became the underwriter of the 
policy at the July 2021 renewal. It took over from E, who by that point was no longer 
authorised to underwrite new or renewed insurance policies in the UK.
I also found that G knew this in early 2021 and should have provided TOIS with the updated 
policy wording for it to share with Mrs W at the renewal. As theres no evidence to show it did 
so, I found G was responsible for TOIS sending the wrong policy wording at the renewal  
and for any consequences which flowed from it. I considered those consequences in the 
separate complaint.
Mrs W has suggested TOIS should have checked with G and/or E prior to the renewal to 
ensure the policy remained correct. I agree that would have been helpful. But its hard to 
predict what the insurer(s) would have said at that time  and whether that would have 
materially changed things.
In my view, responsibility for this problem sits with G, not TOIS. G knew of the change, so in 
my view the onus was on it to tell TOIS. So I dont hold TOIS responsible for the 
consequences of it providing the wrong policy wording at the 2021 renewal.
Nonetheless, Ive thought below about the position if I found TOIS was responsible for 
sending the wrong policy documents to Mrs W.
Should TOIS have sent the right documents sooner?
TOIS says version 6 of the policy wording wasnt signed off until October 2021  after the 
renewal date. At that point, it ought to have been aware that the wrong policy document had 
been sent at the earlier renewal. And it ought to have told Mrs W about that promptly. Had it 
done so, she would have been aware about the change of policy wording and underwriter 
prior to the claim in May 2022.But Im not persuaded that would have made a significant difference overall. Mrs Ws main 
argument is that the contract of insurance is invalid as a result of what happened. Or, if it is 
valid, that she was initially told her policy was underwritten by E, so it was the insurer at the 
2021 renewal  not G  and it should have dealt with her claim.
I dont think these concerns would have been alleviated had she known about the change of 
policy wording and underwriter in, say, November 2021 rather than June 2022. Its likely she 
would still have had the same concerns about who the insurer was, which the correct policy 
wording was, and whether a valid contract of insurance was in place. So I think she would 
still have invested time expressing these concerns and seeking information about them.
Mrs W says being told about the change prior to the claim would have enabled her to get a 
new policy elsewhere and ensure she could be certain there was a valid contract of 
insurance in place.
I accept shes likely to have done that, given her clear strength of feeling and concern about 
having contractual certainty. Had she done so, its likely the claim would have progressed 
more smoothly without a dispute about the underwriter and policy wording to contend with. 
But compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused by that dispute has 
been considered under the separate complaint against G. So Im satisfied thats already 
been dealt with fairly.
Overall 
For the reasons given above, I dont think TOIS was responsible for sharing the wrong policy 
document at renewal. And whilst I think TOIS should have shared the right policy documents 
with Mrs W sooner than it did, Im not satisfied thats had a material impact on her  aside 
from what has been considered under the separate complaint against G.
Even if Im wrong about either of these findings, Im not persuaded it would change things. If 
I found TOIS was responsible for Mrs W having the wrong information at the time of the 
claim and this meant the insurance policy was invalid or the responsibility of E, Id have to 
consider what impact that had on Mrs W.
She understood she had a policy which provided cover up to certain limits  and the claim 
has been paid up to those limits. So I wouldnt find there was anything further to be paid 
toward the claim as a result of TOIS actions. And compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the uncertainty about the correct underwriter and policy wording 
has been considered under the separate complaint against G  so thats been dealt with.
So Im not going to require TOIS to pay Mrs W any compensation for this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman