DRN-3164332
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his motor insurer, Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
because when his windscreen smashed and couldnt be replaced, it wanted to settle the 
claim by paying him the last known price for the part, plus the cost of repair.
What happened
Mr H owns a number of classic cars, including a 1970s truck. In early November 2020 the 
windscreen on the truck broke and he made a claim to Markerstudy. He expected it to just 
replace the windscreen. But it became apparent that finding a replacement windscreen 
wasnt possible.
 
Markerstudy noted a term in the general damage part of the policy which it felt meant that as 
the part needed was obsolete it could settle the claim based on the last known list price for 
the part (plus labour for fitting). It calculated what that cost would be and deducted the 
excess that applies to the damage to windscreens part of the cover. Having done so it 
offered Mr H £252 to settle his claim. 
Mr H was unhappy. He pointed out that, as a result of the damage, his vehicle isnt 
roadworthy. He said the fair outcome would be for Markerstudy to settle his claim based on 
the total loss of the vehicle. But he still wanted to keep the vehicle so said hed be happy to 
pay an amount for its salvage value. Markerstudy wasnt prepared to change its offer, so 
Mr H complained to us.
Our investigator felt Markerstudy should settle based on the market value for the vehicle. But 
Markerstudy wasnt minded to agree to this. Although it said it would continue to try and 
source a part to replace the windscreen. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I felt Markerstudy should be settling Mr Hs claim based on the vehicles market value. But 
my reasoning differed from that set out by our investigator. And I also felt that, to reasonably 
put matters right, Markerstudy needs to pay Mr H compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. So I issued a provisional decision, which both parties have since replied to, 
accepting my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
In the first instance, Im not really persuaded that the policy term relating to obsolete parts 
which Markerstudy has sought to rely on really applies in this instance. For one thing, the 
excess Markerstudy applied is for windscreen claims  whilst the term it has sought to rely 
on applies to a different and specific part of the policy. It isnt a general exclusion and an 
insurer cant reasonably pick up a policy term like this and apply it to a different part of the 
policy. My other issue with using the term for obsolete parts in this instance is I dont think 
its really in the policy to cater for this type of situation. Rather the term seems to envisage 
that a replacement part is available somewhere in the world, and seeks to limit 
Markerstudys liability for the repair to the last known UK list price for it. It also seeks to 
remove Markerstudys liability for payment of import fees and charges. So I dont think that in 
drafting this term it was ever intended for a situation where the part is simply not available 
anywhere.
Which really brings me on to a more genera issue I have with Markerstudy seeking to limit its 
liability in this way in respect of this claim. Markerstudy entered into a contract with Mr H for 
cover for his vehicle. It was aware of the age of Mr Hs truck and accepted the risks to cover 
that truck when it quoted him a premium to insure it. The policy offers cover to indemnify 
Mr H in the event of a loss to his vehicle. He, quite reasonably, viewed that if his car was 
damaged, including damaged beyond repair, he would receive either a repair from 
Markerstudy, the cost of a repair to allow him to repair the car, or its market value where the 
first two options werent possible. In this case the first two options arent possible  but 
Markerstudy isnt prepared to offer the third. Where it isnt possible for Mr Hs vehicle to be 
repaired, it cant logically be fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to settle his claim based on 
the theoretical value the repair would have cost at the point the necessary parts were last 
available for purchase. That leaves Mr H with a car he cant drive and no immediate 
possibility for getting it roadworthy again.
To my mind, and regardless of the fact that this is technically a windscreen claim, the only 
fair and reasonable way for Markerstudy to deal with this matter is to settle with Mr H for the 
market value of his vehicle (in its undamaged state). I suspect that Markerstudy may feel this 
is unfair as it wouldnt envisage a damaged windscreen resulting in such a settlement. And 
I can understand that, as most damaged windscreens can be replaced. The windscreen for 
Mr Hs vehicle cant, seemingly because of its age. But Markerstudy was prepared to offer 
cover for this old vehicle and doing so always came with (for it) a foreseeable risk that 
finding replacement parts would likely be problematic. But as Im saying the settlement 
should be based on the vehicles market value (making it a total loss), I think its only fair to 
say that Markerstudy can apply the policys general excess. The market value settlement 
can also be made net of the limited settlement amount already paid. But it will incur interest*.
On this occasion Im going to require Markerstudy to apply interest to the market value 
settlement from 1 December 2020, until settlement is made. I think that is fair because whilst 
Mr Hs claim was made in early November 2020, the age of his car meant sourcing parts 
might take longer than for a younger car. But I see from Markerstudys notes that by the end 
of November 2020 it felt it had exhausted all possible options for sourcing a screen. So 
I think, at that time, it should have moved to settle on a market value basis, and if it had Mr H 
would have had the benefit of a market value settlement around 1 December 2020.
I note Mr H has had to ensure his vehicle is weather tight whilst this dispute has gone on. 
And I think he was understandably upset by Markerstudys limited offer. I also understand its 
been frustrating and upsetting for him to see his vehicle sat unused whilst he has no means 
to repair or replace it and the dispute with Markerstudy has been on-going. For the distress 
and inconvenience Markerstudy have caused Mr H, I think it should pay him £300 
compensation.
As both parties have accepted my findings, Ive no need to change or add to them. My 
provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy to:Provide a settlement to Mr H for the market value of his vehicle, less the general policy 
excess and less the settlement already paid. But plus interest* from 1 December 2020 
until the settlement is made.
Pay Mr H £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr H, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman