DRN-3315691
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the decision of GHE Solar Limited in relation to the claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The claim related to a credit agreement 
entered as part of a Green Deal Plan in relation to the installation of solar panels.
What happened
Mrs P is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity, I have just 
referred to the actions and submissions her representative took as her own. The following is 
intended merely as a brief summary of the complaint history and submissions. 
In 2015, Mrs P entered a Green Deal Plan. The plan involved the installation of solar panels 
on her property. The panels were to be paid for, in part, by a loan agreement provided by 
GHE under the Green Deal finance scheme. This loan was for just over £4,000, and was 
repayable over a period of almost 23 years. Due to the interest added over this period, 
around £8,600 was repayable in total on this loan. 
The upfront cost of the solar panels was £6,000 though and it appears the remaining £2,000 
of the purchase price was to be met by a second loan GHE was to provide. The repayment 
of this loan was to be made by way of Mrs P assigning the rights to the feed-in-tariff (FIT) to 
GHE for 10 years. The FIT is the amount a person is paid by their energy provider for 
selling the surplus energy their solar panels produce. By assigning the rights to this, Mrs P 
seems to have been granting GHE the right to the money the energy provider would pay for 
selling this surplus energy. However, soon after the panels had been installed, it appears 
GHE reassigned the FIT rights to Mrs P. 
In 2019, Mrs P contacted GHE to raise a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. She alleged that the supplier of the solar panels had 
misrepresented the benefits of having the panels to her. She said that she had been told she 
could have the panels fitted without they system costing her any money. She also said that 
she had been tricked into signing a piece of paper, without realising this was a loan 
agreement. 
GHE responded, via its own representative. It declined the claim, saying that there had been 
no misrepresentation and that Mrs P had benefitted from having the solar panel system. 
Mrs P complained about this and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs P hadnt been aware that she was entering a loan agreement. And 
she was not persuaded that the arrangement had been to Mrs Ps financial detriment. 
As Mrs P remained unsatisfied, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that there are two key questions in terms of this complaint. Firstly, was Mrs P 
aware she was entering a loan. Secondly, where the benefits of the arrangement 
misrepresented to her. 
It would have been helpful in answering both of these questions to have had the full 
cooperation of GHE. However, despite multiple requests from this service, GHE has 
provided almost no evidence. Apart from some limited commentary, GHE has merely 
provided a report generated in 2022 which gives details of what a system installed at Mrs Ps 
property could be expected to produce, and some figures that apparently show how much 
energy the system that was installed did produce up to September 2019. GHE has provided 
no information to us about the actual sale of the Green Deal loan. 
This is not what would be expected from a company regulated by the FCA and subject to the 
FCAs rules. It is potentially a failure in terms of the FCAs rule DISP 1.4.4 R. However, it is 
not for this service to regulate or penalise a respondent business. My role is limited to 
determining whether Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. And, despite GHEs failure to 
respond to this services requests, I consider that I have enough information to determine 
Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mrs P has been able to provide, amongst other things, copies of the Green Deal loan 
agreement, the additional loan agreement, the installation agreement and certificate, a sales 
leaflet, and a letter confirming the FIT rights were being reassigned to her. 
Mrs P says that she was not aware that she was entering an agreement to have the panels 
installed and to enter the loan agreements. Shes said she only signed a document to 
confirm that the salesman had attended her property, not that she had agreed to a purchase. 
But it seems that she then allowed workmen to access her property and install the panels 
and meter. I dont think she would have done this had she not wanted the panels. And I think 
the agreements she has provided make it clear that she was entering a loan to pay for these 
panels. So, I am not persuaded it is more likely than not that she was unaware she was 
entering the loan agreement.
Mrs P has said the benefits of the system were misrepresented to her. And that she was told 
the panels would not come at a cost to her, and that she would benefit from having them. 
I note the sales leaflet she was provided indicates that the panels would be fitted at zero cost 
and that she would benefit from FIT payments of £500 per year from year 10. The figure of 
£500 is marked by an asterisk, but the document provided to this service does not include 
any detail of what this might signify. It seems likely to me that some qualification of this sum 
was provided, but I am not able to determine what this was. The timeframe for this benefit to 
happen corresponds with that of the additional loan agreement that was initially entered. So, 
it does seem that the intention was that the system would provide these benefits to Mrs P 
once the term of that loan had expired. Ultimately, the loan was waived by GHE a few 
months after the arrangement was entered and the FIT rights were returned to Mrs P. 
The figures GHE has provided this service indicate that the FIT payments Mrs P has 
received since that time equate to around £500 per year. These figures are unverified, but 
Mrs P has not disputed them. So, I think it is likely the system is generating FIT payments of 
around £500 per annum, as was suggested would be achieved at the point of sale. As such, 
it does not seem this aspect was misrepresented. 
However, in addition to this, one of the requirements of a Green Deal Plan arrangement is that the system must not come at an overall cost to the customer  at least not in the first 
year. This principle is known as the golden rule and it forms part of the legislative 
provisions governing Green Deal Plans. Regulation 30 of the Green Deal Framework 
(Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) Regulations 2012 states: 
The first year instalments must not exceed the estimated first year savings
This is effectively what Mrs P says she was told about the system  that it would come at no 
cost to her. I have considered whether this rule was met. 
As Mrs P is receiving the payments from the FIT rights it seems most likely that the 
arrangement is not coming at a net cost to her. GHE has said the payments from these 
rights are around £500 each year, and Mrs P has not suggested otherwise. So, this alone 
would more than cover the annual cost of the Green Deal loan. Additionally, Mrs P will 
benefit from being able to use some of the energy the solar panels produce. This will reduce 
her need to buy this energy from her provider, further increasing the benefits of the system. 
Mrs P has provided a photo apparently showing the amount of energy produced by the 
system within the first 6 years after installation was far below that which was estimated 
would be produced. Mrs P has said the photo is from 2021, but it is not dated in any way. 
And it disagrees with the figures GHE has provided. Neither party has provided substantial 
further information to corroborate their evidence. Mrs P has provided some recent energy 
bills, but it unclear how these would evidence the energy her system produces nor the 
amount she has received in FIT payments. The amount of FIT payments she has received 
would be something available to her, but this hasnt been provided. So, I think it more likely 
than not that the amount she has received from this is in line with the figures provided by 
GHE.
It may be that Mrs Ps actual energy bills have increased since the time the arrangement 
was entered. But I think this is more likely due to changes in her usage or the increased cost 
of energy generally. Ultimately, I dont think this demonstrates that the arrangement she 
entered with GHE has caused her a financial detriment. And I dont consider she has shown 
that the benefits of the system were misrepresented to her. 
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded that Mrs P was unaware she was 
entering a loan agreement and I am also not persuaded she has shown the arrangement 
has caused her a financial detriment, so I dont think the benefits of the system were 
misrepresented to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman