DRN-3598741
The complaint
Mr and Ms B have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms B were sold the policy in November 1997 around the same time as arranging the 
mortgage. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr B for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms B disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. However, that does make it more difficult to investigate the complaint. In 
reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence we do have, together with what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Ms B say they didnt know they had PPI on the mortgage account  meaning that it 
was added without their knowledge or consent. 
I have no doubt that Mr and Ms B have provided their genuine recollection of events. But the 
sale was in 1997 and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded somewhat, 
which is something that I have to take into account.
Mortgage interviews are usually quite long meetings with various insurance options being 
discussed alongside the mortgage itself. I think there probably was some discussion about 
PPI because it was set up just to cover Mr B, so there seems to have been some 
consideration of how the policy would work best for them. Had the PPI been added without 
any discussion, I might have expected it to be set up as a joint policy to reflect the joint 
mortgage. From what we know of HSBCs sales process at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Mr B says he never took out PPI with any other product. Ive thought very carefully about this 
but, on balance, Im not persuaded its enough for me to conclude that he didnt decide to 
buy it in this instance. A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr and Ms B had an interest in protecting their repayments. On balance, I 
consider that Mr and Mrs B probably chose to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have 
to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Its likely that this was an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending the policy to Mr and Ms 
B, HSBC needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
Mr B would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr B would have received full 
pay for. Mr B says he had a life and critical illness policy. But that was covering a different 
set of risks and so the PPI was not duplicating any existing cover.
Mr and Ms B have told us they had some savings. But having the policy would have meant 
that they could retain these or use them to cover other outgoings. Mrs B was also working. 
However, having the mortgage repayments covered would have meant that her salary would 
stretch further. Theyve said that their parents would have helped but having the policy would 
have avoided the need to ask family to pay your mortgage repayments for you. 
Mr and Ms B say they are both fit and healthy and that Mr B has never been out of work. But 
the purpose of insurance is to provide cover for unforeseen events. The fact they have never 
needed to claim on the policy doesnt make it unsuitable.
Overall I consider that Mr and Ms B had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from 
it at what would have been a difficult time. 
HSBC also needed to provide Mr and Ms B with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. Its possible that HSBC 
could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly about the things that it 
didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded under the policy. As I 
consider that Mr and Ms B had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have done wrong, so there is nothing that HSBC 
needs to do to put things right.
Mr B has talked about industry-wide mis-selling of PPI. However, we look at complaints on a 
case by case basis. I know Mr and Ms B will be disappointed but Im unable to conclude that 
HSBC mis-sold them mortgage PPI.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman