DRN-3492146
The complaint
Mr K complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mishandled his claim on a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Allianz, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Allianz 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2014. 
I will refer to it as Mr Ks car, although he has said he owed money on a finance agreement 
for it.
In October 2019, a company of which Mr K was a director had the car insured on a mini-fleet 
policy with Allianz.
On about 20 October 2019, someone took the car, caused a police chase and hit a third 
partys vehicle. Mr Ks car was found at the scene of the accident with Mr Ks key in the 
ignition.
By a letter dated early September 2020, Allianz declined to pay the claim.
Mr K complained to Allianz that it should pay his claim. By a final response dated November 
2020, Allianz turned down the complaint.
Mr K brought his complaint to us in April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was fair for Allianz to repudiate the claim.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The key could have fallen out of his pocket.
The driver got prosecuted for dangerous driving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianzs policy terms included the following:
We shall not be liable to pay for -
5 Loss of or damage to the Insured Vehicle arising from the theft or attempted theft 
whilst the Insured Vehicle is unlocked or whilst the ignition key or other removable 
ignition device has been left in or on the Insured Vehicle.
Thats not an unusual term insofar as it relates to a key in the car. In relation to that, I 
wouldnt find it unfair for Allianz to rely on that term, unless there was evidence that Mr K 
was near enough to the car to prevent or deter a thief from taking the car.
Also, I wouldnt find it unfair for Allianz to decline a claim if there wasnt enough evidence 
that the uninsured driver had stolen the car (or taken it without the owners consent) before 
the accident.
Allianz instructed investigators to look into the circumstances leading to Mr Ks claim. Based 
on the investigation, Allianzs letter of early September 2020 set out 13 detailed paragraphs 
leading to the conclusion that the key must have either been given to the driver or left in the 
car.
Mr K hasnt said that there was a prosecution of the driver for stealing the car or taking it 
without the owners consent. And I dont consider that a prosecution of the driver for 
dangerous driving would help Mr Ks claim.
Mr K has told us that the key couldve fallen out of his pocket. But he didnt respond to 
Allianz or to us in the level of detail required to deal with Allianzs letter. 
So I dont consider that Allianz treated Mr K unfairly by declining his claim and turning down 
his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Allianz Insurance Plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman