DRN-2874792
The complaint
Ms K complains that Cash Converters Yorkshire Limited unfairly sold jewellery shed pawned 
in return for a loan.
What happened
In 2017 Ms K pawned several items of jewellery at a Cash Converters branch in return for a 
fixed sum loan. This agreement was extended several times and was due to be repaid in 
January 2020. 
Ms K telephoned Cash Converters at the end of January 2020 and was told they had written 
to let her know her repayment was due. At Ms Ks request, Cash Converters agreed to 
extend her loan until April 2020. During the phone call, it also came to light that Ms K no 
longer lived at the address they had on file. As such, she was asked to visit her local branch 
with identification in order to update her address. 
In December 2020, Ms K phoned the branch and was informed her jewellery had been sold. 
She complained but Cash Converters didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd agreed 
to hold the items until April 2020, and acknowledged they were closed between March and 
June 2020 due to the Covid 19 pandemic. But they said they had attempted to phone Ms K 
once they re-opened but to no avail.  They said they didnt write because Ms Ks address 
hadnt been updated. Cash Converters said they sold Ms Ks jewellery as they had no 
contact from her.
Ms K brought her complaint to our service and says: 
she hasnt lived at the address they wrote to since 2017,
Cash Converters had the correct address as she has always used a bill with her 
current address as identification. And, she had given the correct address when 
entering other agreements at the same store, 
she expected Cash Converters to send another letter, but they didnt,
she tried to phone during the national lockdown and was told to email, but she 
doesnt use email.
Our investigator didnt think Cash Converters had done anything wrong. He said Ms K was 
aware her address needed updating and her items would be held until April 2020 before 
Cash Converters would look to sell it. Ms K doesnt agree with the investigator and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
Cash Converters said they sold the various items of jewellery between August and October 
2020, but Ms K doesnt think they should have. So, what I must decide is whether they acted 
reasonably in selling Ms Ks jewellery when they did.
The terms of Ms Ks agreement say that if the items arent redeemed within the specified 
period of the loan, they may be sold by Cash Converters. Ms Ks loan was due to be repaid 
in January 2020 and an extension was agreed until April 2020. Ms K didnt redeem the 
jewellery during the original term, the extension period or at the end. So, under the terms of 
the agreement, Cash Converters were entitled to sell them to recoup what theyd lent her, 
and the interest that was due.
The terms also require Cash Converters as the lenders to give 14 days notice of their 
intention to sell. And I find they did this when they wrote to Ms K in December 2019, so I 
think they fulfilled this obligation to her. 
Theyve told us due to the national lockdown their branches were closed between March and 
June 2020, so I dont think Ms K would have been able to pay off her loan when it became 
due in April as the terms indicate she needed to visit the branch to do so. However, once 
branches reopened, their contact notes show they phoned Ms K in late July, but their efforts 
were unsuccessful. The notes also show they phoned on two different telephone numbers in 
an attempt to notify her of their intention to sell her jewellery. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Cash Converters did all they could to inform Ms K before they sold the items. 
The jewellery wasnt sold until August 2020, so I think Ms K was given a reasonable amount 
of time to make the repayment, or at the very least contact Cash Converters to make 
arrangements to do so.   
Ms K says shed provided Cash Converters with the correct address and they had put the 
wrong details on her agreement. She also says she later went into the branch with up to date 
identification and her address should have been changed but it wasnt done. I appreciate  
Ms K would like to provide evidence to prove shed given Cash Converters her new address, 
but I dont think it changes my decision. I say this because, irrespective of what address they 
were given, Im satisfied Ms K was informed that the address they held was incorrect. This is 
because, when Ms K phoned, she was told that the address on record didnt match the one 
she had given during the phone call. So, I think the onus was on Ms K to update her details 
once she was aware.
As her address hadnt been updated on the system, Cash Converters said they had data 
protection concerns and so didnt write to her. Cash Converters have a duty to keep their 
customers personal information safe. Ms K made it clear that she no longer lived at the 
address they had on file, so I dont think their decision not to write to her previous address 
was an unreasonable one. 
Ms K says she phoned the support centre during the national lockdown and was met with an 
automated message asking her to email them her query. I appreciate Ms K may not use 
email as a means of communication, and this would have made it difficult to update her 
address or to make arrangements to pay her loan once the lockdown was in place. But I dont think it matters here. Ms K was aware her loan was due to be repaid in April 2020 and 
her jewellery would be sold if it wasnt. Once stores re-opened, I think Ms K could have 
visited or phoned her local branch sooner than she did. I cant see that she made contact 
with Cash Converters until around five months after their stores opened, by which point her 
jewellery had been sold.
I know this will be disappointing to Ms K, but in light of all that Ive mentioned above, I find 
Cash Converters decision to sell her jewellery was fair and reasonable. And Im satisfied 
they did enough to make her aware before they were sold. As such, I wont tell them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman