DRN-1597445
 
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her car insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss S made a claim under her car insurance policy after she was involved in an accident 
with a lorry on a roundabout. There were delays in dealing with her claim and it was 
eventually settled on a split liability basis (50/50). 
Miss S wasnt happy about this as she believed she hadnt done anything wrong and felt the 
other driver was at fault. Advantage looked into this. It acknowledged it shouldve been more 
proactive in chasing the third party for any possible dashcam footage and offered £75 
compensation for this. But as Miss S wasnt happy she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold her complaint. She acknowledged that 
Advantage shouldve chased the other insurer for the dashcam footage. But as there was no 
way of knowing if it wouldve helped Miss S, in proving she wasnt at fault or not, she thought 
its offer of compensation was fair.
As Miss S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Miss Ss frustration here. She was involved in an accident with a lorry and 
the incident was clearly traumatic. However, as the investigator explained it isnt the role of 
this service to decide which side was at fault for causing the accident, only a court of law 
can do that. 
The insurance companies representing both sides can also agree between themselves 
which party is more likely to be deemed at fault for causing the accident. Its only when the 
insurers disagree on this  the matter goes to court. Its fairly rare insurers dont agree, since 
they deal with these issues daily as part of their business and are fully aware of what a court 
is likely to decide in most circumstances. In this instance they decided that liability would be 
split between both sides.
The policy terms allow Advantage to take over the settlement of the claim. This gives it the 
right to decide whether to take the other side to court or settle a claim. Legal proceedings 
are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain. As such, it isnt always 
commercially sensible to take legal action. However, this services general approach is that insurers should act fairly and reasonably in deciding whether to settle or pursue a third party. 
We expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of 
the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. 
In line with this Ive carefully considered how Advantage has handled this claim. Im satisfied 
it carried out a reasonable investigation into the claim and took into consideration all of the 
available evidence. 
Although I agree it wouldve been helpful to have any dashcam footage that was available it 
is impossible to be sure what it wouldve shown. It is very difficult to establish blame when 
two vehicles collide on a roundabout. And in this instance Miss Ss car has come into 
contact with the side of the lorry. So, although it is likely that dashcam footage wouldve 
been helpful it is unlikely to have shown the impact as the collision was to the side of the 
lorry. Furthermore, there hasnt been any confirmation that the dashcam was actually 
working or available. And as no one can be sure what it may  have shown I cant say 
Advantage has acted unreasonably here. 
Turning to the level of compensation offered by Advantage for its failure to chase the third-
party insurer for the dashcam footage earlier. I think its offer of £75 is fair. I can understand 
why Miss S wants more. But there was always going to be a fair degree of stress involved in 
advancing a claim like this and I think Advantages offer is fair for its failing here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman