DRN-1948263
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Ltd (Tesco) declined his claim for damage to his 
home caused by an escape of water.
What happened
Mr H had buildings and contents insurance with Tesco for a self-contained extension 
attached to his home, in which a vulnerable member of his family lived. Although some 
actions described here were those of his family, for ease, Ill refer to Mr H throughout my 
decision unless I think its material to the outcome. 
Mr H also has a complaint about the sale of the policy. For clarity, that is a separate matter 
and my decision relates only to the claim and how it was handled. However, I may refer to 
the sale for context.
Mr H reported an escape of water to Tesco. He said the water was damaging the floor and 
creeping up the wall. His plumber found the source of the leak and completed a repair to 
prevent further damage. The plumber identified two sources and thought one had been a 
slow drip. Mr H asked Tesco if he was covered for the damage caused and for temporary 
alternative accommodation for his family member. He said he had found a builder who would 
be able to start work the next day. Tesco confirmed both were covered under his policy but 
advised Mr H not to go ahead with any work until the claim had been referred to its 
underwriter.
Tesco asked Mr H to send in photos of the damage and room dimensions, which he did. It 
also asked whether the family member could stay with him. Mr H explained that, due to 
health reasons, that wasnt possible, and his family member had moved into a care home 
temporarily. 
Two weeks later, and after Mr H had chased an update, Tesco declined his claim. Initially it 
said the policy shouldnt have been in place for the extension, but then explained that it 
declined the claim because the damage wasnt caused by a one-off event. 
Mr H complained about the way Tesco had handled his claim and its decision not to cover 
the damage. He incurred repair costs to make his home habitable so he could bring his 
family member back, and he also incurred the care home costs, both of which he understood 
he was covered for under his policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that Tesco hadnt told Mr H he might be 
liable for the cost of the care home if he went ahead before it authorised the claim. And while 
she agreed that it had told Mr H not to do any repair work until the claim had been 
authorised, our investigator didnt think the reason Tesco gave for declining it was fair. Our 
investigator thought Tesco should pay the claim and make an additional payment of £300 to 
Mr H for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Tesco didnt agree. It provided the call recordings of the conversations it had with Mr H and 
remained of the view that the water damage wasnt caused by a one-off event.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
It is Mr Hs responsibility to demonstrate that an insured event has happened. In this case, I 
dont think theres any dispute that his home was damaged due to the escape of water and 
the photos he sent to Tesco were evidence of that. Unless Tesco could show that an 
exclusion applied, there would be no reason for it to decline the claim. 
Tesco declined the claim because the damage was caused by an ongoing leak which Mr H 
ought to have been aware of. It concluded this from looking at the photos he provided and 
referencing indicators, such as the salt marks. Ive looked at the photos, but I cant draw a 
similar conclusion. I dont claim to be an expert in building repairs, nor am I expected to be, 
but I dont think a simple review of the photos was an adequate assessment of the damage 
in the circumstances.
Mr H said his family member told him there was a puddle on the bathroom floor. I think that if 
there had been other evidence of the leak before that, its unlikely Mr H wouldve ignored it 
knowing how this would affect his family. If the damage was caused by an ongoing leak, and 
therefore happening over time, I think its more likely that there was no evidence and Mr H 
wouldnt reasonably have been aware of it. 
I note that Tesco didnt send anyone out to inspect the damage, so it doesnt have expert 
findings to support its decision. But given the question of the validity of the policy, and the 
urgent repairs needed so that Mr H could bring his family member home, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable to obtain an expert report to bring certainty to this matter. In the absence of 
that certainty, I think that, on balance, Tesco hasnt shown that the exclusion clause applies 
here. Therefore, I think it was unfair to decline Mr Hs claim for the reasons it gave.
As Ive decided that it was unfair to decline the claim, Ive thought about whether Tesco 
should cover the cost of the alternative accommodation. Ive listened to the calls and Mr H 
mentions the care home and the cost a couple of times. I dont think Tesco said it would 
cover the cost; nor did it say it wouldnt. In fact, beyond asking whether it was possible for 
his family to live in Mr Hs home, the matter wasnt really acknowledged. At one point in a 
call, Mr H made it clear that he was incurring costs for the care home, and then changed his 
comment to, or rather you (Tesco) should be. Tesco didnt respond. If it didnt think it would 
be covering the cost, I think that was an opportune moment to say so.
Looking at Tescos investigation notes, it seems that there was a concern right from when he 
made a claim that the policy shouldnt have been sold to Mr H. As Ive said previously, Im 
not looking into the sale. However, it appears that the uncertainty may have affected the way 
Tesco handled this claim. It seems to me, from looking at the notes, that care was being 
taken not to say that the policy might be cancelled. I think its possible that in focussing on 
that, Tesco failed to respond as fully or accurately as it mightve done to Mr Hs questions 
about accommodation. Tesco did, however, tell Mr H quite clearly that he shouldnt complete 
any repair works until the claim had been authorised. I see no reason why Tesco couldnt 
have done the same with the alternative accommodation. So, given that Tesco hasnt provided any evidence that it warned Mr H that he may be liable for the care home costs, I 
think its fair for it to cover the cost in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator thought compensation of £300 was warranted for the shortfall in service, 
and for the upset caused. I agree. Tesco delayed telling Mr H his claim was declined, it failed 
to give him complete and accurate information about what he would be covered for, and it 
based its decision on the photos he provided without sending anyone to investigate the 
cause of the damage. In the circumstances, and knowing that Mr H had a vulnerable family 
member affected by the damage, I think Tesco couldve handled the claim better. I can 
understand that Mr H and his family wouldve been inconvenienced and upset by this matter 
and I think compensation of £300 in recognition of that is fair.
Overall, I dont think it was fair for Tesco to rely on Mr Hs photos of the water damage to 
decline his claim for the reasons it gave. And while its clear he incurred some alternative 
accommodation costs, given the delay in telling Mr H his claim was declined, and its failure 
to tell him he might be liable for the costs, I think its fair for Tesco to settle the claim and pay 
Mr H £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Tesco Underwriting Ltd should:
pay Mr Hs claim for loss caused by the escape of water in his home, and
pay him £300 compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused by the way it 
handled his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman