DRN-4216499
The complaint
Mr W and the estate of Mrs W say that Shawbrook Bank Limited, who Ill refer to as
Shawbrook, should uphold claims they have made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare they were sold.
Mr W and the estate of Mrs W have been represented by a professional representative who
Ill refer to as PR. Where I refer to Mr W and the estate of Mrs Ws submissions I include
those made on their behalf.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
In February 2006 Mr W and the late Mrs W purchased 2,000 points towards a timeshare
product with a company I will call S. They financed the cost of the points through a fixed
sum loan with a finance provider Ill call G. That finance agreement was regulated by the
CCA.
In July 2016 Shawbrook acquired Mr W and Mrs Ws account from G and assumed the
obligations that G had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints
relating to the servicing of the account. Shawbrook are now, therefore, the correct
respondent for this complaint. As some of the actions and submissions have been
taken/made by G, and some have been taken by Shawbrook, to save confusion, I will simply
refer to the lender in this decision.
PR made their claim to the lender in December 2019. They said the agreement had been
misrepresented to Mr W and the late Mrs W and they therefore had a claim under section 75
of the CCA. They also claimed there was an unfair relationship and therefore raised a claim
under s140A of the CCA.
Our investigator thought the claim under section 75 had been raised out of time in
accordance with the Limitation Act (1980) and he didnt think there was sufficient evidence of
an unfair relationship.
The PR disagreed. They expanded the complaint and raised several new issues that hadnt
previously been referred to the lender and they made further representations on some of the
issues that they had originally raised. They asked for a decision by an ombudsman and the
complaint has therefore been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the original investigator
provided his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues that were raised with
the lender.
I was very sorry to hear that Mrs W had passed away and Id like to offer my condolences to
Mr W.
I note that the PR expanded on the complaint in their response to this Service in July 2022.
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to
the business first. Ill consider here the complaint points raised with the lender in December
2019, which were subsequently referred to this Service in January 2020. If Mr W and the
estate of Mrs W wish to pursue any new complaint points theyll need to refer them to
Shawbrook to consider first.
Turning to the aspects of the complaint that the lender has already had a chance to
consider, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr W and the estate of Mrs W, I think their claim
under section 75 has been made too late and I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me
to uphold the other elements of the claim.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between the consumer and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr W and the estate of Mrs W may have
under sections 75 or 140A, only a court can do that, but Im required to take them into
account when deciding whether the lender were reasonable to reject the claims.A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against the lender had to be made within six
years of when Mr W and the late Mrs W had everything they needed to make such a claim.
And in this complaint, I think that was when they purchased the timeshare at the Time of
Sale (February 2006). After all, they say they entered into the agreement to purchase the
timeshare because of misrepresentations. And as the upshot of the claim was that they
would not have made the purchase but for the misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was
at that time that they suffered a loss because they ended up borrowing money from the
lender. So, they had until February 2012 to raise a section 75 claim. As they didnt do so
until December 2019, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be
postponed in keeping with the Limitation Act (1980), I think its likely a court would consider
the section 75 claim to be time barred. That would give the lender a complete defence to it.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). If a court
decides a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship it can make orders that can include
imposing different terms on the parties and refunding payments.
If a credit agreement started after 6 April 2007 or, if it started before that date, and it ended
after 6 April 2008, it is possible to make a claim under Section 140A in relation to that credit
agreement.
As the loan agreement was entered into in February 2006 and it ended after 6 April 2008,
section 140A does apply to this agreement.
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr W or the late Mrs Ws ability to
exercise choice was significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of
breaks, and the lack of time alone to think, that they say they experienced.
The PR have referred me to Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 (CPUT Regulations) which seems to expand on the everyday definition of
pressure. Those Regulations post-date the timeshare and credit agreements and it wouldnt
be fair for me to suggest they applied in this case. However, I dont think Ive been provided
with sufficient information to suggest Mr W, or the late Mrs W, didnt understand they didnt
have to say yes to the agreement or that they didnt understand they could walk away
without entering into it. They had, after all, been to a presentation before when they initially
signed up for a timeshare and I think this was likely to be a similar one. The finance
agreement also provided a 14 day cooling off period and I think, even if Mr W or the late
Mrs W werent allowed much time to think during the presentation, the cooling off period
allowed them to reflect and withdraw from the loan if they wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the consumers ability to exercise choice was  or was likely
to have been  significantly impaired.The PR has explained that Regulation 14 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 states that a trader must not offer an opportunity to
enter into a regulated contract to a consumer at a promotion or sales event, unless the
invitation to the event clearly indicates the commercial purpose and nature of the event.
Those Regulations also post-dated Mr W and the late Mrs Ws application by about four
years, so it wouldnt be fair to suggest S were obliged to follow them. And, even if there was
an obligation to indicate the commercial purpose of the event, barring Mr W and the late
Mrs Ws testimony, Ive not seen corroboration that was the case, and as Mr W and the late
Mrs W had already been members of the scheme I think its likely that the nature of the
event would have been clear to them.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. I dont think
the fact that the lender may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with its
role in the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr W or the late Mrs W but
as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in
relation to the loan, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make
an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr W or the late Mrs W advice or
information on that basis. Whats more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the
typical amounts of commission paid by G to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were
interest bearing (as was the case on this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an
unfair debtor-creditor relationship given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think
its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an
unfair relationship under s.140A.
Unaffordable lending
Mr W and the estate of Mrs W say that the lender didnt perform adequate credit checks or
review their credit file when approving the loan, and that they didnt conform to the relevant
guidance on lending.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr W or the late Mrs W
suffered a loss as a result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest they
didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan,
and I dont therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible
when providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments
Neither party provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider before making 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I was not provided with any additional comments or evidence I have not found reason to 
change my provisional decision, and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman