DRN-3016113
The complaint
Mr J has complained Cumberland Building Society wont refund him more than £6,480 for 
five transactions which he didnt authorise.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr J was abroad with friends. He went out drinking on 20 February. He 
went into a club with a friend after drinking free shots on entry. Mr J believes the shots were 
spiked and this has led to him not being completely sure what happened next.
He knows he spent some time in the club and was eventually chucked out after being unable 
to pay or querying what he was paying. Cumberland processed five debit card payments on 
Mr Js account but stopped a transaction around 04.45 for more than £7,660. By that stage 
there were insufficient funds in his account. Cumberland texted Mr J asking him to get in 
touch.
He phoned Cumberland the morning he received the text. He found out the value of the five 
transactions that had debited his account. Mr J admitted to having had quite a bit to drink. 
He couldnt immediately recall whether the club staff had taken his card from him or whether 
hed authorised the transactions himself by inputting the PIN. He was sure that hed never 
have willingly authorised transactions for over £1,000 if hed known about them. Mr J 
reported what had happened to police overseas but didnt get any feeling this would be 
resolved as hed want.
Cumberland were sceptical about Mr Js story. They didnt think he seemed incoherent on 
the phone although Mr J still felt woozy. They felt overall Mr J had authorised the 
transactions by inputting his PIN. And even if he hadnt, they werent convinced hed taken 
reasonable care of his card and PIN in line with his accounts terms and conditions.
Mr J brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He couldnt see how Cumberland 
could know exactly what had happened so didnt think they could hold him liable for the 
transactions.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He felt it was most likely Mr J had consented to the 
disputed transactions. He also didnt think Cumberland should have taken any further steps 
to stop these transactions.
Mr J was upset by this conclusion. He couldnt understand how under the PSRs what had 
happened could be considered as consent. He remained convinced based on how ill he 
continued to feel for some time afterwards that his drinks had been spiked. He asked an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 22 July 2021. I believed there was enough evidence to 
suggest Mr J had authorised the transactions but I felt overall Cumberland should have 
picked up what was going on and stopped some of the payments. I was intending to ask 
Cumberland to reimburse almost £5,000 to Mr J.
Cumberland didnt respond to the PD.
Mr J was largely happy with the outcome but didnt think there was enough explanation to 
say why I believed what hed done amounted to consent. He didnt believe this was possible 
by merely entering the PIN.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
The basis for considering this complaint
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make without undue delay, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Cumberland should fairly and reasonably:
have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.Having carefully considered all of this, I consider that there were reasonable grounds for 
Cumberland to suspect potential fraudulent use of Mr Js debit card and Im not persuaded 
that it took proactive steps to protect Mr Js account. 
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Cumberland and 
Mr J. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators views of 8 November 2020 and 16 April 
2021 but feel no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to 
those aspects which drive the decision Im making. This includes taking into account Mr Js 
final comments in his email to our service on 24 July 2021.
What happened?
I think the following aspects are pertinent to this complaint:
Theres no dispute Mr J was in a club at the time of these transactions. 
I dont doubt Mr J believes he was drugged, perhaps felt threatened and cant recall 
clearly what happened. Hes not sure whether he entered the PIN himself or whether 
people running the bar did this on his behalf. I accept there would have been an 
opportunity for them to see Mr J enter his PIN or for Mr J to have told them his PIN. 
This is certainly a possibility Ive considered.
It seems clear he either didnt pay attention to the amount showing on the card 
terminal so didnt know what he was being charged. Or he accepted what he was told 
in the bar that what was showing was the foreign currency amount. Or as he states 
he wasnt in a state to be aware of the amount. Mr Js most recent email confirms he 
has no recollection whatsoever of entering my PIN that night. However I still think 
its most likely Mr J used his PIN.
By using his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal or even whether 
Mr J was so drunk or drugged he didnt notice what it said, Mr J was consenting to 
the transactions. I know Mr J disputes this finding.
I disagree with Cumberland. I believe Mr Js story is consistent and credible. The fact 
he wasnt sure what happened comes over in both his and Cumberlands detailed 
testimony.
Our service is aware the bar involved has been subject to a number of very similar 
complaints: over-charging, or misleading customers about what they were paying.
Cumberland hasnt dismissed Mr Js story in its entirety but has relied on both the 
PSRs and their terms and conditions to support their outcome.
There are two aspects to authorisation under the PSRs: authentication and consent. 
Authentication means the genuine card and correct PIN were used and consent means that 
Mr J entered the PIN himself. I appreciate Mr J believes consent must involve knowledge of 
the amount. However there is nothing specific under the PSRs to confirm this and nor, in 
general without other evidence, is that the approach our service takes.
I dont dispute Mr J has told us he wouldnt have entered his PIN if hed been aware of the 
value of the transactions but that alone doesnt mean he didnt consent to the actual 
transactions.
Mr J has said he may have entered his PIN whenever the terminal was presented to him so I 
dont think its a stretch to say  under the PSRs  he consented to the transactions. It would be difficult to say otherwise as he has no memory of what actually happened. On balance I 
believe its most likely Mr J entered his PIN. Otherwise how would the bar have known his 
PIN?
Because I believe Mr J authorised these transactions, Cumberland had an obligation to 
follow Mr Js instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Should Cumberland have done more?
There are two aspects of Mr Js complaint which I consider Cumberland should have acted 
on, considering good industry practice like the BSI code of practice.
The first is the value of the disputed transactions. The five transactions were for increasing 
amounts: £588.69; £884.05; £1,119.93; £1,401.18 and £2,490.85. Having reviewed Mr Js 
recent account statements around this time, theres no dispute these transactions were 
extremely unusual and rose substantially in value over a relatively short two-hour period.
I would have expected Cumberland to have intervened and contacted Mr J to check that all 
was as it should be. It didnt do this.
The second aspect which should have alerted Cumberland to these payments is where they 
were taking place. Mr Js debit card was being used in a bar and club. The merchant code 
allocated to the club would mean this information would have been known to Cumberland  
or their agent  when authorising the transactions.
I cant be sure what would have happened had Mr J been contacted and asked whether he 
intended for these payments to be made. But knowing that he was hardly compos mentis at 
the time, I think its most likely hed have just been chucked out of the club earlier as his card 
was blocked. This would have saved him considerable losses.
I think the fact that Cumberlands systems didnt flag these payments as suspicious wasnt 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances. If they had I think its feasible Mr J would have 
been able to confirm he hadnt authorised payments for those amounts. Or, in fact more 
likely, he wouldnt have responded at all to any authorisation requests resulting in cancelled 
transactions.
Putting things right
As I think Cumberland should have done more, Ive gone on to consider exactly what 
reimbursement is fair and reasonable taking all the circumstances of this case into 
consideration.
Cumberland would have needed a starting point. I think its more than likely they wouldnt 
have noticed the first transaction but may have been alerted after the second was 
authorised. I believe the third transaction should have been picked up. I say this because it 
was double the value of the first transaction and less than 20 minutes following the second. 
Any check on potential fraudulent transactions should identify transactions in certain foreign 
currencies in certain types of outlets, including bars and nightclubs.
Therefore I think its fair and reasonable that Cumberland refund the third to fifth transactions 
to Mr J. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest a year to those amounts.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Cumberland Building Society to:
Refund Mr J for the last three disputed transactions carried out on 21 February 2020 
for £1,115.58, £1,395.73 and £2,481.20 (as confirmed on Mr Js statement); and
Add 8% simple interest to the refunded amount from 21 February 2020 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman