DRN-2247757
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined his 
terminal illness claim because it was made within the last 12 months of his policy term. 
Mrs C  Mr Ms daughter - has brought the complaint on Mr Ms behalf but for ease Ill refer 
to Mr M throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr M took out a term assurance policy with Legal and General in April 2015 that was due to 
expire in April 2021. 
Mr M was sadly diagnosed with terminal cancer in August 2020 and made Legal and 
General aware of this. In light of the diagnosis it said it couldnt accept the claim as it had 
been made within 12 months of the policy expiry date. 
Mr M complained about this decision. Legal and General reviewed his complaint and sent a 
final response letter rejecting the complaint. It said the primary function of the policy was to 
provide cover in the event of death during the policy. And that the terminal illness cover is an 
additional benefit which Legal and General would treat like and other claim  in line with the 
terms and conditions  to ensure it treated all its customers fairly. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to this service. He said Legal and 
General had a moral obligation to accept the claim given the very difficult and upsetting 
circumstances. He added that Legal and General were relying on the fine print to reject the 
claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the 
decision to not accept the claim wasnt unreasonable and that the wording of the terminal 
illness benefit was clear. He added that all claims are reviewed in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy which were agreed upon when the cover was purchased. So, he 
didnt think Legal and General acted unfairly.  
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision on the matter. He said it isnt fair that the 
exclusion is being applied to his policy when Legal and General have removed it from newer 
policies. He wanted to know why he should continue to pay for the policy if terminal illness 
was no longer covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to pass on my condolences to Mr M and his family. I was very sorry to read about 
his diagnosis and I can only imagine how difficult it mustve been for Mr M and his family 
whilst coming to terms with this. 
After carefully weighing all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im not upholding 
this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mr M. I want to assure him that 
I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Legal 
and General has acted unfairly by not paying a claim under his policy. Ill explain why below.
Mr Ms policy schedule shows that his policy included terminal illness cover  the following 
terms are set out in his policy document: 
Terminal illness is defined as a definite diagnosis by your hospital consultant of an illness 
that satisfies both of the following:
 The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot be 
cured; and
 In the opinion of your hospital consultant and our Medical Officer, the illness is expected to 
lead to death within 12 months.
No terminal illness claim can be made after the death of the life assured or within the 12 
months immediately before the policy expiry date.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ms terminal diagnosis came during the 12 months before the policy 
expiry date. So, the exclusion applies. However, Mr M doesnt think the exclusion is fair, 
mainly because Legal and General hasnt included it in newer policies. 
I understand the point Mr M is making about the exclusion being unfair, especially when 
considering that its been removed from newer policies. However, I dont agree that Legal 
and General have treated him unfairly when applying this term. At the time the policy was 
taken out in 2015, these were standard clauses in polices such as this one. And its up to the 
insurer to decide the risk its willing to take when deciding the basis on which it will provide 
cover. Im satisfied it was clearly laid out that Mr M had terminal illness benefit and the terms 
in which a claim would be accepted. I also dont think the terminal illness exclusion here 
means that Mr M shouldnt have to continue to pay for the policy as the policy will continue to 
provide life cover up until April 2021. 
I believe its worth explaining that the reason why the above exclusion is placed on terminal 
illness claims is because its a benefit in which the death benefit is paid early. And life 
expectancy is generally very difficult to predict due to it being wholly dependent on the 
individual and their response to any treatment that may be available. If an insurer was to 
accept terminal illness claims within the last 12 months of the policy term, they risk paying 
claims where the death may occur after the policy has ended, which isnt the intention of the 
terminal illness benefit.
I understand why Mr M feels Legal and General should make an exception given it has now 
changed it approach to terminal illness exclusions. However, it isnt unusual for insurers to 
change the level of cover it offers across its policies over time. Some critical illness policies 
from 20 years ago will most likely cover less illnesses and some older term assurance 
policies will not pay a terminal illness claim within 18 months of the policy expiry date. So, 
I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to disregard the terms of the contract Mr M 
agreed to, especially as the cost of the policy was based upon those terms. So, Legal and 
Generals decision not to waive the exclusion is a commercial one and isnt one Id look to 
change here. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M and his family. But Im not satisfied he has 
been treated unfairly by Legal and General here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman