DRN-4322090
Complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Santander UK Plc havent reimbursed them after they fell 
victim to fraud.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties so Ill only summarise the facts 
briefly here. In January 2015, Mr and Mrs F invested £10,000 in a bond with a one-year 
term. It operated as expected  interest payments were received, and it was redeemed on 
maturity in early 2016. Persuaded that they were dealing with a legitimate company, Mr and 
Mrs F made a further investment of £25,000. Mrs F made further payments from an account 
that was in her name only, but these are being considered under separate cover.
In June 2019, they received a letter saying that insolvency proceedings had begun and that 
the company was to be liquidated. The details of that insolvency process were far from 
straightforward and involved a huge number of creditors and multiple interconnecting 
companies. Mr and Mrs F considered that the actions of the company were fraudulent. They 
notified Santander and asked that it reimburse them. Santander looked into things but 
concluded that they hadnt fallen victim to a scam. Instead, they had a private civil dispute 
with the company theyd invested with.
They referred their case to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold 
it. She said that the evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs F didnt fall victim to a scam but 
were simply unfortunate to invest in a company that failed. She added that, even if she found 
that there was evidence to show otherwise, she wasnt persuaded that Santander could be 
considered responsible for failing to stop the payment because it couldnt realistically have 
spotted any potential risks with the company they were investing in.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The staring point in law and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that Mr and 
Mrs F are liable for any payment that theyve authorised. Theres no dispute here that they 
authorised a payment of £25,000 to the company and so they are liable for it at first instance.
However, that isnt the end of the story. Santander has a range of duties and obligations that 
relate to protecting its customers from the risk of fraud. I wont set these out in full here, but 
broadly speaking it was expected to be on the lookout for account activity that was unusual 
or out of character such that it might indicate that its customer was at risk of financial harm 
due to fraud. On identifying such a transaction, Id expect it to take proportionate steps to 
protect its customer from that risk  for example, I might expect it to call the customer to 
discuss the payment before allowing it to be processed.
However, none of these obligations are engaged unless Mr and Mrs F have actually fallen 
victim to fraud. To say definitively that they were they victims of fraud, Id need (amongst 
other things) to be persuaded that the evidence shows there was an intent to defraud. I 
obviously cannot know what was in the minds of the individuals running the company they 
invested with, so I have to look at the circumstantial evidence and attempt to infer what 
those intentions likely were.
Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence for me to make such a finding here. The 
fact that the company failed doesnt necessarily imply wrongdoing on the part of its directors. 
A company can fail for a multitude of innocent reasons. There is a great deal of speculation 
about the way the company operated suggesting fraud  more than one registered company 
and several special purpose vehicles for individual property projects. However, its 
noteworthy that Mrs F (and many other investors) have been in correspondence with the 
police for over a year. While the complaint has clearly been taken seriously, it doesnt 
appear that the police are treating the conduct of the company directors as criminal.
While Im not ruling out the possibility that Mr and Mrs F are victims of fraud, Im afraid that 
wouldnt automatically mean that their complaint must be upheld. Their payment predates 
the introduction of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code  so the Code isnt applicable. However, Mr and Mrs F made a payment for £25,000. 
Even though the expectations placed on banks have evolved over time, Id still have 
expected, all else being the same, a payment of that size to prompt a bank to carry out 
additional enquiries before processing it.
Santander ought to have spoken to Mr and Mrs F before allowing the payment to go through 
and asked them some questions about the investment to satisfy itself that they werent at 
risk of financial harm. But if it had done so, I dont think there was anything about the 
arrangement that wouldve given them any reasonable grounds for concern.
All of the evidence wouldve pointed to this being a legitimate company that had been trading 
uneventfully for several years. There was no negative information online about the company 
that might have caused Santander concern. The fact that Mr and Mrs F had been investors 
in the same company before and had received returns as expected wouldve strengthened 
their conviction that there was no real risk of fraud.
Mr and Mrs F have shared information with us about ongoing legal proceedings, including 
statements given by the insolvency practitioners working on the liquidation. These seem to 
suggest that the company promised potential investors significant returns which, in reality, 
would only have been payable from funds provided by other investors.
In other words, the company may have been operating as a Ponzi scheme. It isnt surprising 
then that there wouldnt have been any reason for Santander to have suspected fraud back 
in 2016. By their very nature, Ponzi schemes dont tend to look like the scams until the point 
that they fail.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the significance of what has happened to Mr 
and Mrs F. Their losses are very significant, and they have my total sympathy for what 
theyve been through. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that Santander 
couldve protected them in this instance.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman