DRN-2613908
The complaint
Mrs A complains (on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband Mr A) that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1988 Mr and Mrs A applied to Halifax for a loan during a meeting in a Halifax branch. 
Halifax agreed to lend and also recommended that they take out PPI to protect the loan 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mrs A mainly said that she didnt realise the loan included PPI  she doesnt remember PPI 
being discussed or explained. Mrs A said she doesnt know if she and her late husband 
wouldve been interested in taking out PPI if it had been properly explained as they were 
earning good money at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr A, but as the loan was in Mr and Mrs As joint names, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances when the loan was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Its completely understandable that Mrs A told us she cant now recall all the details of this 
sale. Thats unsurprising after so long. And what she says isn't enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, 
I must make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into 
account all the information thats available, what Mrs A and Halifax have been able to tell me 
and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs A 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their loan 
without their knowledge or consent. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs A aware the PPI was optional and they chose to have it. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs A made it clear on the loan paperwork that they wanted to 
take the policy out. 
The loan agreement Mr and Mrs A signed included Yes and No PPI options. 
So although I dont know exactly what Halifax said about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs A 
wouldve seen from the way information about PPI was set out on the form that having the 
policy was a matter of choice. 
There was a No box they couldve selected if PPI wasnt something they wanted.
I think its likely that the Yes box was pre-printed with an X as Mr and Mrs A had already 
talked about this with the sales advisor and the form was prepared for Mr and Mrs A to sign 
with their selected options filled in already. 
So, looking at the paperwork from the point of sale, I think that Halifax made Mr and Mrs A 
aware that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI and it was added to their loan account 
when Mr and Mrs A chose to take it out with the loan. 
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs A to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of their situation at the time. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mrs A told us about Mr As sick pay and their 
jobs. But PPI wouldve covered the monthly loan repayments for up to 24 months if Mr A lost 
his job or hed been unable to work as a result of accident or sickness. This gave 
Mr and Mrs A better cover than if theyd just been relying on Mr As sick pay through work. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So, I think PPI couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs A in their particular situation.
The loan agreement sets out what the policy would cost them each month as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment and the total monthly payment theyd have to make. So 
I think Mr and Mrs A wouldve been aware at the time that theyd be paying for the insurance 
and how much this would cost each month  even if Mrs A has forgotten this now.
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr and Mrs A chose to take out the policy and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover and been happy to pay for it. 
Mr A wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover and the policy seems 
to have been affordable. 
Overall, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs A wouldve made a different decision about having PPI 
if better information had been provided. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs A lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A (on behalf of 
herself and the estate of Mr A) to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman