DRN-4002502
The complaint
Ms R complains about the level of service provided by West Bay Insurance Plc after she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants compensation for the lack of a 
courtesy car and her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Ms Rs car was taken for repairs following a claim made on her policy with West Bay. Ms R 
was unhappy with delays in the repairs and that she wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
She explained that this caused her difficulties as she had three children and she was 
working. And she also said this caused her significant stress and upset that affected her 
health. 
West Bay agreed there had been delays in making the repairs and that it hadnt provided a 
courtesy car. It said Ms R was entitled to a payment of up to £200 for alternative transport 
costs, on production of evidence for these. And it paid her £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. But Ms R remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought West Bay 
had already agreed that there were delays in making the repairs. He couldnt see that there 
was a limit on alternative transport in the policys terms and conditions. So he thought West 
Bay should consider Ms Rs evidence of the costs she incurred for alternative transport, but 
not her fuel or parking costs as she would have incurred these in any case. He couldnt see 
evidence that West Bays errors had had an impact on Ms Rs health. 
West Bay agreed to pay Ms R £339.60 for the taxi costs she incurred whilst she was without 
her car. But Ms R was unhappy as she thought there had been a breach of her agreement 
with West Bay that had caused her physical, mental and financial hardship. She wanted 
further compensation based on the days she was without a courtesy car and to acknowledge 
the hardship caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms R felt frustrated and stressed by this experience. West Bay said it 
had caused a delay in the claim as it took some time for it to locate a body shop to carry out 
the repairs to Ms Rs car. From what I can see, it took two weeks for the car to be collected 
after the incident was reported to West Bay. And then it took a further two weeks for the 
repairs to be made. Ms R was without a courtesy car in this time. 
Ms R said she had trouble contacting West Bay, and it agreed that its call wait times were 
long. West Bay also said it should have provided a courtesy car whilst repairs were being 
made. 
When a business makes a mistake, as West Bay accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
So Ive looked to see how West Bay has restored Ms Rs position. Ms Rs car has now been 
repaired and returned to her. 
West Bay has now agreed to reimburse Ms Rs taxi costs whilst she was without a car. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. The policy provides for a courtesy car whilst repairs are 
being carried out. But it wasnt Ms Rs fault that it took West Bay some time to locate a 
repairer and she was without transport in this time. So Im satisfied that West Bay should 
reimburse Ms Rs taxi costs. 
Ms R said she also incurred costs for fuel and parking. But I agree with the Investigator that 
she would have incurred these costs if she was in her own car. So I cant say that West Bay 
should pay for these costs. 
Ms R wanted West Bay to pay her compensation for the days she was without a courtesy 
car. And we sometimes think this would be fair and reasonable when a consumer suffered a 
loss of use. But I think West Bays payment for the taxi costs is an acceptable alternative as 
it means that Ms R is not out of pocket. 
Ms R also said shed paid for fuel when other people helped her travel. But I cant see that 
this incurred her any costs that West Bay should reimburse as Ms R would have incurred 
these costs if she had the use of her own car.  
Ms R said shed lost work because of the stress of dealing with the claim. And she said she 
had incurred costs for take away food as she was unable to cook. 
I was sorry to hear about this. Ms R has provided a doctors note saying that she was unfit to 
work following a road traffic accident. But I havent seen evidence that this was due to West 
Bays handling of her claim. 
So Im satisfied that, with its agreement to reimburse her taxi costs, West Bay has 
reasonably restored Ms Rs position. 
West Bay acknowledged that the delay in repairs and lack of a courtesy car caused Ms R 
hardship. It agreed she had trouble contacting it. And it paid her £200 compensation for this. 
Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance 
for the level of impact West Bays errors had. So I dont require it to increase this.
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to reimburse Ms R £339.60 for the taxi costs she incurred 
whilst she was without a car, as its already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require West Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman