DRN-2148598
The complaint
Miss S complains about the valuation Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as 
Hastings Direct gave for her car after it was declared a total loss.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how disappointing it must be for Miss S to have her car declared a 
total loss. And I appreciate her strength of feeling that her car has been significantly 
undervalued. But having considered what Hastings has done, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer assesses the valuation of a vehicle it isnt an exact science. Miss S 
policy says Hastings will pay the market value of the car immediately before the 
accident. In the policy terms it outlines how market value will be established and 
highlights that it will use the industry trade guides to determine this. The guides 
determine the market value by looking at many factors including actual selling prices 
of cars. 
I can see that the four trade guides placed the following valuations on Miss S car, 
£4,750, £5,160, £4,855 and £5,160. Hastings has offered Miss S £5,223, this is 
higher than the average of all four valuations. 
Ive also looked at the same trade guides and can confirm that the market value of 
£5,223 represents a fair market value, when looking across the guides, for            
Miss Scar. 
Ive seen the adverts that Miss S has provided from a car sales website. Its 
important to understand that many car dealerships will add a margin for negotiation 
when advertising cars. So, this is why trade guides can give a better indication of 
what the market value is.
I understand why Miss S feels this is unfair, but its important to note that her 
insurance policy does say it will only pay the market value, and not that it will pay the 
cost of a new car.
Hastings has used trade guides to determine the market value of the car and I can 
see that it placed a slightly higher valuation on the car than the average of the 
values. 
The payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive looked at, so I dont think its 
acted unreasonably.
Hastings did deduct the excess and Miss S outstanding direct debits from the offer of 
£5,223. This is inline with the policy terms. So, I cant say Hastings has acted 
unfairly.
I have considered that Miss S said she had car seats in the boot. Having reviewed 
the policy terms, it says:
If you have a child's car seat or booster seat fitted in your Car and you make a claim 
under sections 1 or 2 of this Policy your Insurer will pay for the cost of a replacement of a 
similar model and standard, even if there's no apparent damage, up to the value of       
300 per incident. You should provide proof of purchase.
And while there is no proof that these seats were actually fitted (as Miss S says 
these were in the boot) Hastings has said that if Miss S provides evidence of 
proof of purchase, it will consider the claim. Which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Therefore, I would encourage Miss S to contact Hastings 
regarding this matter.
So, for the reasons I have explained, I wont be asking Hastings to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman