DRN-1887116
 
The complaint
Ms W's complaint concerns a market value reduction (MVR) applied to her 'Balanced Bond' 
with Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. She's also unhappy that no terminal bonus was paid.   
What happened
Ms W took out 'Balanced Bond' with a predecessor of Phoenix Life in 1997. She invested 
just over £2,000, split approximately 60/40 between the with profits fund and a managed 
fund. 
When Ms W enquired about surrendering the bond in 2019 she was informed that no final 
bonus would be applied to the with profits element of the bond, but an MVR of around 40% 
would be applied. This reduced the value of the bond from around £4,500 to £3,500.
Ms W complained to Phoenix Life but it didn't uphold the complaint. In short, it said that its 
actuaries had confirmed that the figures were correct and that the non-payment of a terminal 
bonus and application of an MVR were in accordance with the bond's terms and conditions, 
as neither were guaranteed. It noted, however, that the with profits element had featured a 
guarantee that an annual bonus of at least 3% would be applied and confirmed that this had 
indeed been the case. In response to Ms W's concerns that a similar investment she'd held 
for the same period had achieved a far better performance, Phoenix Life said that it wasn't 
able to comment on other investments. 
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator reached the same 
conclusions as Phoenix Life. He explained the factors that might affect a business' decision 
on whether to pay a bonus and said that he was satisfied Phoenix Life had acted in 
accordance with the terms of the bond in respect of both the MVR and the terminal bonus. 
Ms W didn't accept the investigator's opinion, so the matter's been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I completely understand Ms W's concerns about the performance of the with profits element 
of her bond. However one looks at it, the return has been very low. Lower than expected 
performance has been a common feature of many with profits funds, across many financial 
businesses, over the past few years. 
But in Ms W's case the performance, or lack of, has been particularly noticeable due to the 
nature of how her bond is set up - split between the with profits investment and the managed 
fund investment - so there is a clear, straightforward comparison to be made, which highlights the lack of performance. And further to this, Ms W has another similar with profits 
investment that has produced a better return. 
But this low level of return doesn't necessarily mean that Phoenix Life has acted incorrectly 
or treated Ms W unfairly. It has explained that the decision to not pay a final bonus and the 
application of a large MVR are ultimately the consequences of the lower than anticipated 
level of investments returns since the early 2000s. This led first to a change in investment 
strategy - moving to lower risk, lower return assets - followed by the need to take action to 
address various guarantees that were given in the late 90s, when expectations of ongoing 
investment performance were still high. This involved obtaining support from shareholders, 
introducing a guarantee charge and reducing all bonuses; actions that it's explained were 
regulator-approved. 
In light of what Phoenix Life has said I've no reason to think that it's acted anything other 
than in accordance with the terms and condition of the fund. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Ms W, but I'm satisfied Phoenix Life's actions in not paying a final bonus 
and in applying an MVR are in line with the normal management of a with profits funds - the 
consequences of the 'smoothing' process designed to ensure a fair payout is made to all 
investors in the fund.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman