DRN-2768250
The complaint
Mrs F complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) should not have taken her 
funds before asking for her identity documents. She also complains about the customer 
service she received and delays to receiving a refund.
What happened
On 29 January 2020 Mrs F applied to buy Premiums Bonds totalling £17,000 from NSI. 
Following the purchase and despite already being a customer, Mrs F was asked for 
Evidence of Identity (EOI)  specifically, she was asked for documents to show proof of 
identity and address. Mrs F called NSI on 31 January to say she wasnt going to provide this 
information as she lived abroad and it wasnt convenient for her to do so. She was told by 
the NSI agent, shed receive a refund within seven days. After chasing the matter, Mrs F was 
refunded on 12 February, twelve days after the call with the NSI agent. 
Mrs F complained to NSI. She said that the conflicting information caused her distress and 
inconvenience and she wanted to be compensated for this.
NSI said although Mrs F was an existing NSI customer, itd not verified her EOI in line with 
current regulatory requirements. It added that as Mrs F was living abroad, it could only 
accept documentary EOI. NSI accepted that there was a delay in refunding Mrs F. It said its 
normal process is that if EOI isnt supplied then a refund is processed after 21 days, which is 
a deadline set to protect the integrity of the Premium Bond draw. But NSI noted that if a 
customer contacts before this deadline, it can arrange a refund earlier. It paid Mrs F £30 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, whilst she recognised NSI could have 
progressed Mrs Fs refund quicker, she couldnt see this error had led to any financial loss. 
She considered the compensation already paid to Mrs F of £30, was fair.
Mrs F disagreed. She considered that NSI should change its process so that money isnt 
taken before EOI is requested. Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs F, but I wont be addressing every 
single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of her complaint. 
When NSI asked for Mrs Fs identity documents, this was in line with its terms and conditions 
where it says:
were required by law to check your identity and address. We may check your identity and 
address again at any time.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs F was an existing customer, I think these terms make it reasonably 
clear that her identity could be checked at any point. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for NSI to do so in this case, as it needed this information to comply with its 
current regulatory obligations, which have changed since Mrs F first became its customer.
Mrs F says NSI should change its processes so that customers like her dont pay over their 
money before understanding the EOI requirement. NSI makes a commercial decision about 
the terms it offers the Premium Bonds, including how best to meet its regulatory 
requirements. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that NSI should change its terms or 
processes when these have been designed to meet with its regulatory and business 
requirements. In any event, the terms and conditions do make it clear that NSI may check a 
customers identity and address again at any time, so I think this was something drawn to 
Mrs Fs attention before her purchase. 
When Mrs F called on 31 January she was told it would take seven days for a refund but she 
was refunded twelve days later, so five days later than expected. Mrs F feels the 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused, should be substantially 
increased. But based on everything Ive considered, Im satisfied £30 is a fair amount. Its 
clear NSI caused Mrs F some inconvenience. However, this was limited to two further calls 
and Mrs F received the refund within a few days of the timescales shed originally been 
given. She also didnt suffer any financial loss. So, on balance, I dont think theres sufficient 
grounds for the compensation to be increased.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs F will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint in that I think the compensation already paid to Mrs F by 
National Savings and Investments, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman