DRN-3879951
The complaint
Mrs C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (hereafter BUPA) provided her with 
misleading information when she called to have treatment authorised on her private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C called BUPA in September 2022 seeking cover for a nerve conduction study. BUPA 
authorised the procedure, but when it paid its contribution towards it Mrs C complained. 
Mrs C said BUPA had only paid £7 towards the nerve conduction study, but when shed 
called it said it would pay £167. She said it hadnt set out the detail of the £160 excess it 
would go on to deduct and had misled her. 
BUPA didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It said it explained that £167 was eligible for cover 
during the call and had asked her to look at her membership certificate for details of any 
excess that may apply. It said the membership certificate explained there was a policy 
excess of £250. And as it had already applied £90 of that excess towards a previous claim 
£160 of it was left, which when applied to the £167 gave the final contribution of £7. 
Mrs C disagreed and brought her complaint to this service. She said shed been in the car 
when shed called BUPA so didnt have her policy documentation to hand and BUPA had 
abdicated its duty to provide her with clear information at the time.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint either. Having listened to the September 
2022 phone call they said the advisor had given Mrs C clear, non-misleading information. 
They said Mrs Cs policy documentation had clearly explained the details of the excess 
payable. They also said Mrs C had been a member with BUPA since 2008, so it was 
reasonable to think shed be familiar with her policy excess. And thy said BUPA had written 
to her only a month prior, with information about her policy excess too following a separate 
claim.
Mrs C disagreed with that opinion and set out her position again at length. In summary she 
said she was blatantly mis-advised, BUPA had made an offer to pay during the call which 
shed accepted, and itd been vague and mis-leading too. 
So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will not be upholding it mainly for the same reasons already explained by 
the investigator before me. Let me explain why:
BUPA has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject 
them unreasonably. Mrs C was always going to be liable for paying the first £250 
towards any eligible treatment and her policy documents are clear on this. The 
membership certificate shows that she has a £250 excess. And the membership 
guide which contains the policys full terms and conditions explains that having an 
excess means Mrs C has to pay part of any eligible treatment costs that would 
otherwise be paid by us up to the amount of your excess.. 
Prior to Mrs Cs claim for the nerve conduction study BUPA had already applied £90 
of that £250 excess towards a separate claim. So £160 was left, and I dont think it 
was unreasonable of BUPA to apply that to the claim for the nerve conduction study 
given the above policy terms.
Mrs C says BUPA made her an offer on the call to pay £167 which she accepted. As 
has rightly been explained BUPAs role is not to make offers. The basis of any claim 
Mrs C chooses to make on her policy will always be subject to the relevant terms and 
conditions, and here those explained that shed need to pay the first £250 excess 
towards any eligible treatment. 
Ive listed to the call Mrs C had with BUPA as well and I dont think she was provided 
with misleading or unclear information. BUPA explained the consultant she wanted to 
see wasnt fee assured (meaning he could charge more than BUPAs agree fee), and 
that whilst it would cover £167 Mrs C would be liable to pay the rest and should 
check her membership certificate for details of any excess or policy limits. 
Mrs C may not have had her policy documents to hand given she was in a car when 
she called, but I cant fairly hold BUPA liable for that. During the call BUPA reminded 
Mrs C to check her membership certificate for details of any excess or policy limit, 
and Mrs C replied ok, thats fine. She did not indicate in any way that she did not 
understand how her excess worked, nor that she would have like more information 
about it at the time of the call. Rather, she indicted that she was fine to check her 
membership certificate for such detail. Had Mrs C asked for or indicated that she 
would have liked information about her policy excess on the call I would have 
expected the call hander to go on and provide that of course. But as both parties are 
aware, that did not happen here.   
Mrs C clearly feels very strongly about her position and I am sorry to disappoint, but I 
will not be interfering with BUPAs position as a result of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against BUPA insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman