DRN-3807805
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money took too 
long to change its account resulting in additional charges and costs.
What happened
O had an existing fee-paying account with Clydesdale. It wanted to change this to a fee free 
account. O explains in its complaint form that it started the process in December 2021. And 
there were delays and issues with completing forms. When the account was opened in 
February 2022 there were errors with the address. O complained and it didnt receive a final 
response for a number of months.
Clydesdale accepted that its service had been poor, and this shouldnt have taken so long. It 
also accepted that there had been a delay before the complaint was addressed. So, it 
refunded charges O could have avoided of £100.60 and paid it £75 in compensation.
Our investigator recommended that Clydesdale pay O a further £100 and it agreed to do so. 
He said that this was an internal switch, and this took an unreasonably long period. But he 
didnt agree with O that further charges should be refunded. The account had been open, 
and O could have mitigated its loss and didnt need to wait for the outcome of this complaint.
O didnt agree, and a director says she was in two minds as to whether to proceed with the 
new account given the problems and the time taken and as Clydesdale had closed the 
complaint. O said that the change had been due to take place on 18 November 2022 and it 
wanted the charges and interest refunded to that date. O considered that these would 
otherwise offset about half of the settlement. It also said that little value had been put on the 
time and stress involved here although it wasnt challenging the further £100 of 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there were service issues and delays for O. The issue is now about 
compensation for that and for the ongoing charges.
Clydesdale says it had refunded charges and interest to the point when O could have made 
the switch to the new account having reviewed the complaint. I appreciate O wants further 
charges refunded after that. But I dont think thats reasonable. O had the opportunity to 
mitigate those charges while still pursuing the complaint. And I dont think Clydesdale can be 
fairly responsible for refunding these.
This service publishes guidance about compensation. And I take into account here that the 
complainant is O, a separate legal entity, and a company cant suffer distress. Ive 
considered everything O has said about the time its directors spent on this. And having done 
so I find that the resolution now proposed by our investigator is reasonable. I can appreciate 
that the directors of O will still be disappointed.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay O a further £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman