DRN-2971974
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter irresponsibly granted 
her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs C acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter. Mrs C had to make 48 
monthly repayments of £258.86, with a final optional payment of 1p if she wanted to own the 
car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £12,425.29 
towards which Mrs C paid a £100 deposit. 
Mrs C says that RateSetter didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. RateSetter didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check, verification of Mrs Cs 
income and a review of her excellent payment performance in a previous hire purchase 
arrangement with them. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint was upheld. He thought RateSetter ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mrs C.
RateSetter didnt agree and said the adjudicators calculations suggested Mrs C would have 
enough disposable income to afford repayments. They also disagreed with the adjudicators 
calculation of what fair use should be, but they did offer to write off any outstanding balance 
on the agreement which had now been voluntarily terminated by Mrs C.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RateSetter will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check RateSetter completed showed that Mrs C had defaulted on a credit 
agreement and had a County Court Judgement against her in the last 12 months. It also 
showed historic defaults with balances that hadnt been paid. I think this ought to have 
indicated that Mrs C was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for RateSetter to have dug deeper and got a more thorough understanding of 
Mrs Cs financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for RateSetter to have found out more about Mrs Cs 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what RateSetter 
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Cs bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mrs C was paying a total of £1,681 towards her committed living expenditure such 
as rent, insurance and bills. Her income was about £2,032 and whilst RateSetter are right to 
say that leaves a disposable income £351 from which to pay the £258 per month agreement, 
I dont think there could fairly be enough left to suggest these payments could be sustainably 
met, when considering other expenditure such as car maintenance or emergencies. I think 
this demonstrates that Mrs C didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. RateSetter therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think RateSetter ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mrs C has made, including any deposit. However, Mrs C did have use of the 
car for around 36 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of over £258 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. 
This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,  
Mrs Cs likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, Im not persuaded that Mrs Cs usage of the car 
has been excessive as RateSetter have suggested; there was after all, no mileage limitation 
on the agreement. I think a fair amount Mrs C should pay is £126 for each month she had 
use of the car. This means RateSetter can only ask her to repay a total of £4,536. Anything 
Mrs C has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an overpayment. 
To settle Mrs Cs complaint Retail Money Market Ltd should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mrs C has made, less £4,536 for fair usage. 
oIf Mrs C has paid more than the fair usage figure, they should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mrs C has paid less than the fair usage figure, they should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Retail Money Market Ltd has received the fair usage amount, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The 
business must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs C asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Money Market Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman