DRN-4344917
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt do enough to protect her when she was 
the victim of a crypto investment scam. 
Mrs W is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mrs W 
throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
Around August 2021 Mrs W was introduced to an investment opportunity by a friend who 
had unknowingly been investing in a crypto scam since March 2021. 
Mrs W contacted the scammer via WhatsApp. He said he worked for an investment 
company (which Ill refer to as C) and was very prominent on social media. He suggested 
to Mrs W that she invest in crypto and said he would help her  which included the setting 
up of an account with a well-known legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform (which Ill 
refer to as B). Payments were then sent onto a trading platform (which Ill refer to as M). 
Mrs W has told us that she initially started making payments towards the investment from 
a current account with another bank (Bank A). These payments totalled over £100,000 and 
were made to individuals as part of Bs peer to peer lender process.  Bank A didnt 
intervene in any of these transactions. 
Mrs W said she got a return on the investment of around £3,700  which was credited into 
her account with Bank A. 
Mrs W opened a new account with HSBC in September 2021. On 29 November 2021 she 
deposited £150,000 into the account from a savings account she held with Bank A. The 
funds formed part of an inheritance from her late husbands estate and included funds from 
the sale of her property. 
On 6 December 2021 Mrs W referred a friend to B and got a £11.88 referral fee, which 
she paid into her HSBC account.
Between 14 December 2021 and 27 February 2022 Mrs W made 23 payments from her 
HSBC account to B (and to Bs payment processing company  which Ill refer to as S) 
ranging from £3,000 to £10,000 totalling £131,000. She got two further returns on her 
investment. One on 10 February 2022 for £1,448.37 and one on 14 February 2022 for 
£1,476.00.
Mrs W put the reason for the payments as buying goods and services. The transactions 
were as follows:
Date amount method payee
14/12/21 £5,000 Visa debit card B
14/12/21 £5,000 Visa debit card B
16/12/21 £10,000 Visa debit card B
21/12/21 £10,000 Visa debit card B
31/12/21 £3,000 Visa debit card B
4/1/22 £10,000 Visa debit card B
7/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
7/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
8/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
8/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
10/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
10/2/22 £5,000 Visa debit card B
10/2/22 £8,000 Visa debit card B
18/2/22 £200 Online transfer S
21/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
21/2/22 £9,800 Visa debit card B
22/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
24/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
24/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
26/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
26/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
27/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
27/2/22 £5,000 Online transfer S
Total £131,000
HSBC didnt intervene in any of the transactions. But it did issue a standard warning to 
Mrs W before she made the first online payment to S about scams relating to the 
purchasing of goods and services.  
Mrs W says she realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was unbale to 
withdraw a large sum of money but was told she had to pay a fee of 20%. Her account with 
M was then frozen. 
Mrs W contacted HSBC about the scam on 25 May 2022 and it initiated recovery of the 
funds paid to S on 26 May 2022, but no funds remained. HSBC said in respect to the 
payments made to B, the Visa Chargeback rules didnt apply. 
HSBC didnt consider it was responsible for Mrs Ws loss. It said she had transferred the 
funds to a legitimate crypto exchange account in her name and in her control. 
HSBC said had Mrs W used the correct payment reason (making an investment)  she 
would have been provided with a more tailored warning. But it thought any intervention 
was unlikely to have made a difference given Mrs W was transferring funds to a legitimate 
company and had done no precautionary checks before making the investment.  
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. She thought HSBC shouldve intervened at the point she made the first 
payment given its size and because a payment into her account of £150,000 had been 
made shortly before. Mrs W thought this, combined with the fact the payment was to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, shouldve been of concern to HSBC. And if HSBC had 
intervened and asked appropriate probing questions, Mrs W said the scam wouldve been 
uncovered and her loss prevented. Mrs W said she had caried out due diligence before deciding to invest with C- not just 
relying on her friends recommendation. But the sophisticated nature of the scam and 
social media presence of the scammer, combined with her vulnerability at just having lost 
her husband and lack of investment experience, gave her no cause for concern. Mrs W 
also found Ms trading platform to be professional and of a high quality. 
Mrs W couldnt recall why shed used the wrong payment reference  but believed HSBC 
shouldve still been alerted to the payments given their size and destination. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part. She said HSBC 
shouldve intervened from the £10,000 payment made on 16 December 2021. And if it 
had intervened, our Investigator thought the scam wouldve been uncovered and the loss 
prevented from that point. She obtained information from Bank A  who confirmed no 
interaction had taken place with Mrs W about the investment being a scam  and so she 
didnt believe this impacted any interactions HSBC wouldve had at the point of the 16 
December 2021 payment. 
She did however believe Mrs W should be responsible for 30% of the loss  believing she 
shouldve done more to check the legitimacy of the investment  particularly given the 
funds came from an inheritance and house sale. And because Mrs W hadnt disclosed the 
correct payment reason  impacting HSBCs ability to provide a more tailored written 
warning. 
Our Investigator agreed the Visa Chargeback rules dont apply in respect of the payments 
to B and was satisfied HSBC had done all it was required to do to try and recover the 
payments made to S from the beneficiary bank.
Mrs W accepted our Investigators findings. HSBC didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsman to issue a final decision. 
HSBC believed it needed more information from Mrs W about how the investment had 
come about the actions she took. In particular, it wanted to know:
What a credit into Mrs Ws HSBC account from her account with B for £11.88 
related to.
When her account with B was set up and information on the transaction history 
which predated the disputed transactions.
Did Mrs W pay or receive any funds into her account with B from elsewhere.
Why Mrs W used the wrong reference for the payments.
HSBC also made the point that Mrs Ws current account had only recently been opened 
before the £150,000 credit was paid into it on 29 November 2021. With the main actively 
thereafter being the payments to B and S. HSBC wanted to know where the £150,000 
had been transferred from and if it was from an account in her name  why Mrs W hadnt 
used that account to make the payments to B and S. 
HSBC also suggested that as Mrs W had initiated the investment scam some months 
before through Bank A, she was likely heavily under the spell of the scammer by the time 
she started making payments from her HSBC account. And she continued to do so, 
despite, it suspected, being provided with warnings from Bank A. HSBC also thought it 
likely that Mrs W wouldve gone back to making payments from Bank A if it had refused to 
release them. 
This, coupled with the fact Mrs W had been dishonest about the reason for the payments by 
using the wrong payment reference, led HSBC to conclude that any intervention it mightve made was unlikely to have made a difference. 
On 22 August 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to consider relevant regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment
Services Regulations. These regulations explain that a payment can only be authorised if
the payer has consented to it. This is important because, generally speaking, account
holders will be liable for payments theyve authorised, and banks will be liable for
unauthorised payments. Ive taken this into account when considering whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so
considering the rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are
generally, more familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in
its dealings with Mrs W when she made the payments, specifically whether it shouldve
done more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, would that have
made a difference. I also need to decide if HSBC ought to have done more than it has
already done to recover the funds after Mrs W reported the scam.
Should HSBC have intervened in the payments?
HSBC hasnt disagreed with our Investigators view that the £10,000 payment made on 
16 December 2021 shouldve flagged as suspicious and triggered an intervention. And I also
agree with the Investigator on this point. A payment of £150,000 had recently been paid
into the account, and the £10,000 payment was the third payment to be made to B in just
two days. I think this shouldve been a concern to HSBC.
Would intervention have made a difference?
The issue in contention here is whether any intervention by HSBC wouldve made a
difference and prevented Mrs Ws loss. Ive thought very carefully about this point, and fully
considered all the information provided by both parties. Ive also taken account of the wider
surrounding circumstances to help me decide how likely it was, on balance, any
intervention by HSBC wouldve prevented Mrs Ws loss.
HSBC are the experts here  and shouldve known the common hallmarks of a crypto
investment scam. Regardless of the reason Mrs W gave for the transactions (which
arguably wasnt incorrect given she was buying goods (crypto)), HSBC could see she was
buying crypto, albeit through a legitimate crypto exchange. It shouldve known this is often
part of the scam process to make it look more convincing and harder to detect, and harder
to recover lost funds. It could also see that Mrs W had made several large payments in
close succession. Against this backdrop, I think any interaction between HSBC and Mrs W
shouldve been tailored to the possible risks involved of investing in crypto.Its not for us to dictate what questions a bank should ask, but I think it wouldve been
reasonable here for HSBC to have asked Mrs W whether there was a third party involved,
how she found out about the investment, what she understood about how the investment
worked and whether shed had any returns on the investment. Id also have expected
HSBC to ask Mrs W about the source of the £150,000.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs W wouldve said in response. Of course, I cant
know for sure, so Ive thought about what I think is more likely than not to have happened,
considering the particular circumstances of this case.
Mrs Ws representatives have mentioned her limited spoken English, but it hasnt been
suggested this wouldve been an issue if she had been contacted by HSBC about the
payments and asked probing questions. And so, I dont see this as a significant point here.
I cant see that Mrs W was given a cover story by the scammer and hadnt invested in
crypto before. So, with that in mind, if HSBC had asked Mrs W if anyone was helping her, I
think the presence of her friend who introduced her to the investment and C would more
than likely have come to light. Mrs W is also likely to have divulged that she had been
investing since August 2021  via her account with Bank A  and had received returns on
her investment. I think she also would likely have told HSBC about the source of the
£150,000.
This information ought to have been of some concern to HSBC, and even if the interaction
with Mrs W alone wasnt enough to break the spell and uncover the scam, Id have
expected HSBC to strongly suggest to Mrs W the need to check the investment was
legitimate.
But I must now think about whether this wouldve made a difference and prevented 
Mrs Ws loss.
Firstly, whilst Mrs W was contacted by C, this was after shed spoken about investing in
crypto with her friend  and so she wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into
investing  it had been her choice. And by her own admission, Cs online presence and the
sophisticated nature of the scam  gave Mrs W no reason to doubt the legitimacy of the
investment.
Secondly, there were no regulatory or other credible warnings at that time to have alerted
Mrs W to this being a scam. So, if she had carried out checks, she isnt likely to have
seen anything of concern. Also, Mrs W wasnt at the start of her relationship with the
scammer at the point when HSBC shouldve intervened. Shed already invested over
£100,000 via Bank A and had received returns on the investment, further reinforcing that
the investment was genuine despite any warnings HSBC mightve given.
Thirdly, it appears that Mrs W specifically opened the account with HSBC to facilitate the
investment  presumably because she was no longer able to make payments from Bank
A given restrictions it put in place from June 2021 about making payments direct to B.
She also introduced a friend to B for which she received a referral fee. This all
demonstrates how committed Mrs W was in the investment  and suggests its likely she
wouldve found another way to make the payment if HSBC had refused to process it.
Of even more significance here is the influence Mrs W had, and continues to have, from
the friend who introduced her to the investment. And whilst I appreciate Mrs W has told
us she didnt rely solely on the advice of her friend when deciding to invest, I think it is
more likely than not that she wouldve sought reassurance from her friend if HSBC had
advised her to check the legitimacy of the investment.As I understand it, Mrs Ws friend (and her husband) had been investing a significant
amount of money from both single and joint accounts as part of the same scam since
March 2021- six months prior to Mrs W first getting involved. Her friend had investment
experience (an investor visa and an investment portfolio)  and had also been able to
make several returns on her investment. And so, I have no reason to doubt that Mrs W
wouldnt have had complete trust in her friend.
This suggests to me that any concerns Mrs W mightve had about the investment
wouldve been alleviated by reassurances given by her friend. And so, I think its more
likely than not Mrs W wouldve proceeded with the transactions here  even if HSBC had
done more to alert her that the investment had all the hallmarks of a scam. I think it
wouldve taken something more credible, like regulator warnings about C, to have made
Mrs W pause and think more about her decision to invest. And in the absence of such
warnings, I dont think any warning from HSBC wouldve made Mrs W do anything
differently.
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mrs W has been the victim of a
sophisticated crypto investment scam. And I think HSBC shouldve done more to try and
protect her. But I think this is unlikely to have made a difference. Mrs W was
unfortunately, completely caught up in the scam, as was her friend whod been advising
her, and had no reason to question it at that time. So, overall, for the reasons Ive
explained, Im not persuaded intervention from HSBC wouldve made a difference and
prevented Mrs Ws loss in the particular circumstances of this case.
Given Ive found that its more likely than not intervention from HSBC wouldnt have
made a difference and exposed the scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider
whether Mrs W should share any responsibility for the loss she incurred by way of
contributory negligence.
Did HSBC do enough to try and recover the lost funds?
Id expect HSBC to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds.
In relation to the payments to S, HSBC sought to recover the funds immediately after it
was told about the scam in May 2022, but unfortunately no funds remained. There was
nothing more HSBC couldve done here. Furthermore, Mrs W received crypto in
exchange for the payments to S and subsequently sent it on to M. Im satisfied there
would have been no funds to recover as Mrs Ws payments to S were legitimate.
I also dont think HSBC had the option to recover the card payments by way of a Visa
Chargeback. B was a legitimate company and so the service Mrs W was paying for 
purchasing the crypto  was provided. Mrs Ws dispute was with M, not B, and as B
provided the service she paid it for, its unlikely a Visa Chargeback claim wouldve been 
successful. And so, I cant say HSBC couldve done anything more here 
I invited Mrs W and HSBC to provide me with any additional evidence or information 
they wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mrs W didnt 
accept it and provided more information to support her complaint. 
Mrs W explained that the friend who introduced her to the investment was a friend of a 
friend who she met on a coach trip, and she didnt know her before the investment 
opportunity was discussed during that trip. She said whilst this friend has been supporting her in trying to get her money back, they were not close friends at the time of 
the investment, and there was no communication between them until the scam came to 
light. 
Mrs W also said that the friend only had limited investment experience in stocks and 
shares, and so was not an experienced investor. And she only had an investment visa 
due to her high wealth  and this wasnt in place at the time of the scam. 
Mrs W explained that she hadnt referred another friend to the scam  rather theyd 
found out about the investment at the same time as she did (during the coach trip), and 
shed only referred the friend for an account with B. And so, Mrs W said this shouldnt 
be used to support the point that she was under the spell of the scam. 
Mrs W thought it unlikely any answers she gave to HSBCs probing questions wouldve 
satisfied it that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. She said she was in a vulnerable 
state at the time  having just lost her husband  and was investing a considerable 
amount of money from an inheritance into a high-risk crypto investment that followed a 
familiar scam pattern. Mrs W said she wasnt an experienced investor and didnt 
understand cryptocurrencies. 
Mrs W said HSBC shouldve applied the banking protocol due to the specifics of this 
case. She said the account with HSBC had been newly opened, whilst she was in a 
vulnerable state, and it exhibited highly concerning behaviour.  Mrs W reiterated that 
shed have been unable to provide answers to HSBCs questions to satisfy it that the 
investment was genuine. 
Had the banking protocol been invoked, Mrs W believed the scam wouldve been 
uncovered. She said its likely shed have been advised to test the investment by trying 
to withdraw all her profits  which she said we know from what happened in this case, 
wouldve resulted in the scam being uncovered. 
In conclusion, Mrs W said there were huge failings here by HSBC and its unfair that it 
should share no responsibility for her loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs W has rightly pointed out, the key point here is whether the tailored intervention - 
which all parties agree is the action HSBC shouldve reasonably taken - wouldve uncovered 
the scam and prevented her loss. Ive thought very carefully about that, including the points 
Mrs W has made in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I still think this 
case shouldnt be upheld. 
I would firstly add that weve tried to engage directly with Mrs W to obtain her first-hand 
testimony about, amongst other things; the circumstances surrounding the scam; what her 
expectations of the investment were (was this a long-term investment for example); and 
what led to the HSBC account being opened. Unfortunately, this engagement hasnt been 
forthcoming. So, Ive had to base my findings on the balance of probabilities, based on the 
information thats been made available by all involved parties. And to help me do that, Ive 
also looked at the wider circumstances surrounding this case. 
Mrs W has spoken about her vulnerability at the time of the payments from her HSBC 
account, and I dont doubt how difficult things were for her having recently lost her husband. But I would counter that with the fact Mrs W was able to make important financial decisions 
about her money and actively engage in the investment from August 2021, four months 
before HSBC became involved. She was also able to open the HSBC account specifically, it 
seems, to facilitate the payments towards the investment. And so, I dont think the evidence 
suggests Mrs Ws vulnerabilities made her unable to make decisions about the management 
of her finances. 
Its been helpful Mrs W has provided some clarity about the relationship with the friend who 
introduced her to the investment. And how the referral fee came about. But aside from that, I 
still believe Mrs W was so invested in the scam at the point HSBC shouldve reasonably 
intervened, that it is unlikely, on balance, to have uncovered the scam and prevented her 
loss. 
Neither Mrs W, nor her friend, had any concerns about the scam until they tried to make 
large withdrawals. Ive noted Mrs Ws comments that she didnt have any communication 
with her friend until after the scam was uncovered  but I still maintain that any concerns 
raised by HSBC wouldve likely prompted Mrs W to contact the friend for reassurance. And 
despite not having as much investment experience as first thought  the fact the friend had 
been investing since March 2021 (along with her husband), had some investment 
experience in stocks and shares, and had no cause for concern - wouldve likely helped to 
satisfy any concerns Mrs W mightve had. 
But aside from any reassurances Mrs W may or may not have got from her friend, or anyone 
else she knew to be involved in the investment, I cant ignore the fact she wasnt at the start 
of her relationship with the scammer at the point HSBC shouldve intervened. Because of 
that, I maintain it wouldve taken something more credible, such as a regulatory warning, to 
have caused Mrs W to stop and think seriously as to whether the investment was in fact 
genuine. 
Mrs W has said HSBC shouldve invoked the banking protocol, and that this wouldve 
resulted in the scam being uncovered. Whilst I accept its likely Mrs Ws responses to 
questions HSBC asked of her wouldve resulted in it suggesting that she carry out further 
checks  I dont think that intervention alone, at that time, wouldve resulted in the banking 
protocol being invoked. 
Whilst Mrs Ws situation had some hallmarks of a scam  there were no regulatory warnings 
against C, and she hadnt seen any negative reviews that concerned her. And other people 
she knew had been investing (at their choice) for a while and had received returns on their 
investments. So, I dont agree with Mrs W that HSBC wouldve had enough of a concern to 
have invoked the banking protocol had it intervened in the payments. 
Taking all this into account, whilst I accept HSBC shouldve done more, Im not persuaded 
that, given the specific cicusmances of this case, that intervention wouldve prevented 
Mrs Ws loss. And so, I wont be asking HSBC to take any action. 
Neither party made any comments on my provisional finding in respect to whether HSBC did 
enough to try and recover the lost funds. So, I see no reason to depart from what I said. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman