DRN-3506093
The complaint
Mr I has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1 Loans) did not conduct an 
adequate affordability assessment before granting him a loan which he says was 
unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr I is represented by a Claims Management Company but for clarity Ill refer to Mr I in 
relation to both their representations and his own.
On 9 April 2019 Mr I took out a loan with 1Plus1 Loans for £3,750.00. The monthly 
repayment was £142.97 over 60 months and the total repayable was £8,578.20.
Mr I has said that if affordability had been reviewed effectively, 1Plus1 loans would not have 
provided the loan. He said that 1Plus1 Loans also failed to advise him of alternative means 
of dealing with his circumstances, including free debt management advice. Mr I is now in 
financial difficulty including being behind on this his rent and council tax bills.
1Plus1 Loans didnt uphold Mr Is complaint  it said it provided Mr I with an Adequate 
explanations document with his loan documents which signposts free sources of debt help 
and advice. It also said it carries out appropriate checks including two detailed conversations 
with Mr I.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said the information 
1Plus1 Loans gathered showed Mr Is finances were not stable and that he was unlikely to 
be able to make his repayments sustainably. Our investigator shared a copy of Mr Is full 
credit file to 1Plus1 Loans.
1Plus1 Loans disagreed and said as a sub-prime lender, Mr Is poor credit history was 
factored into its risk assessment. The defaults on Mr Is credit file were from 2015 and it 
thought Mr I had provided an acceptable explanation for the issues with his utility bills. It 
emphasised that it was entitled to rely on the information Mr I provided to it at the time of 
application. 1Plus1 Loans also said Mr I had declined to reassess his finances with it and 
continued to make repayments.
As 1Plus1 Loans did not agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. Upon review of the complaint, I requested a copy of Mr Is bank statements for the 
three months leading up to the lending decision. I issues my provisional decision on 
25 April 2022 explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. 1Plus1 Loans was provided 
with a copy of the bank statements I was relying on at the same time.
Mr I accepted my provisional decision but 1Plus1 Loans didnt respond by the deadline 
provided. So Ive re-reviewed everything for my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided since my provisional decision, I am still upholding 
this complaint for the same reasons. Ill set these out below.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 1Plus1 Loans was entering a regulated credit 
agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable assessment of Mr Is creditworthiness before 
it entered the agreement. The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 1Plus1 Loans 
needed to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or 
adverse consequences for Mr I.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. For 
example, their financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and 
cost of credit they have applied for would also be considered.
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did what it needed to       
before agreeing to lend to Mr I, and have considered the following questions:
Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Is loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and did 1Plus1 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
1Plus1 Loans has told us that before it approved the loan, it confirmed that this loan would 
be used to consolidate other debt and for home improvements. It checked Mr Is credit file, 
and electronically verified his income and bank account. It asked for details of Mr Is income 
and expenditure and its agents questioned Mr I on the information he provided. Based on 
these checks, 1Plus1 Loans offered a lower loan amount than Mr I had originally applied for 
and concluded at this amount, that Mr I would have sufficient disposable income for the loan 
to be affordable.
Mr Is credit report at the time showed he had defaulted on three accounts in 2015, but I 
agree his more recent credit history is most relevant. There were the following indications 
that his financial position was not stable at the time and he was having problems managing 
his money:
Mr I had taken out three loans within the previous six months, before approaching 
1Plus1 Loans for further lending.
On two active credit cards, Mr Is borrowing was consistently hitting the upper credit 
limit in the months preceding this loan being taken.
Mr I had sustained arrears on his gas/electricity and water bills in the six months 
before the loan was taken.Mr I took out a short-term loan in January 2019 and immediately went into arrears. 
This activity is indicative of someone struggling financially and is inconsistent with the 
disposable income of over £1,300 per month that formed part of 1Plus1 Loans assessment. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable to conclude Mr I could sustainably repay the lending that 
was granted at this point.
Under this loan Mr I would need to make repayments for five years which is a significant 
commitment. I can see that 1Plus1 Loans asked Mr I questions before agreeing the lending, 
but in the circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable to accept his limited explanations. 
I agree customers have a responsibility to provide accurate information, but I dont think its 
reasonable for 1 Plus 1 Loans to have taken this at face value when it has contradicting 
information bearing in mind its obligations to lend responsibly. For example:
 When asked about going into arrears on the January 2019 loan, Mr I didnt provide 
an explanation aside from to say he had made a payment  1 Plus 1 Loans would 
need to have understood why he went into arrears in the first place to assess this 
properly.
 Similarly, when asked about the arrears on his utilities (which are essential 
household bills) Mr I said he had problems with the direct debit and had arranged a 
repayment plan. No evidence was provided from his bank to support this, and it is 
unlikely Mr I would need a repayment plan if this was the case and he had the 
disposable income declared here. 
In addition, it is unclear why Mr I would need to take a loan to consolidate his debts if 
he had this level of surplus income.
1Plus1 Loans provided the loan based on a 5.11% payment to income ratio and an 
unsecured debt to income of 55.68%. However, the figures used didnt factor in all debt in 
Mr Is name and on occasion, halved the debt that was solely in Mr Is name based on Mr I 
saying he splits it with his wife. Based on the information available, I dont think 1Plus1 
Loans did enough to verify what Mr Is real income and expenditure was.
For these reasons I dont agree that the checks conducted were reasonable and 
proportionate based on the information available to 1Plus1 Loans at the time. I would expect 
them to have sought to further understand Mr Is financial situation before agreeing to lend. 
Having established that 1Plus1 Loans failed to conduct reasonable and proportionate 
checks, I need to look at what proportionate checks would likely have shown 1Plus1 Loans 
and consider whether this would have affected its decision to lend to Mr I. We cant now 
know exactly what these checks would have been, so Ive reviewed Mr Is bank statements 
for the three months preceding the loan as one way of getting a fuller understanding of Mr Is 
financial position at the time of lending.
1Plus1 Loans have provided information which indicates Mr I declared his monthly income to 
be £3,200.00. 1Plus1 Loans used CATO (Current Account Turn Over) to determine Mr Is 
income after tax was £2,800.00 per month and confirmed Mr I had been receiving this 
amount for the last 6 months. Having reviewed Mr Is statements, I can see that he received 
an average monthly income of £1,904.54 from his employer. Any additional funds received 
into his account were via bank transfer from third parties or from short term lending which 
Mr I was using regularly. He appears to have been in a cycle of debt with short term lenders 
which was not included in his expenditure or on the matter of which existing debt could or 
should be consolidated.Mr Is statements also show he was paying back the loans and some bills in full from his 
account. I havent seen anything to support that his wife was supplementing half of the 
expenditure.
This means that both Mr Is income was lower than declared and his expenditure was higher 
than declared. He was spending more than he had coming in each month and couldnt have 
reasonably afforded to pay another loan. Even if it was for consolidation of some existing 
debt, his overall indebtedness was still increased.
It follows that if 1Plus1 Loans had completed proportionate checks, it would have likely 
realised that the loan repayments would not be sustainable for Mr I and he was therefore 
unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering other adverse financial 
consequences. So as a responsible lender, it would have decided not to approve his 
application.
1Plus1 Loans has said it did signpost Mr I to free debt advice, so he would have known 
about this option. But this doesnt change that the lending was not affordable for Mr I. Whilst 
he may have continued to meet his repayments, this appears to have been at the expense of 
not paying for essential expenditure such as his rent and council tax.
Putting things right
When considering how best to put matters right, I think its reasonable for Mr I to repay the 
capital amount that he borrowed as he had the benefit of that money. But I dont think he 
should need to pay interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided. I also 
think 1Plus1 Loans should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that 1Plus1 Loans Limited should do the following to put things right:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr I has 
made as payments towards the capital. 
oIf this results in Mr I having effectively made payments above the original 
capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these overpayments and 
pay 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 
oIf, however reworking Mr Is loan account results in there being an 
outstanding capital balance 1Plus1 Loans should work to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr I.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman