DRN-4342408
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint concerns fees and performance guarantees for investments managed by 
Henry Spain Investment Services Limited and, further, its decision to stop providing him with 
its services and close his account. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr B was initially advised to invest by a different business. Changes in the Financial 
Conduct Authority authorisation of that business led to management of Mr Bs investments 
moving to Henry Spain in mid-2019. (A complaint has also been made about the business 
that provided the original advice, which has been dealt with under a separate reference.)
Henry Spain continued to manage Mr B investments  a general investment account, an 
ISA, and a SIPP, from mid-2019 to March 2022, at which point it terminated its agreement 
with him.
Mr B complained to Henry Spain about several issues, broadly as set out above, and it 
issued a final response in April 2022. It first confirmed that it was only responsible for 
matters following the mid-2019 change then went on to explain its reasons for not upholding 
Mr Bs complaint. 
It said, in brief, that it was satisfied appropriate information regarding its fees had been 
provided to Mr B, noting that they had remained the same as theyd been with the previous 
business. And it said no guarantees had been provided to Mr B in respect of the ongoing 
performance of the investments. It concluded by saying that in accordance with its terms of 
business it retained the right to terminate the agreement with Mr B and close his account. 
And in doing so it had provided the required thirty days written notice. 
The complaint was then referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should 
be upheld, for broadly the same reasons as those given by Henry Spain.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about the matter, I too have 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why, focussing my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive failed 
to consider it. Rather, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on it in reaching 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im conscious Mr Bs concerns focus very much on the advice he was given originally in 
2017. It was at that point of sale that the primary causes of his dissatisfaction  the 
assessment of his attitude to risk, the explanation of fees and the comments about 
performance  arose. And those issues have been considered in respect of his other 
complaint. 
That said, for completeness, I dont think theres anything to suggest that Mr B was 
misinformed about the fees that applied to his investments, nor the potential returns, during 
the period from mid-2019 when his investments were managed by Henry Spain. The 
documentation shows that his circumstances and attitude to risk were reconsidered following 
the move to Henry Spain and his portfolio continued to be managed on broadly the same 
basis as it had been prior to the move. I note Mr B comments regarding conflicts of interest, 
but Ive not seen anything that persuades me that Henry Spain acted improperly in respect 
of the management of his investments, which were significantly diversified across many 
different asset types.  
I think its fair to say that Mr Bs primary issue in respect of Henry Spain is the decision to 
terminate the agreement with him and close his account in 2022. This followed a period 
during which Mr B was raising concerns about the performance of his investments, 
particularly in light of what he saw as the pledges hed been given at the outset (by the 
other business) that he would receive a return of somewhere between 6% and 10% per 
year.  
Henry Spain has said that when it became clear that Mr B was expecting results  effectively 
guaranteed returns  that it wasnt able to give, it made the decision to stop providing him 
with a service. It notified him in writing on 17 February 2022, in accordance with its terms of 
business, and gave him the requisite 30 days notice that it would stop managing the 
investments and close the account.
I think the motivation behind this decision probably extended beyond simply not being able 
to provide Mr B with a service  and guarantees  that would meet his requirements. It looks 
very much like the nature of communications between the parties had by this point resulted 
in a complete breakdown in the relationship. But in any event, Im satisfied Henry Spain was 
entitled to terminate the agreement under the terms of business that applied at the time. 
While this would of course have led to some inconvenience for Mr B, I dont think Henry 
Spain treated him unfairly. 
One further issue with the closing of the account thats of particular concern to Mr B is that 
he was not warned that when Henry Spains management of the investments ceased, the 
portfolio would remain subject to market volatility. So, he was under the impression that its 
value  at that point around £320,000  was crystalised and would be the amount available 
to transfer to the management of another business as and when he arranged to do so.
Henry Spains terms of business address this point, saying that during the notice period its 
management service will cease, and the account will remain static. And further, the asset 
allocation of any funds at the time of cancellation will remain static. But there is nothing to 
suggest that the value of the portfolio will remain static.  And the letters sent by Henry Spain 
to Mr B concerning the account closure gave no indication that the portfolio would no longer 
be subject to the market volatility it had been subject to for the previous five years.    
I understand that Mr B may have misunderstood the position and have genuinely been of the 
view that the value had been crystalised. Hes provided evidence, for instance in the form of 
diary entries, that supports that this was his understanding at the time. But I dont think 
Henry Spain did anything to create that understanding.
Following the issuing of the notice letter on 17 February 2022 there were further requests for 
valuations from Mr B and responses from Henry Spain that reiterated that the value of 
investments could go up and down. While I accept that this wasnt an explicit statement that the portfolio value remained subject to change with market movements, I think it 
demonstrates how there was nothing in what Henry Spain was telling Mr B that indicated 
that the portfolio wasnt still subject to changes in value.   
I understand why Mr B will have been very disappointed that by the time he came to transfer 
his portfolio, some months after Henry Spain had closed the account and stopped managing 
the investments, its value had fallen significantly. But I dont think that Henry Spain can be 
held accountable for that. 
The portfolio could have been transferred sooner, and as an in specie transfer  where 
nothing was sold and individual holdings simply moved to a new business as they were  the 
portfolio wouldve remained subject to the same market-related price movements  down, or 
up - wherever it was held. When transferring there was no requirement that assets be sold 
and losses at that point crystalised. 
While, as noted, I recognise this matter will have created some inconvenience for Mr B Im 
satisfied that once he was made aware of the need to transfer the investments it became his 
responsibility as to how this was done. While the eventual transfers may not have completed 
until many months later, there was nothing preventing Mr B from seeking advice and acting 
sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman