DRN-4300502
The complaint
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wouldnt refund money she 
lost in a scam.
What happened
What Ms F says:
Ms F had a current account with NatWest. In 2016, she (with her partner) were introduced to 
an investment scheme by someone they knew, who was said to have been an investor for 
four years and had made good returns. Ms F and her partner did some due diligence and 
found nothing untoward about the scheme - for example, there wasnt anything on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register. The owner of the business and his son were ex-
policemen. So, Ms F went ahead and invested £10,000 in April 2017  paid from her account 
with NatWest.
Ms F also invested a further £45,000 from her joint account with NatWest  this is subject to 
a related complaint.
The investment scheme proved to be a Ponzi type fraud which came to light in 2019. It was 
reported that 5,000 people had lost £70 million. The company was wound up by order of the 
court, and a liquidator was appointed in 2019.
Ms F and her partner lost all their savings. They contacted NatWest in July 2022. 
Ms F said that NatWest shouldve done more to protect her and asked why she was making 
a large payment. If the bank had questioned her, she said they would likely have been 
alerted to the fraudulent scheme and not made the payment. She also said NatWest didnt 
properly investigate what had happened and were slow to deal with the complaint.
What NatWest said:
Ms F complained to NatWest in July 2022. NatWest said the payments were made before 
the introduction of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), and therefore 
couldnt be considered within that guidance. They looked at the claim on a best endeavours 
basis and contacted the receiving bank, but no funds remained to be paid back.
NatWest said they did stop certain customer transactions but couldnt say what the formula 
was that identifies such a payment - as this was confidential.
NatWest apologised for not dealing with the complaint as quickly as they should have and 
for that, paid compensation of £200 to the joint account.
Our investigation so far:
Ms F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said NatWest 
shouldve stopped the payment and questioned Ms F about it. But even if they had, he was 
persuaded that she wouldve gone ahead anyway  as Ms F and her partner been 
introduced to the scheme by a colleague who had already made money and had been 
investing for some time. Theyd had also found nothing negative about the scheme when 
they did their research. And because the owners of the scheme were ex  policemen, that 
would also have also given them some comfort.
NatWest had tried to get the money back, but no funds remained with the receiving bank. 
Ms F didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint  and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms F has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payment in this case. So although Ms F didnt intend for the 
money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. In April 2017 (when Ms F made the payment) there 
were some circumstances where a bank should have taken additional steps before 
processing a payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. For 
example, there were some guidelines which should have been followed when older or 
vulnerable customers asked to make unusually large cash withdrawals or where someone 
appeared to be telling them what to do.
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to 
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a 
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes 
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify 
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
It was later  that the expectations of banks were increased: with the Banking Protocol in 
2018; and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook S 
5.1.10A (R) (since 13 January 2018) & 5.1.10B (G) (since 19 December 2018).
And the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was 
set up to provide protection for customers who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams, and also to reduce the occurrence of APP fraud.
In other words  the obligations of banks to protect customers from fraud when the payment 
was made (in April 2017) were far less than later.
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Ms F when she requested the payment - based on the expectations of 
banks in 2017. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded NatWest should refund Ms F the amount she lost. 
I looked at how Ms Fs account operated. I can see there were some previous large 
payments leading up to the scam. For example:- December 2016 - £19,500: payment
- February 2017 - £1,218: payment
- March 2017 - £2,000: payment
Bearing in mind the guidance under which NatWest were operating to at the time  I dont 
think its reasonable that the payment relating to the scam were flagged as needing more 
examination by NatWest. 
And also - theres a balance to be struck: NatWest had obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, 
I think NatWest acted reasonably in processing the payment.
Our investigator said that even if NatWest had flagged the payment and questioned Ms F 
about it, she wouldve gone ahead anyway. I accept that she disputes that, and I make no 
comment about whether they would have gone ahead or not  as my decision is based on 
the fact that I dont think its reasonable to expect NatWest to have questioned the payment 
in any case, for the reasons Ive described.
Recovery:
We expect firms to attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether NatWest took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. NatWest have said they contacted 
the recipient bank and no funds remained to be paid back  and given the passage of time, 
and the fact that a liquidator was appointed in 2019, Im not surprised at that.
Im sorry Ms F has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept theyve  been the 
victim of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold NatWest responsible for her loss here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman