DRN-3919898
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as L complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) treated them unfairly by not defending a chargeback claim against them. 
The complaint is brought on its behalf by its directors, Mrs E and Mr L. 
What happened
L told us:   
In April/May 2022, they accepted fourteen payments from a customer over the 
phone. After obtaining authorisation codes from Barclaycard, the goods were sent to 
the customers address and proof of delivery was recorded.  
In June 2022, Barclaycard debited their business account for £10,550 without 
authorisation from them taking them into their overdraft. They had no warning that 
Barclaycard were doing this because of a chargeback, and initially had no idea why 
the money had been taken - which had caused inconvenience to the company and 
distress to the directors.
It was unfair for Barclaycard to take money from them as they had received 
authorisation that the payments were fine and released the goods on this basis. If 
they hadnt received this authorisation, they wouldnt have released the goods.
They shouldnt be held responsible because Barclaycards security checking process 
wasnt fit for purpose. They didnt know what else they could do to protect the 
company as they were already taking all the protective measures Barclaycard had 
suggested.
Barclaycard told us:
   
The authorisation L received was to say that there were available funds for the 
transactions and at that time, the card hadnt been reported as stolen.
It had debited Ls account because of the chargebacks for 12 payments which had 
been received because of Card-not-present (CNP) fraud. This was in line with the 
scheme rules and terms and conditions. 
The signature obtained upon delivery didnt prove that the actual cardholder had 
given authority for the payments. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that CNP transactions 
were at higher risk of chargeback even if authorisation had been obtained, and it would be 
for L as the merchant to pay the disputed amount if the card issuer raised that chargeback. 
She thought that Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong as it had acted in line with the 
scheme terms and conditions and didnt believe L had been misled by the term authorised 
or that Barclaycard had insufficient security.
L didnt agree. They said Barclaycard hadnt acted in accordance with various sections of the 
FCA Handbook and that they had been misled when signing up with the business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
Firstly, I need to make it clear that I can only consider Ls dispute with Barclaycard, not Ls 
customer and what actions should be taken in regard to them. I can only look at whether 
Barclaycard has treated L fairly and reasonably in line with the Scheme rules. 
A chargeback is the process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants under the relevant card Scheme rules (in this case, Mastercard). Barclays dont 
operate the Scheme or decide if a chargeback is successful  it can only decide whether or 
not to defend it. If the merchant bank chooses to defend against the chargeback, the case 
will go to arbitration before the card scheme  who will consider all the evidence. The costs 
of arbitration can be significant to the losing party in the dispute. In this case, Barclaycard 
said that it couldnt defend L against chargeback claims of this nature i.e. fraudulent 
transactions and therefore returned the funds to the cardholders bank. I understand this is 
frustrating for L, but chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme rules not the merits 
of any dispute between the cardholder (and whether or not they were the ones who received 
the goods) and the merchant.
I recognise that L says Barclaycards fraud team should have made them aware there was 
an issue, but it would only have been notified of this when the cardholders bank raised the 
chargeback. L also says that Barclaycards terms are unclear and misleading, and that they 
shouldnt be liable for the chargeback as Barclaycard authorised the payments, but I dont 
agree. Barclaycard has said its CNP authorisation to a merchant is to confirm that funds are 
available to make the payment and that the card hasnt been reported as stolen at that point. 
I acknowledge that L isnt happy with this and believes its a lack of security and protection 
for them as merchants, but there are limitations to the checks that Barclaycard could 
undertake, and this is in line with other merchant services providers. I also think L ought 
reasonably to have been aware that there will be a higher level of risk where a customer isnt 
physically present. And I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for the action of the 
person(s) who committed the fraud. 
Under the agreement terms there are clear sections specifically relating to Authorisation and 
Chargebacks and Ive seen that terms say that Authorisation of a card payment is not a 
guarantee of payment and it does not prevent us from recovering a chargeback or other 
amount in relation to the card payment they also say that in some circumstances the card 
issuer or account provider will have the right to request reimbursement of a payment and 
the circumstances included if the cardholder or account holder denies authorising a CNP 
transaction. So based on what Ive seen I dont think the terms were unclear or misleading 
and I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to claim the money back from L. 
L also says its unfair that Barclaycard debited their account and that they didnt have any 
warning this was happening  but I dont agree. Ive seen a copy of Ls Barclaycard 
statement from 31 May 2022 which shows that £10,555 of chargebacks had been raised 
against the company and says that this will be collected on or after 10 June 2022. 
Furthermore the terms of Ls agreement with Barclaycard say If you have to pay us back for 
a chargeback, the amount will be a debit from you to us which you will owe immediately and 
you agree that we have the right to deduct the relevant amount from your bank account if 
you hold that account with us. So I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong here. I recognise that this has been a difficult time for L and that theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. However, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to 
refund the chargeback. L has told us that they are in financial difficulty as a result of this, so 
they should contact Barclaycard directly to see if it can provide any assistance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman