DRN-2297792
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr L took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through an online price comparison site. 
When he had an accident, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Watford declined his claim, cancelled his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr L complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about how his 
car would be used incorrectly. And that it considered this entitled it to cancel his policy and 
refuse his claim. Mr L was then pursued by the other drivers insurer for its costs and a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) was awarded against him. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. She 
thought there had been a misrepresentation under the relevant legislation. But she didnt 
think this was a qualifying misrepresentation as Watford would have still provided cover on 
the same terms if Mr L had answered the question correctly. 
She said Watford should consider Mr Ls claim, refund the premiums paid pro-rata and 
remove cancellation fees. She thought Watford should remove any records of the 
cancellation and assist Mr L in limiting the impact of the CCJ and update credit reference 
agencies. She also thought it should pay Mr L £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Watford doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said Mr L hadnt complied with the policy terms. It said that it had adopted an Article 75 
Insurer status and it didnt have to meet the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford thought that The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) didnt apply in this case. But I disagree, I think the relevant law in this case is 
CIDRA. This is because Mr L was asked a question about how he planned to use the car. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Our investigator thought Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application via a comparison site that he used his car for social only 
purposes. And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application 
and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because he was asked how he would use the car. And he was given three options, 
social only, social and commuting, and social, commuting and business. A drop-down menu 
offered further information about what the options covered. Driving to a place of study was 
excluded under social use. And so I think this was a clear question asked by Watford 
through the comparison site Mr L used.
Mr L chose Social only and hes explained that this was because he wasnt working and 
didnt consider occasional travel to college to be commuting. But I think the drop-down menu 
was explicit and the policy documents also excluded travel to a place of work or study. And I 
think this means Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he said he would use the car for social purposes only. 
Watford has provided evidence which shows that if Mr L had not made this 
misrepresentation and chosen Social and commuting it would have still provided cover on 
the same terms and price. This means Im satisfied Mr Ls misrepresentation was not a 
qualifying one under CIDRA.
Therefore, Im not satisfied Watford was entitled to cancel Mr Ls policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And I think it should deal with his claim. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Watford to rely on it to 
cancel Mr Ls policy doesnt produce the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Mr L has told us that a CCJ has been awarded against him following action by the other 
insurer. This has been settled in full by his father to mitigate further harm. But as I think 
Watford should have dealt with the claim, I think it should reasonably refund this amount and 
limit any further impact of any CCJ against Mr L. 
I can see that having his policy cancelled, his claim declined and the CCJ awarded against 
him has caused Mr L considerable stress and upset. The investigator recommended that 
Watford should pay Mr L £300 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar situations. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr L, I think Watford should do the following:1. Reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
2. Refund the premiums paid on a pro-rata basis, removing any cancellation fees.
3. Remove any records of the cancellation of the policy from any internal or external 
databases where its been recorded.
4. Refund Mr Ls father the cost of the CCJ settlement (subject to reasonable evidence that 
its been paid). Limit the impact of the CCJ and ensure all credit reference agencies are 
properly updated.
5. Pay Mr L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman