DRN-2734924
The complaint
Mr B and Mr D complain that Union Reisevericherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 9 February 2019, Mr B and Mr D booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel on 13 
February 2019. However, on 12 February 2019, Mr D suffered seizures and had to be 
admitted to hospital. So Mr B and Mr D cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
URV turned down the claim. Initially, as Mr B and Mr D hadnt provided it with a copy of a 
medical certificate from Mr Ds GP, it said it couldnt progress the claim. Ultimately though, it 
noted that Mr B and Mr D had taken out the policy on 13 February 2019  the day they were 
due to travel and after Mr D had been hospitalised. So it said if itd been aware of this, it 
would never have offered them cover and it has offered them a refund.
Mr B and Mr D were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said it was standard 
practice for insurers to request medical information when they assess claims. She explained 
that the policy stated it was designed to cover unforeseen events and that cancellation cover 
only began once the premium had been paid. So she felt it was fair for URV to rely on the 
information Mr B and Mr D had given it to conclude that theyd already been aware of the 
need to make a cancellation claim when they bought the policy. 
Mr B and Mr D disagreed. They said the policy was bought before the event thatd led to the 
cancellation. They told us the policy had been taken out in good faith. They felt that to 
suggest theyd taken out the policy to recoup money from the insurer was defamatory. They 
queried what theyd have to gain by booking a trip so late on, which they would cancel at a 
loss if they claimed through the insurance. And they told us that they hadnt claimed the 
premium refund.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mr D, I think it was fair for URV to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt 
turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr B 
and Mr Ds policy with URV and the available evidence to decide if URV treated them fairly.
First, I agree with the investigator that its standard claims handling procedure for an insurer 
to require a medical certificate to be completed by the GP or treating medical practitioner of 
the person whose condition led to the cancellation claim. Thats so that the insurer can 
assess whether the condition was sudden or whether it already existed and when a 
policyholder ought reasonably to have known their holiday would need to be cancelled. And 
in this case, URV has also set out in its policy terms that a medical certificate completed by a 
GP will need to be provided if a cancellation claim for illness or injury is made. So Im 
satisfied it was fair for URV to decide that it couldnt progress the claim until it received this 
medical evidence.
Ive next considered the terms of Mr B and Mr Ds policy as these form the basis of their 
contract with URV. Below, Ive set out what I consider to be the key terms:
The Health/Medical Conditions section states: Your policy may be cancelled or treated as if 
it never existed and or your claims may be rejected or not fully paid if a claim is made 
relating to a medical condition, illness or injury of the Insured Person(s), or any person who 
your travel depends on, which you or they knew about before you bought this insurance, or 
which develops before your outward journey where we have not been notified.
Next, the Period of Insurance information says: The period of insurance under the 
cancellation section for Single Trip insurance commences when the premium has been 
paid.
And the Conditions and exclusions section includes the following term: You are not 
covered for: any claim arising directly or indirectly from you failing to provide full and 
accurate information including full details of medical conditions or changes to your health or 
anyones health on which the trip depends, known by you at the time of buying this 
policyunless it has been disclosed to us and we have agreed in writing.
Mr B and Mr D say that the policy was already in force before the cancellation of the trip and 
so they think that URVs bound to settle their claim. But URV says that the event that led to 
the cancellation of the trip  Mr Ds illness  had already happened before Mr B and Mr D 
bought the policy. So Ive looked closely at the available evidence to decide whether it was 
fair for URV to reach this conclusion.
In the absence of a medical certificate, URV had to base its claims decision on the 
information Mr B and Mr D provided. The policy certificate shows that Mr B and Mr D took 
out the policy on 13 February 2019, the day they were due to depart on their trip. I can see 
that they each declared a medical condition, although theres no evidence to link Mr Ds 
medical condition to the cause of the claim. Ive then considered the claim form Mr B and Mr 
D completed. Although this says they were advised to cancel the trip on 14 February 2019, 
the day after their planned departure, Mr B has also written:
Mr D suffered fits and became unconscious on the night before travel. An ambulance was 
called and he was taken tohospital. I believe the diagnosis to be myotachycardia.
The day before Mr B and Mr Ds planned date of travel was 12 February 2019  which was 
before they took out the policy. Mr Ds also told us that he is now sure it was the actual day 
before (they) were due to go that he was admitted to hospital. Again, this would suggest Mr 
D was taken to hospital before Mr B and Mr D took out the policy. Theres nothing to indicate 
Mr B told URV about Mr Ds symptoms or admission when he took out the insurance or that 
it agreed to cover it.
Insurance is designed to protect policyholders against unforeseen events. It isnt intended to 
cover events a policyholder knows will happen or considers reasonably likely to happen. In this case, the evidence that Mr B and Mr D have given both URV and us suggests that Mr D 
had already been admitted to hospital when the policy was taken out. So I think it was 
reasonable for URV to conclude that cancellation of the trip wouldve been reasonably 
foreseeable and that they were aware of a reason they might need to make a claim at the 
point they took out the policy.  
On this basis, I dont think URV has acted unfairly by turning down Mr B and Mr Ds claim. 
And I also dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that the event that led to the 
cancellation of the trip happened before the policy was in force. Its told us it wouldnt have 
offered Mr B and Mr D an insurance policy if itd known about Mr Ds illness and its offered 
to refund the premium they paid. I think this is a fair response and its open to Mr B and Mr D 
to take URV up on its offer. 
I do sympathise with their position, because Im aware that Mr Bs now told us that hes in 
significant financial hardship and Im aware that Mr Ds recently been unwell. If Mr B and Mr 
D are able to provide any evidence (such as phone bills) or medical evidence, which shows 
that they took out the insurance before Mr D became unwell, its open to them to send it to 
URV to consider. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think URVs done anything 
wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman