DRN-4052985
The complaint
Mrs M complained that her claim for storm damage and accidental damage were unfairly 
declined by Covea Insurance plc (Covea).
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to Covea when heavy rainfall penetrated her conservatory roof and 
damaged her laminate flooring in the room below. When Mrs M reported the incident she 
informed Covea that she was already in the process of arranging a replacement roof 
following the advice of a roofer.
Based on the information Mrs M provided, Covea decided to decline the claim for the roof as 
it said the policy didnt cover damage caused by gradually operating causes including 
deterioration and wear and tear. However, Mrs M was led to believe her claim for damage to 
the laminate flooring would be covered, until Covea retracted the offer when Mrs M came to 
providing it with her bank details.
Covea acknowledged some failings  it said it shouldve been more proactive during the 
claim and discussed the possibility of appointing a surveyor sooner. So, it awarded £100 
compensation and decided to cover 50% of the laminate flooring (£381) less the excess, 
meaning Mrs M wouldve received £181.
Mrs M is unhappy as she said her roof was in good working order and she was only 
changing her roof for the changing climatic conditions to ensure it suited her needs in the 
future.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He agreed with Coveas decision to 
decline the claim for the roof, as there was no evidence of storm or flood conditions so 
thought Covea was reasonable in deciding it wasnt covered by the policy. However, he 
thought the damage to the flooring should be covered under the accidental cover of the 
policy as he thought it occurred through a one-off event. Covea disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms claim for the roof was made after heavy rainfall. For the claim to be valid, it would 
need to be made under one of the perils listed in her policy. So, heavy rainfall would 
normally be considered under the storm peril. So, Ive first considered this.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
I have checked the weather conditions at the time of the claim. There was persistent rainfall 
recorded but it wasnt close to been heavy and persistent enough to be considered as storm 
conditions. I also checked there werent any significant gusts at the time that could be 
classed as storm conditions.
Therefore, as the weather wasnt consistent with a storm, Mrs M wouldnt have a valid claim 
under the storm peril.
Ive also checked the claim to see if any evidence of flood conditions has been presented. 
As there havent been, I dont think Mrs M could reasonably claim under the flood peril.
Covea rejected the claim as it said Mrs M had informed it that she was in the process of 
getting her Perspex roof changed. I appreciate Mrs M said her roof was in good working 
order. However, I dont think its likely someone would go to the expense of paying for a new 
roof if they thought it was in good working order. I would imagine this would only happen if 
someone was generally upgrading or changing the look of their home and there isnt 
evidence this was the case.
Ive also noted that Mrs Ms roofer wrote that the weight of the water had caused the sheets 
of the roof to separate from the wall side. I wouldnt expect this to happen to a roof that was 
in good order. So, in summary, I think Covea has been fair in declining this part of the claim 
for gradual operating causes (deterioration and wear and tear to the roof). I this this is most 
likely the main cause of the rain penetrating the roof.
Ive then considered whether Covea were fair to retreat on its position to cover the damage 
to the laminate flooring. Covea has said this damage was caused because of the defective 
roof, so should also be excluded due to the gradual operating cause. However, I dont think 
this is a fair stance in the circumstances of this claim. Ill explain why.
Mrs M had accidental cover on her policy, so she would be covered for one-off unforeseen 
events. Mrs M had identified her roof needed replacement and she pro-actively arranged for 
it to be replaced. Unfortunately, the time between having the quote and been able to have 
the work carried out was around two months. Mrs M had paid the deposit and clearly 
intended to have this work completed. I dont think she can be held accountable for the 
timescales as it wasnt within her control. I appreciate she couldve got a temporary cover to 
her conservatory  but given she was in the summer months I dont think she wouldve 
reasonably expected to have such heavy rainfall. I think Mrs M has taken a reasonable 
action to mitigate the loss. 
A temporary solution wouldve cost a significant amount proportionately to mitigate a risk for 
a relatively short period, when the risk of heavy rainfall was low. So, I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect her to do this. Ive also considered, Mrs Ms vulnerable circumstances 
at this time  so I think she has acted reasonably given these. I think the claim should be 
accepted under the accidental peril as I think the loss was unforeseen and one-off in nature. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint. I require Covea to settle the claim for the laminate flooring 
in full, less the policy excess (based on valid receipts / quotes). I think the added delay with getting her claim settled fairly in her vulnerable circumstances wouldve been stressful, so I 
require Covea to pay an additional £150 compensation to reflect this (so £250 in total).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Settle the claim in full for the laminate flooring (less the excess)  if Covea have 
already paid Mrs M for part of this, then they should only pay the additional amount
Pay £150* additional compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the 
original £100* offer if it hasnt yet been paid).
* Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman