DRN-2624345
The complaint
Mr N complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) unfairly 
declined a claim he made under his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N took out a pet insurance policy in December 2018. The policy renewed again in 
December 2019. In September 2020 Mr N says his dog had an accident that required dental 
treatment.
The treatment cost totalled around £400. Mr N later tried to make a claim on his policy. Red 
Sands declined the claim as they said the policy excluded dental and gum treatment. 
Mr N complained to Red Sands as he felt that the policy wasnt clear in excluding dental 
work required as a result of an accident. Red Sands didnt uphold his complaint and Mr N 
referred the complaint to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence but didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. He found that Red Sands had fairly considered the claim. Mr N didnt agree, so the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr N that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
When coming to my decision, the key findings I need to make are:
Has Red Sands fairly considered this claim  inline with the policy terms? And;
Has Red Sands treated Mr N fairly and reasonably throughout?
This particular policy - as is common with many pet insurance policies, excluded claims 
relating to specific treatments or illnesses. Insurers can choose what risks they wish to 
cover. The relevant terms here that Red Sands relied on to decline the claim are:
Exclusions
The following are excluded from cover:.
Any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment, and any investigation costs 
leading up to a dental diagnosis. 
Im satisfied that Red Sands can fairly rely on the exclusion to decline the claim Mr N made  
as the policy didnt provide cover for dental treatment.
Mr N feels that as his dog was involved in an accident that lead to the dental treatment, the 
policy should cover the claim. But I dont agree. The policy summary does say, under what is 
covered; .costs for treatment of your pet by a very due to accident. That applies here. 
But, in the very next column over (what is not covered) elaborates: Any dental or gum 
treatment including root canal treatment. Ive also noted that as well has having some 
damaged teeth removed, Mr Ns dog also had further scaling and polishing work done as 
part of the treatment. 
Im satisfied that this policy doesnt provide cover for the type of treatment Mr Ns dog 
required in this case and that Red Sands made this sufficiently clear in their terms. Although 
Mr N has said Red Sands should update their policy document to prevent this situation 
happening for other customers, its not within my remit to direct any business to change their 
policy terms or the risks they decide to cover. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Red Sands have fairly considered and declined this claim and also 
treated Mr N fairly and reasonably throughout.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Red Sands  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman