DRN-2832041
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight) provided advice to 
transfer her pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), in order for her fund value to 
be invested in an overseas property development. Mrs B believes this was unsuitable and 
has prevented her from being able to take pension benefits from her SIPP. 
What happened
Mrs B held a SIPP with a transfer value of approximately £132,000. She has started the 
SIPP following advice from Insight in 2011. The funds in her SIPP were held in two capital 
protected structured investment products. One had a five year term to end date and was 
designed to return the capital at the end with investment returns. The other was an income 
deposit plan, which was set up with a six year term. It was designed to return the deposit at 
the end of the term and to pay out interest as income at set periods over the term of the 
investment.
Insight conducted a fact-find with Mrs B in February 2012. And a further one in October 2012 
that was less detailed. Insight established that Mrs B:
was 60 years old;
was no longer working;
owned her own property worth £175,000;
had no financial dependants;
held around £48,000 in stocks and shares ISAs;
held around £74,000 in investment bonds;
had around £9,200 in cash ISAs and £5,000 in a current account;
received an income from an enhanced annuity around £24,000 a year.
In November 2012 Insight advised Mrs B to transfer from her existing SIPP to another one 
that would enable her to invest in an overseas hotel property development. An investment of 
this nature was an unregulated collective investment scheme, and for the purposes of this 
decision Ill refer to it as the UCIS.
Mrs B took a tax free lump sum of £33,000 from her original SIPP in July 2012. And the 
remainder was transferred to the new SIPP in January 2013. The funds in her SIPP were 
then wholly invested in the property purchase. The property build was completed in 
December 2015.
Mrs B complained via a claims management company in March 2019. For ease of reading in 
this decision though Ill simply refer to Mrs B. The complaint was that the advice to invest in 
the unregulated overseas investment wasnt suitable for Mrs B. 
Insight gave Mrs B a final response to her complaint in which it explained that it thought 
Mrs Bs complaint had been made too late for us to consider. I looked at the circumstances 
and issued a decision that Mrs Bs complaint was something we could consider. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mrs Bs complaint. Insight didnt agree with 
this view and explained their arguments. Our investigator remained of the same opinion. In 
the end, she thought the complaint should be upheld for the following reasons:
Insight failed to explain to Mrs B why the SIPP and investments that theyd advised 
her on in 2011 were no longer suitable;
Insights assessment of Mrs Bs attitude to risk was likely to be too high. Mrs Bs 
circumstances made a medium attitude to risk more likely;
Insights recommendation failed to address when or how Mrs B would be able to 
access her pension funds which is a crucial part of retirement planning;
The UCIS represented too high a risk for Mrs Bs pension fund;
It wasnt in Mrs Bs interests to transfer to a SIPP with higher annual charges.
The arguments raised by Insight in relation to the view were that Mrs B:
had a long term interest in using this pension fund to purchase an overseas property 
investment;
had enough capital to purchase the property for future income and potential capital 
appreciation;
was aware that a penalty would be incurred by transferring from the funds that she 
was previously invested in;
was informed about the ongoing SIPP charges;
understood the high degree of risk the UCIS represented but was prepared to accept 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For similar reasons to those explained by the investigator Im upholding this complaint. In 
explaining my reasons Ill be expanding on some of the things the investigator said made 
Insights recommendation unsuitable. But Im essentially making the same points.
Ill start by considering the position that Mrs B was in when the recommendation for this 
pension switch came about. Mrs B was already retired at 60 and in receipt of an annuity 
which Insight had advised her on. So she had some financial security and the funds in her 
SIPP werent her only pension provision.
The funds in Mrs Bs SIPP were invested into two investment products that had fixed terms. 
Mrs B wasnt even two years into those investment terms when this advice was given. The 
way that things stood at that stage, Mrs B seemed happy with an investment that tied up her 
pension fund for a further three to four years. I would have expected that when Insight 
advised Mrs B about the protected structured investment products that her SIPP held, that it 
considered them to be suitable for her needs. And I dont think that they were likely to have 
been considered suitable for someone who intended to terminate the investments before 
they reached their full term. They were also likely to be suitable for someone who valued the 
guarantee that their capital investment was protected. 
This complaint isnt about the suitability of those investments. But Ive looked at them 
because they are indicative of the type of investment that Insight considered to be suitable 
for Mrs B a relatively short time before its advice that is the subject of this complaint. And I 
also think its relevant to Insights assertion that Mrs B had a long term interest in the UCIS in 
this case. The evidence however suggests that it wasnt Mrs Bs objective to invest in the UCIS just two years earlier, when she was advised to invest into the protected structured 
investments designed to lock in her capital for five and six years. 
There is some disagreement in this case about the extent to which Mrs B came to Insight 
with the idea of this UCIS. Ive seen no specific evidence in this case of an introducer 
referring Mrs B to Insight. Mrs B was an existing client of Insight in fact and it provided her 
with advice on a number of matters. Mrs B has told us that she was introduced to the idea of 
this UCIS by her adviser. For the purposes of deciding on the outcome of this complaint, I 
dont think it matters how Mrs B came to be introduced to the idea of the UCIS. I say this 
because this case hinges on the suitability of the personal recommendation that Insight 
provided Mrs B.
Before I go on to explain my thoughts on Insights recommendation to Mrs B, I will explain 
Insights regulatory responsibilities. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) publish high level 
principles for the conduct of regulated businesses. These are explained in the FCA 
handbook under section PRIN 2.1. Of relevance in this case are:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 9  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice 
and discretionary decision for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its 
judgement.
I will be considering Insights actions against these high level principles.
Our investigator referred to an alert issued by the FCAs predecessor (the Financial Services 
Authority) in January 2013. I wont repeat it in full here but will highlight the following 
statement because it clarifies the position regarding the advice Insight were providing:
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas 
property investment must form part of the advice about whether the customer should 
transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
customer, the original pension product, including its underlying holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable. This is because if you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated 
elements
And as our investigator pointed out, this alert didnt make any changes to the regulations that 
existed when Insight made their recommendation to Mrs B. It wasnt new regulation that 
didnt already apply. It re-stated the principles that already existed.
In this case it meant that any advice that Insight gave Mrs B had to consider the suitability of 
the investment that the funds would end up in. Insight said in its recommendation, I did not 
give advice on the underlying investment to be purchased within the new SIPPand there 
may be risks associated with this which you should have considered carefully before 
investing. But this wasnt a reasonable warning for Insight to give. Insight werent simply 
providing advice on whether the SIPP they recommended was a suitable wrapper for the 
UCIS. To recommend the pension switch it also needed to consider whether the UCIS was 
more suitable for Mrs B than the investments in her existing SIPP.
The suitability report referred to the fact that switching would create penalties, that were 
largely due to the time bound structured products that she was invested in. However Insight addressed this by telling Mrs B that these costs would be reimbursed by the UCIS. And it 
seems that Insight had been in contact with the scheme to arrange this. The suitability report 
provided no comparison of the fees Mrs B currently paid on her SIPP with the fees on the 
recommended SIPP. On listing disadvantages though the report did highlight that the new 
SIPP would, overall, be more expensive. This appears to have been dealt with in a fairly 
brief way. The existing annual fees were around £350. And the annual charges of the new 
SIPP were around £790 (£495 annual maintenance charge and £295 property holding fee). 
These fees would have had a negative impact on the cash in Mrs Bs SIPP and meant that 
higher rental returns would have been needed to make sure that they could be paid without 
Mrs B having to make further contributions.
Insight had already carried out an assessment of Mrs Bs attitude to investment risk in 
July 2012. It says that this produced a result of seven on a scale of ten. Which it says meant 
that Mrs B had a medium-high attitude to risk. I understand that Insight provided advice to 
Mrs B on different products in 2012. And it hasnt made it clear what product it was advising 
on when it carried out this risk questionnaire. But it was the same risk profile that Insight 
relied on for the advice provided in November 2012. And given how close it was to the 
advice I think it was okay to rely on this recent assessment.
Questionnaires like the one Insight used can be useful in providing a guide to a persons 
attitude to risk. But I think, based on some of the responses that Mrs B provided, that Insight 
should have been looking closer. The first question related to the term of the investment. 
And Mrs B selected five to ten years. She was 60 at the time of the transfer, and these funds 
represented part of her overall retirement provision. Insight should have been mindful of this 
in considering whether the term of the investment was suitable.
I also think that some of the answers should have highlighted some concerns to Insight. 
Question 7 gave a range of portfolio outcomes based on a £100,000 investment for a year. 
They ranged from portfolio A returning between £93,000 and £113,000, to Portfolio D 
returning between £69,000 and £149,000. Mrs B selected option A, which was the most 
conservative of the four options. So whilst other more general questions may have produced 
a result indicating medium to high risk, I think that Insight should have been taking the 
answers as a whole. And using this as a tool, in conjunction with the other information it 
knew about Mrs B to make an informed judgement for Mrs B. For instance, Insight also 
documented in their suitability report that Mrs B only had a moderate understanding of how 
investments work and the concept of investment risk. I think that Insight should have looked 
closer and considered Mrs Bs previous investment experience.
Overall Im not convinced that Mrs B was truly a Medium-High risk investor. I dont think that 
she was prepared to take the risk that she would lose a great deal of her original investment. 
Nor was she prepared or able to invest for a term much greater than the investments she 
already had her funds in. I think it would have been fairer to treat her as having a medium or 
balanced attitude to risk.
The UCIS that Mrs B ended up investing in carried a high degree of risk. It was a highly 
speculative investment and carried a risk that all of the capital invested may be lost. I say 
this because, from the outset, it was unclear if there would be any secondary market for the 
investment. Meaning it was illiquid, and it wasnt clear how Mrs B would be able to get her 
capital back out of this investment. It was an off-plan development, so showed no history of 
performance. So, even if Mrs B had a medium-high attitude to investment risk for this 
pension, which I dont think she did, then this investment still represented an unacceptable 
level of risk for her.
I can see that Mrs Bs overall financial circumstances meant that she had some capacity for 
loss regarding this investment. But I dont think her capacity for loss was high. The funds in this SIPP had been accumulated to provide a level of income in her retirement. Whilst it 
wasnt her only pension provision, that didnt mean that it wasnt important to the quality of 
her retirement. Or that she could afford to lose it all. She was a retail customer and Insight 
should have known that it wasnt suitable for her to invest this entire pension fund in this 
single high risk investment. The presence of other lower risk assets held elsewhere were not 
enough protection to justify an investment of this size into this UCIS.
Insights suitability report gave Mrs B a clear recommendation to transfer her existing SIPP 
to a new SIPP that would accept the UCIS being considered. The report stated that there 
would be a penalty in transferring from her existing SIPP. And also stated you appreciate 
that, in isolation, the [UCIS] represents a high degree of risk. However, when taking into 
consideration your own knowledge of the [UCIS] and your own research and then also taking 
into account the significant level of annuity income you currently receive and your other 
significant lower risk assets you are prepared to accept this High degree of risk.
I will refer back to the high level principles here. Insight had a responsibility to Mrs B to pay 
due regard to her interests and ensure that the advice they gave her was suitable. Mrs B had 
developed an interest in the UCIS in question through whatever means. Insight referred to 
seminars and presentations that Mrs B attended. This point is in dispute, but the purpose of 
any such seminars would have been to promote or generate interest. They would not have 
served to give a balanced view and inform Mrs B of the suitability of the investment for her 
circumstances. That was the job of Insight in giving her a personal recommendation.
This was the service that Mrs B was paying Insight for. It wasnt reasonable for Insight to say 
that investing in a product that carried a risk that was greater than the attitude to risk it had 
determined for her was suitable because of her knowledge and interest in the investment. 
Insight should have weighed up the risks and potential outcomes and compared that to her 
existing pension. It should have considered her plans for accessing the pension more 
closely. And having done that, I think Insight should have advised Mrs B not to transfer her 
SIPP on the basis that her existing SIPP was more suitable for her.
For the above reasons, I dont think the UCIS was a suitable product for Mrs B to transfer 
her pension funds into. And as this was the only reason given for transferring from her 
existing SIPP, then withdrawing from the funds she was invested in to transfer her SIPP was 
also unsuitable advice. 
Had Insight clearly explained to Mrs B that the transfer wasnt suitable, including why it 
wasnt, then I think that she would have followed its advice. I say that because Mrs B had an 
existing relationship with Insight. Insight explain that it advised her on a number of products. 
And it appears that she trusted the advice she was given and followed its recommendations. 
I dont think that, when presented with persuasive arguments why this transfer wasnt 
suitable, it is likely that Mrs B would have gone ahead with it. So Insight are responsible for 
the fact that Mrs B now has a SIPP, with higher annual fees, and a potentially illiquid 
investment that wasnt suitable for her. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mrs B fairly you should:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. If there is a loss, you should pay into Mrs B's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. Your payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. You shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If you are unable to pay the compensation into Mrs B's pension plan, you should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Bs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, you should pay Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused by 
disruption to her retirement plans.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Insight should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above. 
If Insight is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Insight may wish to require that Mrs B provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up such an 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark below.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.Investment 
namestatus Benchmark 
for 
comparisonfrom 
(start date)To
(end date)
Mrs Bs 
existing SIPPstill exists FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate final 
decision is 
accepted by 
Mrs B
Ive chosen this benchmark because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs B's circumstances and risk attitude. 
Mrs B may be tied to this SIPP because of the illiquid investment it holds. In order for the 
SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the investment needs to be removed 
from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Insight taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs B can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Insight pay Mrs B an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date 
Insight receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Insight 
to pay Mrs B.My final decision
For the reasons that Ive explained I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Insight Financial 
Associates Limited to compensate Mrs B in the manner that I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman