DRN-2866150
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited didnt freeze the 
interest on a lifetime mortgage during the initial Covid-19 lockdown when there were 
restrictions in the housing market.
Mr W1 is representing the estate in his capacity as Executor.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2002. When Mrs W passed away 
the lifetime mortgage continued in Mr Ws sole name until he passed away in January 2020.
In April 2020 Mr W1 emailed Aviva. He said he was the Executor of the estate, that probate 
was being applied for and that the house was going to be put on the market. He asked what 
the current balance owing was, and whether Aviva would extend the 12-month period that 
was allowed for the property to be sold.
Whilst Aviva couldnt guarantee what would happen, it said that was a long way off and as 
long as probate had been granted and the property was on the market then it would continue 
to work with the estate.
In May 2020 Mr W1 asked what rate and amount of interest was being charged before and 
after Mr Ws death, and asked whether any increase in interest rate after Mr Ws death could 
be waived due to the government restrictions placed on the housing market, until such time 
those restrictions were lifted. Aviva explained there was no uplift in rate when a customer 
died, so the interest rate (and daily interest charge) remained the same.
In reply Mr W1 asked whether Aviva should waive the interest for the duration of the 
Governments restrictions, to which Aviva said it wasnt freezing interest on lifetime 
mortgages. Mr W1 then asked if Aviva would waive the interest as a gesture of goodwill, and 
Aviva explained it wouldnt do that out of fairness to all its customers. It again reiterated that 
it would take the pandemic into consideration if the mortgage wasnt repaid within the 
12-month period set out in the contract.
The lockdown in the housing market came to an end on 22 June 2020.
It isnt clear when the property was put on the market, with one archived listing showing that 
as the end of October 2020. Probate was then granted in November 2020, and the property 
was sold in March 2021.
The estate of Mr W raised a complaint with Aviva in October 2020. Aviva replied later that 
month not upholding the complaint. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, the estate of Mr W brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly. 
The estate of Mr W didnt agree with the investigators opinion and so the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Mr W1 will accept my condolences for his loss. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the 
position he was in, losing his father and then dealing with the estate during uncertain times. 
Things cant have been easy for him. 
What I have to consider is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
And if not, consider whether the estate has suffered a loss as a result. 
The terms of a lifetime mortgage mean consumers dont make any monthly repayments, but 
instead interest accrues on the loan until the property is sold. 
The starting point in deciding this complaint is that the terms of the mortgage allowed Aviva 
to charge interest until the property is sold, so it was entitled to do so. 
Whilst our service investigates complaints against financial businesses, we are not the 
regulator and, as such, were unable to implement wider industry changes or influence 
businesses overall processes and procedures. That is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
The estate of Mr W feels that more should have been done to provide support during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It doesnt feel interest should have accrued during the lockdown period, 
as the sales process was impacted due to circumstances outside of its control. 
The estate has said We are very dissatisfied with Aviva's decision to continue to charge 
interest at a time, when through no fault of our own, we were unable to progress the sale of 
the property concerned. But equally the fact a sale couldnt be progressed wasnt Avivas 
fault either. I can only uphold a complaint if Im satisfied a business has done something 
wrong, I cant order it to make a gesture of goodwill or order it to freeze the interest when it 
did nothing wrong in continuing to charge it.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 20 March 2020 the FCA released specific 
guidance for lenders with regards to mortgages. This guidance didnt extend to equity 
release mortgages. In situations where the guidance did apply, payment deferrals were 
offered to borrowers but interest on mortgages would still accrue. So, Aviva refusing to 
suspend interest charged during this period, doesnt go against the guidance released by the 
FCA.
The estate has said its request is perfectly reasonable, and it may be. But equally Avivas 
decision not to accede to that request is also perfectly reasonable as it simply didnt have to 
agree to it.
In view of all that and as interest has been applied in line with the agreement that 
Mr and Mrs W accepted, I dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman