DRN-3162285
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down a claim on its business protection insurance policy. 
Mr D1 and Mr D2 have brought the complaint on Ds behalf. D has been helped in bringing 
this complaint by a representative. However, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments of being those of D.
What happened
D held a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. D thought 
the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case meant its 
claim should be paid. 
Aviva turned down the claim. They said the core business interruption cover and extension 
for prevention of access only provided cover in the event of damage to property and Covid-
19 hadnt caused damage to property. They said while there was an extension for disease - 
that only provided cover for the list of diseases set out by the policy. And the extension for 
prevention of access - public emergency didnt provide cover either as Covid-19 was a 
national rather than local emergency. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, D brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think the policy 
provided cover for Ds claim. 
D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. D said its business had been 
impacted due to the local occurrences of Covid-19 which had led to the Government Act.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
D. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ds claim. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy and the extension for prevention 
of access both require there to have been damage to property. The policy defines damage 
as Material loss destruction or damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused material loss, destruction or 
damage to either Ds property or to property in its vicinity. Therefore, there isnt any cover for 
Ds claim under the core business interruption section or the extension for prevention of 
access. 
Disease
The extension for disease provides cover for business interruption or interference as a result 
of a specified disease occurring at Ds premises. The policy sets out a list of specified 
diseases however, the list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ds policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore, 
this doesnt provide cover for Ds claim.
Prevention of access  public emergency
This extension provides cover for business interruption or interference due to:
The actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property in the Vicinity of the Premises which prevents 
or hinders the use or access to the Premises
I understand D thinks its unfair that Aviva have said the Governments response to the 
pandemic was due to a national emergency, rather than a local one, particularly due to the 
high number of cases in the local area. 
In reaching a decision Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High Court 
judgment in the FCAs test case is relevant as the Court considered a similar term to that 
within Ds policy and that part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court. 
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the 
vicinity of the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, 
in that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to 
the country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the 
government...I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to
provide cover in the event of an emergency in Ds local area. And while there might have 
been a high number of cases of Covid-19 in Ds local area, I dont think the Governments
response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency in Ds vicinity as opposed to 
the country as a whole. 
D has referred to the Supreme Court judgment. However, whether the claim should be paid 
still depends on the terms and conditions of the policy and in this case Im afraid it doesnt 
impact the outcome of Ds claim. I appreciate this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, 
having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ds 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman