DRN-3723526
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled his travel insurance 
claim. My references to IPA include its agents. 
What happened
Mr M had single trip travel insurance insured by IPA. In October 2021 he claimed on the 
policy for lost baggage on a trip. Mr M complained about IPAs delays in assessing his claim 
and its service. IPA upheld the complaint and offered Mr M £150 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mr M complained to us saying IPAs offer wasnt enough. He said hed spent hours on the 
phone to get through to IPA, it had given a lot of excuses about why his claim was taking so 
long and he was asked to provide information hed already given. He said in January and 
April 2022 he provided IPA with proof of ownership for the items claimed but in May 2022 
IPA requested proof again. Also IPA asked him to provide a letter from a former partner 
giving information about the claimed for watch even though hed provided photographic proof 
of ownership and told IPA that the difficult relationship hed had with the former partner 
meant he wouldnt contact the person. Mr M said hed been very upset and frustrated by how 
IPA dealt with his claim.
Mr M wants IPA to pay for his claim and his distress and inconvenience. During our 
investigation IPA said it had settled the claim, which Mr M confirmed.
Our investigator said IPA should increase the compensation for Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience to a total of £250 inclusive of its £150 offer.
IPA disagrees and wants an ombudsman decision as it said its offer was reasonable. It 
acknowledged it was responsible for some of the delay Mr M experienced but said it wasnt 
responsible for all the delay, and detailed why it thought so. For example, when Mr M 
claimed in October 2021 IPA told him to first seek a refund from the airline and it wasnt told 
the airline wouldnt accept responsibility until December 2021. IPA also gave details about 
why it had asked Mr M for some of the proof of ownership information more than once. IPA 
accepted it would have been difficult for Mr M to ask his former partner for information but 
said the evidence hed provided for the watch didnt confirm the date of purchase for the item 
which it needed to decide depreciation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about whether IPAs offer of £150 compensation for Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience was fair. IPAs now settled the claim and Mr M told us he didnt think the 
claim settlement figure was enough. But if he wants to pursue that matter he will first need to 
complain to IPA direct. If the parties cant agree Mr M can made a separate complaint to us 
about the settlement amount.
Even if I accept the points IPAs made as to why it wasnt responsible for all the delay I dont 
think its offer of £150 compensation was enough taking into account Mr Ms circumstances.
I understand why IPA wanted the purchase date for the watch, although Ive not seen it 
explained why to Mr M. But Mr M says he explained to IPA why he wasnt able to contact his 
former partner for the information and that he got very upset during the conversation, which 
IPA hasnt denied. The email IPA sent to Mr M immediately after the conversation just asked 
him for the information and I think its understandable Mr M was even more upset that IPA 
hadnt acknowledged the conversation theyd just had. His response to that email shows 
how distressed Mr M was about that matter on top of his upset and inconvenience about 
IPAs delays which IPA acknowledges were unacceptable. 
Also IPA accepts that for some items it did ask Mr M for information around ownership even 
when it had that information for some of the items. l think that unnecessarily frustrated Mr M 
when it would have been reasonable for IPA to have just asked for the information on the 
items it required.
Taking all the circumstances into account I dont think IPAs £150 compensation offer for 
Mr Ms distress and inconvenience was fair. I think our investigators recommendation, which 
Mr M has accepted, is a reasonable amount.
Putting things right
IPA must pay Mr M compensation of £250 in total, inclusive of the £150 it offered, for his 
distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr M £250 
compensation in total, inclusive of the £150 it offered, for his distress and inconvenience due 
to its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman