DRN-3516430
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2018, Ms W applied for a credit card account with Barclaycard. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £2750.
In 2021, Ms W complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms W didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ws complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it used, among other things, a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer, as well as the information Ms W provided 
during her application. Its possible that Barclaycard failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Ms W with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Barclaycard to think the initial credit limit or the increase were unaffordable. 
I say this because at the point that she applied for the credit card Ms W told Barclaycard 
that whilst she was working full time with a salary of £20,000 a year. Ms W now says she 
didnt earn that much. In this case, I attach no negative connotations to either party, if the 
declared income was not exactly correct. Had Barclaycard relied on what Ms W told them 
that would not of itself have been unreasonable. But they say they took note of an income 
check of sorts at the time. And from the actual bank statements that Ms W has provided 
from the time, the income actually received over the three months was not so very 
different from what Ms W declared to Barclaycard for them to make their lending decision. 
In any event, the bank statements show that Ms W was earning a regular income which 
was not modest. And I note that over the three months the amount paid into her account 
more than matched the amount leaving it. And the year ended with her account being in 
credit. So, whatever Ms Ws other financial commitments were, she appeared to have 
been managing her current account well at the time. 
The initial credit limit was not modest but it seems the credit limit never increased. And I 
have considered that the credit card offered 0% for balance transfers for a time. And it 
seems that Ms W made a number of balance transfers shortly after the credit card 
opened. These balance transfers amounted to a significant amount and took Ms W close 
to her new credit limit early in the life of the account. So, rather than this adding to Ms Ws 
burden of credit, it looks like Ms W was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to 
manage her existing debt by taking out this card. I say that because Ms W would have 
been saving money on interest she would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt 
seem automatically unreasonable for Barclaycard to have facilitated that.
And whilst there were some adverse markings on the credit report Ms W provided for us, I 
havent seen sufficient to think that the credit was automatically unreasonable or that 
would have put Barclaycard off supplying the credit had they known about them at the 
time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Barclaycard to think that the credit it 
provided Ms W was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Barclaycard could 
see of her management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Ms W will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Ms W to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman