DRN-3983236
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that TTT Moneycorp Ltd won't refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 8 February 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give both 
sides a chance to submit any further arguments or evidence before I issued my final 
decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened 
In May 2020 Mr U received a call from what he believed was a genuine investment 
company. He was persuaded to make a relatively small initial investment into a trading 
account. Later he was persuaded to transfer money for what he thought were shares in an 
overseas industrial project, with a view to later selling the shares at a higher price. After a 
warning about the initial investment firm appeared on the website of an overseas regulator in 
June 2020, Mr U was told that it had been acquired by a second investment company.
Between May 2020 and July 2021, Mr U sent a very significant amount of money to the 
overseas bank accounts of that second investment company, mostly in order to supposedly 
facilitate the sale of his shares or to pay various fees. Unfortunately for Mr U, he wasn't 
dealing with genuine investment companies but fraudsters. The vast majority of the money 
was sent by Mr U using his Moneycorp account following deposits from his bank account (at 
a bank I'll call B).
After the fraudsters broke off contact with Mr U he realised he'd been the victim of a scam. In 
October 2021 he reported the matter to Moneycorp (he also reported the matter to B and 
another money transfer service). All three firms rejected his claim, but as a result of a 
separate complaint considered by our service against B, Mr U has received some of his 
losses back.
Moneycorp, in its response to Mr U, said that although it does comply with all anti-money 
laundering and fraud prevention regulations, it did not have the obligations that Mr U 
suggested - specifically the obligation to conduct due diligence on the nature of the 
recipient's activities.
The matter was referred to our service but one of our investigators didn't uphold the 
complaint. They were of the view that Mr U's use of his account was in line with what might 
be expected of an account of this type and the fraudulent transactions were intermingled 
with genuine ones. The investigator was also satisfied with Moneycorp's attempts to recover 
Mr U's money.
Mr U didn't agree. In summary, he said:
-Moneycorp has clear obligations to detect unusual and out of character transactions 
but had failed to do so.
-The payments were out of character being of high value and to a series of new 
payees.
-It could and should have carried out due diligence on the recipients of his payments.
-He lacked any experience of the type of investment he was involved in but 
Moneycorp failed to carry out an adequate risk assessment.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What I've provisionally decided - and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm very sorry to hear about the losses suffered by Mr U - and the significant impact this has 
had on him. I also understand he's been suffering from serious ill-health during an already 
difficult time. However, I'm afraid that having carefully reviewed this matter I don't intend to 
conclude that Moneycorp have made a mistake.
There's no dispute that Mr U carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations - the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ("PSR 2017"), that 
means he is responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators' rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Moneycorp should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which payment service 
providers are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud.
Mr U opened his account in March 2019 and, prior to the fraud, he made a small number of 
payments to an account in another country. Those genuine payments also continued during 
the period the scam was taking place. The scam-related payments began in May 2020. All of 
the payments were made in U.S. dollars to an account in a different country and to a number 
of different payees.
 
It's first important to say that Moneycorp accounts are generally used for one purpose - that 
is to send money overseas. Inevitably then, Moneycorp would not be in the same position as 
Mr U's current account provider to assess his normal account activity. And, Mr U's limited 
previous use of the account did not provide a true picture of how he normally conducted his 
financial affairs in the same way that a current account might.
So, while Moneycorp should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions, 
it has to do that within a framework of being a service which is much more likely to be used 
for occasional larger payments. A high value payment on a current account may not be considered such when making a payment of this type. And, while the payments were regular 
they were not concerningly or inexplicably frequent.
I cannot agree that Moneycorp has the obligation to vet each and every beneficiary its 
customer instructs it to pay. Such an obligation would be onerous and practically very 
difficult. Instead, I would expect it not to make payments to beneficiaries which it knows to be 
involved in fraud (for example, because they have been previously flagged as such). The 
obligations that Mr U suggests Moneycorp have, would, in my view, only be engaged where 
it had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud and I don't think that was the case here. While 
Mr U suggests that Moneycorp could have easily identified that he was falling victim to a 
scam by searching for information about the recipient online, I don't think it would have 
known this information without Mr U providing it. The names of the recipients he sent money 
to (which is the only information that Moneycorp did have)  were quite generic and I can't  
see any negative information about them online (though I appreciate they aren't the 
businesses behind the fraud).
Moneycorp did speak to Mr U on one occasion during the fraud - in the middle of July 2021. 
Mr U enquired why his payment hadn't gone through. Moneycorp said that this might have 
been related to the fact he hadn't provided an address for the recipient. The fact that the 
banks in another country were closed for a week due to a religious festival was also 
discussed, but the purpose of the payment- beyond the fact it was for an investment was not 
discussed and Mr U did not raise any concerns about the payments. As I've already set out, 
I don't think there was any reason for Moneycorp to be concerned at this point. I can also 
see that one payment was returned to Mr U's account. A payment might be rejected or 
returned for a number of different reasons and I don't think this ought to have caused 
Moneycorp any significant concern.
It's also true that Moneycorp's banking partner (coincidentally also B), had some questions 
and concerns about the payments Mr U made. They communicated these to Moneycorp in 
October 2021 and they are what prompted it to get in touch with Mr U. When this call took 
place, Mr U had already come to the realisation that he'd fallen victim to a scam. Had this 
call taken place before that realisation, it's still likely that a significant amount of relevant 
information would have been revealed - in particular the names of the investment 
companies, the fact there had been a warning about one of them, the nature of the 
underlying investment and maybe some of the circumstances leading Mr U to make so many 
payments (though the latter was not discussed in the October 2021 call).
But that doesn't mean that this conversation ought to have taken place earlier. B's concerns 
were about money laundering - the source of the funds and the beneficial owners of the 
recipient account. They were not about the possibility that Mr U was falling victim to a scam. 
The aim of anti-money laundering regulation is primarily to prevent and detect the laundering 
of the proceeds of crime but those aims aren't always aligned with preventing scams. The 
latter requires an intervention at the point of payment, while the former often takes the form 
of ongoing monitoring and reviews of account activity. So, in this case, given the nature of 
the concerns, I don't find it surprising that questions were only raised about the activity after 
it took place.
Moneycorp did know the reason for each payment which was given as 'Investment I paying 
into pension' for all but one of the payees, so I think it should have provided a written 
warning about investment scams to Mr U when he paid those payees for the first time, but 
given the complexity of the scam and the extent to which he was involved, it's difficult to see 
how he would have been persuaded from going ahead after reading such a warning.I'd expect a warning about investment scams to advise a customer to check with the FCA 
whether a company was authorised to offer investments or not. But Mr U knew that he was 
dealing with an overseas company, one that wouldn't have appeared on the FCA website. 
From June 2020 he also knew that the initial entity he'd been dealing with had a regulatory 
warning about it, but that doesn't seem to have deterred him from continuing with a second 
investment firm. So, I don't think this kind of advice would have been impactful in Mr U's 
circumstances.
A warning about investment scams might also have mentioned being wary about offers that 
seem too good to be true, but I think Mr U was too involved in the scam for this kind of 
general statement to have had any significant impact on his decision making.
It's also important to note that, while the scam Mr U fell victim to wasn't unheard of, it wasn't, 
in my experience, particularly common and also had a high degree of sophistication. Any 
written warning would have to have covered a wide range of scenarios, so it would be limited 
in the extent to which it could be tailored to these specific circumstances, making it less likely 
to prevent his losses.
Overall then, I think Moneycorp, as a matter of good industry practice, should have given Mr 
U a general warning about investment scams at some point during the payment journey, but 
I don't think this would have made a difference to Mr U's decision to go ahead with any of the 
payments. I don't find that there were any grounds for it to do more - by questioning Mr U 
about the payments or finding out more detailed background information about them. And, 
it's only that more detailed questioning that is likely to have revealed the scam and 
prevented Mr U's loss.
I can see that Moneycorp did attempt to recover Mr U's money by sending recall requests to 
the receiving banks in October 2021. It appears that they either did not receive a response 
or, in one case, were told that the beneficiary account had been closed a year before. Given 
that the recall attempts were made within a few days of Moneycorp learning of the fraud and, 
given the response received, it's unlikely they would have ever been successful, I'm satisfied 
with its attempts to recover Mr U's money.
So, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr U, for the reasons I've explained, I do not 
intend to find Moneycorp responsible for his loss.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I've explained, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Moneycorp didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr U expressed his disappointment 
with the outcome and that he could be left significantly out of pocket, while the fraudsters 
faced no consequences.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have little further to add to my provisional decision. While I understand Mr Us 
disappointment with the outcome, my considerations must be limited to the actions of 
Moneycorp, not the fraudsters. And, for the reasons already set out, I havent found it to be 
at fault. So, my final decision remains unchanged from the provisional decision set out 
above. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman