The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Financial Services)
failed to tell her the promotional interest rate on her credit card was due to come to an end.
Miss M also complains that Post Office failed to refund the additional interest she was
charged which resulted in her account being passed to debt collectors.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 June 2020 - a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold Miss M's complaint and how I thought Post Office should 
resolve it. I said:
What happened
Miss Ms Post Office credit card had 0% promotional interest rate that was due to end on 18
January 2019. Miss M says she expected notification from Post Office before the
promotional rate ended but didnt receive one. In February 2019 Miss M spoke with Post
Office after she received a statement saying she would be charged £36.13 in interest. Miss
M says Post Office agreed to waive the interest and confirmed it hadnt contacted her about
the change to her interest rate.
No refund of the interest was made by Post Office and Miss M says that over the following
months she contacted it several times to query interest and late payments she had been
charged. Post Offices contact notes show it agreed to waive interest and charges at various
points. Miss M cleared the outstanding balance in April 2019 and cancelled the direct debit
instruction. But interest was applied to Miss Ms account and over the following months late
payments were charged by Post Office.
Miss M complained and Post Office responded on 2 July 2019. Whilst it was unable to find a
call recording, Post Office accepted Miss M had been told she would receive a refund of
interest and apologised. Post Office agreed to refund interest to Miss Ms account along with 
late payment fees. It also agreed to remove any late payment information from her credit file. 
Post Office also offered Miss M £50 to apologise for the service she received.
Miss M paid £36 on 15 July 2019 to clear the outstanding balance. Post Office later refunded 
the interest and late payments Miss M had been charged which put her account into credit 
by £36.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They
thought Post Office had dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything
DRN-1986983else. Miss M asked to appeal and said that the situation had gone on for several months, her 
information had been reported to debt collectors and that £50 didnt reflect the impact of
what had happened. As Miss M asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that the credit card terms say Post Office will notify card holders of an
interest rate change or increase by either including that information on their statements or
sending them notification in advance. I can see Post Office included the end date for the
promotional period on its November 2018 statement so Im satisfied it did notify Miss M in
line with the terms.
However, I haven't reached the same conclusions as the investigator as I don't agree that
Post Office's offer of £50 is a fair way to resolve Miss M's complaint. Like Post Office, I
accept that in February 2019 it told Miss M the £36.13 interest set out in her statement would 
be refunded. Whether or not that payment was contractually due, I'm satisfied Post Office 
told Miss M it would be refunded. As a result, Miss M continued to call and query the
outstanding balance over the following months.
Post Office's contact notes show in April 2019 Miss M called and was again told interest
would be refunded and given the outstanding balance. Miss M repaid the outstanding
balance but residual interest was applied the following month after she had cancelled the
direct debit instruction. But I'm satisfied Miss M acted on the basis she was given a figure
she needed to repay and was told outstanding interest payments would be refunded. Post
Office didn't refund interest to Miss M's credit card until it responded to her complaint in July
2019 which led to missed payments being reported on her credit file and its collections
department getting involved.
Ultimately, Post Office has resolved the situation by refunding interest and charges as well
as removing any adverse information it reported to the credit reference agencies. But I agree 
with Miss M in that £50 isn't a fair way to resolve the complaint.
I note the issues began in February 2019 and weren't resolved until July 2019, when Post
Office responded to Miss M's complaint. In addition, I note Post Office reported adverse
credit to credit reference agencies which doesn't reflect the situation in this case. Miss M has 
told us she found contact from Post Office's collections department to be particularly
distressing. I think Post Office should increase the settlement offered from £50 to £200.
In my view, £200 more fairly takes the impact of Post Office's errors on Miss M into account.
Unless I receive some new information that changes my mind, I intend to uphold this
complaint and direct Post Office to pay Miss M £200 for the distress and inconvenience
caused by its actions.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss M responded to say the 
outcome was satisfactory and that it was important that all adverse information should be 
removed from her credit file. Post Office responded to say it accepts the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded to say they accept, I see no reason to change my original 
conclusions. I still think Miss M's complaint should be upheld and that in addition to the 
action Post Office has already taken in removing any adverse credit information it reported 
and refunding interest and charges, Post Office should pay her a total of £200.
Miss M has confirmed that her acceptance is contingent on Post Office's removal of the 
adverse credit information. Our investigator recently contacted Post Office and it has 
confirmed the steps required to remove the information have already been taken.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland
(UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Financial Services) to pay Miss M £200 less any
compensation already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman