DRN-2798392
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster  
What happened
 Mr B says he noticed a missed call on his phone and called the number back. He doesnt 
remember the number he was called from. When Mr B called the number back he got an 
automated message to say hed called HMRC and was given options to press. Mr B 
chose the option that applied when returning a call. Mr B was connected to someone he 
believed was an HMRC officer who asked him security questions. Mr B now knows he 
was talking to a scammer. The scammer knew some personal details like Mr Bs date of 
birth and national insurance number and provided Mr B with his HMRC collar number. 
The scammer told Mr B the police would be in touch and if he didnt pay by midday a 
warrant for his arrest would be issued, his accounts frozen and his passport taken away. 
Mr B was being given the opportunity to pay because he usually paid his tax. The 
scammer then terminated the call. 
A minute or so later Mr B received another call from someone saying they were a police 
officer. Mr B was provided with the officers name and collar number. The caller was 
aware of Mr Bs previous call with HMRC. He reiterated that Mr B needed to pay the 
outstanding tax by midday or the warrant would be issued. Mr B was provided with the 
serial number of the warrant and told that if he made the payment the warrant would be 
cancelled. 
Mr B then received another call, this time from the original HMRC officer. At this point 
Mr B agreed to make a payment of £1,800.50, which he paid using his mobile banking 
app. The scam continued beyond this point with Mr B making card payments from an 
account with another bank but this complaint is only about the payment made from his 
HSBC account. So I will not be making reference to those other matters in this decision.
Mr B says that at the time he received the calls he was expecting a tax rebate for a 
similar sum. He had engaged a company to help him to complete a self-assessment form 
and been advised by that company that it calculated he should receive a rebate of 
£1,745.60. Mr B has also explained that he was led to believe that if he didnt pay hed 
lose his work related pension and associated benefits. This really worried Mr B as he had 
servied in the armed forces for many years. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It has accepted it didnt provide adequate warnings to Mr B 
at the time of payment and so agreed to refund him 50% of his loss (£900.25). But HSBC 
held Mr B partially responsible for the loss, as he could have completed some checks to 
confirm it was a genuine call; such as calling HMRC or the police. HSBC also noted it 
contacted the receiving bank when Mr B reported the scam, but no funds remained.
Mr B was unhappy with HSBCs response and asked this service to consider his complaint. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought HSBC should have fully reimbursed 
Mr B. HSBC didnt agree with the investigator. It said Mr B failed to take reasonable and 
appropriate steps to protect himself, the scam was a common one and information about it 
was readily available, HMRC was highly unlikely to issue a warrant  and the investigator 
failed to take into account Mr Bs characteristics. HSBC also said the investigator failed to 
consider whether Mr B was grossly negligent. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr B 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 50% 
of the money Mr B lost.
The money was taken from Mr Bs current account. Its not clear how Mr B would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so HSBC 
should also pay interest at the rate of 8% on the money it should have refunded as 
set out below.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr B had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr B failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for it to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code. And, 
for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mr B did not act with gross negligence.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster/s for 
Mr B and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on his thoughts 
and actions. Im also persuaded by what Mr B has told this service about how this scam 
happened. His recollections are consistent with what he told HSBC when he reported the 
scam and with what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
When Mr B called the number back he heard an automated message saying hed 
called HMRC. Mr B, unaware that HMRC scams are common, didnt doubt what hed 
heard and so believed he was calling HMRC. In the circumstances I dont think this 
was an unreasonable presumption.
The scammer took Mr B through security questions - which is what HMRC would do - 
and it made the scammer sound like he was legitimately calling from HMRC. 
The scammer knew Mr Bs date of birth and national insurance number. This gave 
the officer credibility and enabled them to build trust as HMRC would be aware of this 
information. Mr B had recently completed a self-assessment tax form to apply for a tax refund 
through a company. Ive seen a letter he received from this company saying Mr B 
was due a tax refund of £1,745. In the circumstances I can see why Mr B didnt find 
the call entirely unexpected and why Mr B thought HMRC had reviewed the position. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable conclusion to draw.  
Mr B then received a call from someone saying they were a police officer which was 
as the original caller had suggested and so added to the plausibility of what hed 
been told by someone he believed to be from HMRC. It also quite reasonably made 
the level of threat feel greater and more real. Mr B recalls that he was provided with 
details like the officers name and collar number and the arrest warrant number and 
the telephone number of the station when he requested it. Overall, these details 
made the police officer appear to be legitimate, added to the plausibility of the scam 
and increased the pressure on Mr B to act quickly.
The fake police officer corroborated what the fake HMRC officer told Mr B, making it 
appear as though two well-known bodies of authority were liaising and giving Mr B 
less reason to question what hed been told.
Im satisfied Mr B was placed under a considerable amount of pressure by the 
fraudster/s to make a quick payment. Mr B was convinced that if he didnt make the 
payment in the limited timescale given to him, he would be arrested  a threat that 
was particularly worrying for Mr B as he was a member of the armed forces. This was 
of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it would 
disrupt Mr Bs thinking and make him more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this 
happened here to Mr B and that in all the circumstances his response was not 
unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Mr B to think clearly in the moment 
particularly given Mr B received calls in quick succession leaving him little opportunity 
to make enquiries. 
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC has shown that Mr B made the payment without a 
reasonably basis for believing that the payment was legitimate, and Im satisfied he wasnt 
grossly negligent for broadly the same reasons.  
   
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ive found that Mr B ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And that
its fair and reasonable that HSBC UK Bank Plc reimburses him now, in resolution to this 
complaint.
I therefore require that HSBC UK Bank Plc:
- pay Mr B the remaining 50% of the money lost - £900.25;
- pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date HSBC 
declined Mr Bs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement  less any tax 
lawfully deductible.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman