DRN-3120434
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the workmanship to a tiled floor provided by Fairmead Insurance 
Limited after a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Following an escape of water in Mr Ds property, Fairmead arranged for new tiles to be laid 
in the kitchen area. But Mr D said hed had nothing but problems with the repair work. The 
tiles were crooked and werent aligned to any of the walls. There was a dip in the middle of 
the floor and a hollow sound and clicking when the tiles were walked over. Mr D says the 
problem has been going on for over two years and an independent tiler says they havent 
been laid properly. So he wants Fairmead to arrange for the tiles to be re-fitted correctly.
Fairmead said the floor had been replaced as part of the reinstatement works following 
Mr Ds claim. After Mr D complained its trades team had returned to the property. But they 
hadnt found any loose tiles. And after replacing a damaged tile they informed Mr D the 
hollow sound was coming from the concrete under the flooring rather than the tiles 
themselves. Fairmead said this indicated the problem was with the concrete slab rather than 
the reinstatement work. And it didnt feel it needed to do anything else.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Fairmeads response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Based on what shed seen, our investigator didnt think 
Fairmead had acted fairly. She didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr D to expect the tiles to 
look right and be laid square to his house. 
Fairmead had relied on its surveyors opinion. But the surveyor had only looked at photos of 
the work. And she was satisfied a tiling company whod visited the property would have the 
experience to say if the tiles had been laid correctly. 
Our investigator accepted there might be a problem with the concrete floor under the tiles. It 
wouldnt have been damaged during the escape of water. So she didnt think Fairmead 
should be responsible for any pre-existing condition. To put things right our investigator 
recommended that Fairmead arrange for the tiles to be replaced. But if there were any repair 
costs related to the concrete floor Mr D should cover that expense. 
Fairmead didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Fairmead said its surveyor had enough evidence to make an assessment without visiting the 
property. And it felt the surveyors professional view carried more weight than the tiler. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. He doesnt feel the kitchen floor has been restored to the 
same condition it was in before the escape of water. And his tilers report says the tiles 
havent been fitted properly and are likely to move and fail over time.
Fairmead disagrees. It says three different parties believe the replacement tiles have been 
laid to an acceptable standard. And the insurer feels any remaining problems are due to the 
pre-existing condition of the concrete slab before the escape of water. 
Ive looked at the notes for Mr Ds claim. Fairmeads contractors re-attended the property 
after Mr D complained about the standard of the work. There was a loose tile in the hallway 
which was damaged during repairs and the contractors agreed to return the next day to 
replace it. 
But the contractors didnt agree that two tiles were loose in the kitchen. The report says they 
made a different sound when walked upon. And that suggested there was a void 
underneath. Holes were made in the grouting so adhesive could be inserted under the tile 
before re-grouting.
After examining the work an independent tilers judgement was that the tiles had been 
bedded down using a dot and dab method which didnt support the full tile. This would 
ultimately cause movement and failure. The tiler said the correct approach for larger tiles 
such as the ones used would have been fully bedded applications of adhesive.
I dont doubt the surveyors expertise. But he was relying on photos taken during a previous 
visit by another party. And I dont think it would be reasonable to disregard the opinion of a 
tiling business who have visited the property and examined the flooring on site.
Ive also looked at the inspection report provided to Fairmead. It notes a clear slope on one 
row of tiles which it says appears to be due to the original concrete floor. Although no loose 
tiles were noted a few of the tiles made a hollow sound when walked on or tapped. And the 
report confirms the tiles are in line but out slightly with the room.
The surveyor felt the contractors had carried out a satisfactory job. He said the level of the 
floor tiles would be determined by the pre-existing condition of the concrete base on which 
they were laid. And the positioning of the tiles was at the mercy of the house and whether it 
was square. 
I can see from the photos in the report that there is a noticeable dip in the centre of the 
kitchen. And the run of the tiles is out of line with both the walls and the kitchen fittings. I 
appreciate that few rooms are truly square. But I would expect kitchen tiles, especially of the 
sort shown in the photos, to be laid in such a way as to match the existing kitchen furniture 
and the run of the room. At the very least the tiles should run parallel to at least one wall and 
the furniture attached to it. And I would expect the contractors to take that into consideration 
when determining how to match and lay the tile flooring.
Based on what Ive seen I can understand Mr Ds frustration. It is possible there are some 
issues with the underlying concrete floor. But I would expert Fairmeads contractors to have 
taken reasonable steps to remedy any dips in the concrete base to ensure the main tiled 
area was level. And I wouldnt expect such steps to produce a sound when walked upon that 
doesnt appear to have existed beforehand. 
I appreciate that most rooms arent perfectly square. But it is possible to ensure tiles are laid 
so that the tile line runs parallel to the main items in the line of sight, whether they are walls 
or fitted units.
Fairmeads report accepts the tiles do run slightly out with the room. And the report says its 
most evident against the plinths and rear doors. The report notes a 15mm discrepancy 
against the back door which, if squared up, would square up everything in the room.Our investigator recommended that Fairmead arrange for the tiles to be replaced. But she 
said any repairs that might be necessary to the concrete underneath should be covered by 
Mr D at his own cost. I understand this has been discussed with Mr D and hes happy to pay 
for any remedial work on the concrete base before the tiles are refitted.
Fairmeads report accepts it would be a big task and would mean uplifting the entire floor. 
But based on what Ive seen I think that would be the right outcome. I dont think Fairmead 
has put Mr D back in the position he was in before the escape of water.  
Putting things right
Its my decision that Fairmead should replace the tiled flooring in the kitchen area, taking 
note of the comments in the various reports with regards to fitting and alignment. Any repair 
work necessary to the concrete base to allow the tiles to be replaced should be paid for by 
Mr D at his own expense.
If Mr D would prefer to ask another business to replace the tiling he could discuss this with 
Fairmead. But if Fairmead is willing to make a cash settlement I would only expect it to offer 
the amount it would pay its own contractors to carry out the work.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited should arrange 
for the tiles to be replaced. The costs of any repairs to the concrete flooring underneath to 
allow re-fitting are to be paid for by Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman