DRN-2463917
The complaint
Mrs D complained about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a Mothercare store card in 2002. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. The 
company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to 
AXA throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in November 2020, comprehensively 
setting out why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to 
provide any further submissions or information to me within one month. That PD should be 
read in conjunction with this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im now able to make a final decision and Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mrs D.
In my PD I said I thought it was much more likely Mrs D agreed to have the PPI policy and 
would have also known it wasnt something she needed with her store card account. Thats 
because shed previously been using her card without PPI and it was added later which 
makes me think she subsequently agreed to it.
Our adjudicator was also told by Mrs Ds representatives that she was entitled to what 
seems to be very generous protection with her job. The adjudicator originally thought this 
could have made the PPI unsuitable for Mrs D. However, I considered the type of job she 
had and how long shed be in it. And I didnt think her having 12 months full and 12 months 
half sick-pay was very likely because this is quite an unusually high level of benefits, seldom 
seen outside only a few occupations. In my PD I therefore asked to see more information or 
evidence about this. 
However, no such information has been forthcoming, and I think Mrs D sickness protection 
with her job would have been considerably less than the amount quoted on her behalf.
Having waited for the time I set in the PD to expire, it seems neither party wants to send in 
any other new information or arguments in response. So, theres no reason for me to change 
the findings I set out previously. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. And I dont require AXA France IARD to pay any 
compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman