DRN-1724972
 
The complaint
Miss M says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Miss M has said Satsuma was happy to lend to her when it knew of 
her poor financial circumstances. The lending has been detrimental to her credit record and 
finances. Miss M has paid an extortionate amount in interest.                            
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Satsuma provided to Miss M between 
December 2017 and December 2018. Miss Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 19/12/2017 06/12/2018 12 £420.00
2 03/02/2018 07/12/2018 12 £250.00
3 09/07/2018 07/12/2018 12 £150.00
4 08/12/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,010.00
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to her were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving Miss M the loans. 
Miss M didnt agree with the adjudicator. She says Satsuma should have taken more care 
before lending to her. Miss M told us she sometimes repaid a loan early only to come back 
for further borrowing. Miss M is still in debt.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included information about Miss Ms income and expenditure to assess whether the 
loans were affordable for her. It also included a credit risk assessment and fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. 
For the first loan Miss Ms income was recorded as being £1,525 per month. Her expenditure 
was £500 a month to which Satsuma added a safeguard buffer amount of £520.36 per 
month. So, this would leave Miss M with a disposable monthly income of £434.92 after 
taking account of the monthly loan repayment. On this basis, I dont think the loan looks 
unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
For loan two, Miss Ms monthly income and expenditure was recorded as being the same as 
for loan one. Again, Satsuma added a buffer of £588.21 which after taking account of the loan repayment would leave Miss M with a disposable income each month of £395.29. So 
again, I think the loan looks affordable. 
The same tests for loans three and four left Miss M with a disposable monthly income of 
£248.73 and £280.60 respectively. So, I think all of the lending looked affordable on a 
pounds and pence basis. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. And I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Miss M provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned 
that she was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Miss Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if her 
circumstances were different Miss Ms actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  
had been obtained. But I dont think there is anything in the information Miss M gave and 
Satsuma obtained that would have caused it to look further into Miss Ms financial situation. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Miss M. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Miss M for evidence of her income and outgoings 
which Satsuma could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by, Satsuma 
before it lent to Miss M. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led 
Satsuma to conclude that it should decline Miss Ms applications for the loans. And there 
isnt anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Miss M. So, I dont think 
Satsuma was wrong to have provided these loans, based sold on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Miss M wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate 
my conclusion to Miss Ms complaint will be a disappointment to her, but I hope I have 
managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
I note that loan four is still outstanding and I would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat 
Miss M fairly when arranging repayment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman