DRN-3361749
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his home emergency policy, 
about how Aviva filled in part of his drive they excavated to clear a blocked drain.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In August 2021 a problem arose with the drains at Mr Rs property. He contacted Aviva and 
they sent an engineer to identify the cause of the problem. The engineer diagnosed a 
blocked drain under the drive at the side of Mr Rs property. To fix the problem, the affected 
area of drive (the surface was tarmac) was excavated and roots removed from the drain. 
Mr R asked Aviva to resurface the excavated area of drive with tarmac but was told the 
terms and conditions of the policy didnt provide for this. Rather, they were only required to 
refill the excavated area. But Mr R said hed been told by the engineer who attended that it 
wouldnt be safe to park his vehicle (a camper van) on the affected area. The engineer also 
left Mr R with a toughened plastic trench board to cover the area of drive until a permanent, 
resurfacing solution was put in place.
Mr R was unhappy with the situation, believing it wasnt safe for him to park his camper van 
on the affected area of drive. He thought Aviva should resurface the area. Because they 
wouldnt, he raised a complaint.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, Aviva referred to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which provided for the excavated area to be re-filled and left level 
and safe. They didnt provide for full reinstatement of the excavated area. 
Unhappy at Avivas final response, Mr R complained to this service. The main point of his 
complaint was that Aviva hadnt filled in the part of his driveway excavated to leave it level 
and safe for his vehicle to be parked on. As hed have to incur the cost of resurfacing the 
affected area to make it safe, he wanted Aviva to resurface it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva had acted fairly. He 
noted information from Avivas Health and Safety Department and their conclusion 
the ground was safe for Mr R to park his vehicle in the short term. The investigator 
also noted Avivas evidence that they used a tool to compact the ground after re-
filling. Based on this the investigator concluded the ground had been left safe. While 
the investigator thought it was unusual for the plastic trench board to have been left, 
he didnt think this outweighed what Aviva had said.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He didnt think the ground had been left safe, given the 
engineer who attended specifically told him it wasnt safe to park his camper van on it 
(and left the plastic trench board). He also thought leaving the trench board indicated 
the area wasnt safe. As the engineer had been on site, Mr R thought his view carried 
more weight. Mr R also thought it wouldnt be possible for the area to have been left 
safe without the surface being reinstated (resurfaced) in some form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr R.
The key issue in Mr Rs complaint is that Aviva didnt leave the part of the drive they 
excavated in a safe enough condition for him to be able to park his camper van on it. Mr R 
maintains that as the engineer left a plastic trench board to cover the affected area, this 
meant it wasnt safe to park on it. For their part, Aviva maintain they did leave the affected 
area in a safe condition. In support of their view, they cite the opinion of their Health and 
Safety Department that the condition of the affected area is safe in the short term (provided 
Mr R completes the full, permanent remedial work required). Aviva also say the affected 
area was compacted, using a tool (a tamper tool) designed for the purpose. They add this is 
their standard approach in this situation.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the photographs and other evidence. On 
balance, I agree with Avivas view the work carried out was sufficient to leave the affected 
area in a safe condition, which would (in the short term) enable Mr R to park his camper van. 
I know this will be disappoint Mr R, so Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
What isnt in dispute is that the drive was excavated to enable the drain to be unblocked, nor 
that the plastic trench board was left at the property. Aviva dont have a record of the board 
having been left (or why). Mr R says he was told by the engineer that it wasnt safe to park 
his camper van on the affected area (implying that leaving the trench board was consistent 
with that view). I dont doubt what Mr R has said (and Aviva dont have anything to contradict 
it). So, Ive considered Mr Rs view against what Aviva have said.
 
Aviva have told us their standard approach is to refill any excavated ground and to compact 
the refilled area with a tamper tool. Theyve provided a photograph of the tool that would 
have been used at Mr Rs property, and Ive no reason to doubt it was used to compact the 
refilled area, leaving it level. The photographs Ive seen indicate the ground is level. So, the 
question then becomes whether it was safe.
On balance, Im persuaded that it was. I say that partly because of the statements from 
Avivas Health and Safety Team to that effect, but also because of Avivas policy of using a 
tamper tool to compact the ground, making it capable of bearing weight (and therefore safe). 
I also think, even if the engineer left the trench board because he thought it was necessary, 
the purpose of so doing would be to make the ground safe. So, while Im persuaded by 
Avivas view that the ground was left level and safe, I dont think the presence of the trench 
board negates that view.
Ive also considered what the policy says, given Aviva cited it in their final response. The 
relevant section states:
Temporary reinstatement: the re-filling of any necessary excavation to leave the 
ground level and safe. This does not include the like-for-like reinstatement of 
decorative elements such as hard or soft landscaping, drives, pathways, walls, flower 
beds or lawns.Looking at this, I think its clear that refilling the excavated part of the drive is only intended 
to leave the ground level and safe. Its also clear it doesnt require (as in the case of Mr Rs 
drive) the resurfacing of the tarmac. So, Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in 
how they filled in the excavated area of drive. Nor that they should have re-surfaced the 
tarmac on the affected area.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman