DRN-2475062
The complaint
Miss C complains about a fixed sum loan provided to her by Madison CF UK Limited (trading 
as 118 118 Money) which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Miss C with a loan of £2000 on 18 January 2019. The loan was to 
be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £190.84. If Miss C made each payment when it 
was due, shed pay £4580.16 in total. 
Miss C says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to her.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. She said 
that in her opinion, 118 118 Money did not carry out proportionate checks but based on the 
bank statements submitted by Miss C from around the time the loan was granted, she felt 
118 118 Money would have found that the repayments were affordable, if they had carried 
out proportionate checks.
Miss C responded and said she didnt agree. Miss C said there were other essential 
expenditure items at the time that were not presented on the bank statements that she paid 
in cash. She listed in detail what these were. She said, once these were taken into 
consideration, that her essential expenditure was more than her income. So, she says, 118 
118 Money, shouldnt have agreed to the loan because of this.
Our adjudicator then looked at Miss Cs response and took into consideration some of what 
she had listed, she concluded that some of these costs were essential and that even if she 
took these into consideration, that Miss C would still have been able to afford the loan 
repayments. Miss C disagreed with our adjudicator. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When 118 118 Money lent to Miss C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
118 118 Money was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Miss Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that 118 118 Money had to consider both the risk to it that Miss C wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Miss C of not being able to 
make these repayments. In particular, 118 118 Money had to consider Miss Cs ability to 
make repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, 
without Miss C having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  118 118 Money needed to take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Miss Cs 
current income. It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate of, Miss Cs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to 
the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be reasonable 
and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Cs case, Ive considered the 
following questions:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Cs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, 118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss C about her income 
and expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Did 118 118 Money carry out proportionate checks?
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how 118 118 Money asked about Miss Cs financial 
circumstances by asking Miss C to disclose her income and expenditure as well as by 
checking her credit file. But Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that 
because there was some data on the credit search 118 118 Money carried out that including 
a relatively high revolving credit balance, that ought to have given it concerns that it needed 
to find out more. In addition, the loan was over a term of 24 months. 118 118 Money needed 
to ensure the repayments were sustainable over that long period of time and based on what 
it had in front of it.
For the above reason, I consider 118 118 Moneys checks should have included a full review 
of Miss Cs financial circumstances, including further verification of her expenditure so it 
could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable. So, I dont think the checks it carried 
out were proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?I need to think about what 118 118 Money would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. Our adjudicator asked Miss C to provide her bank statements from 
around the time she applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that 
118 118 Money should have done. But I think looking at her bank statements would give me 
the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
I have looked through the bank statements. When I look at her expenditure in relation to her 
income on these statements, I agree with our adjudicator, that it looks like she had enough 
disposable income each month to comfortably afford the loan repayments.
Miss C has recently responded to our adjudicators conclusion about what was seen on her 
bank statements around the time the loan was granted. Miss C says there were several 
essential costs that were not shown on there as she paid them in cash or by using a credit 
card. This included items such as transport costs. So, I have considered what Miss C has 
said here. 
As I have already concluded, I need to think about what 118 118 Money would have seen if 
it had carried out proportionate checks. When I think about what Miss C has said about this 
additional expenditure, I do need to consider whether and also how 118 118 Money would 
have uncovered or found out about these additional costs Miss C says were essential and a 
regular monthly cost at that time. Miss C hadnt declared these costs to 118 118 Money 
when she was asked for her monthly expenditure figure and they were not shown on her 
bank statements. This does raise the issue for me as to whether proportionate checks (in 
whatever way 118 118 Money carried them out) would have uncovered the additional 
expenditure that Miss C said she paid either with cash or by using a credit card.
That being said, I dont need to make any specific findings on this, because I agree with our 
adjudicator when she says the loan repayments were affordable anyway when taking into 
consideration the costs that Miss C had identified that she felt were essential. I agree that it 
would be fair and reasonable for the costs that Miss C recently mentioned for medicine, 
transport and childcare be included as essential expenditure. But I think, to go further than 
that and include the other items of expenditure listed by Miss C would on balance, not be. I 
have come to that conclusion based on what I have read from Miss Cs submission about 
what this additional spend was for.
I think reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown 118 118 Money, that Miss C 
would have been able to repay the loan repayments in a sustainable way. I have based this 
conclusion on what I have seen in Miss Cs bank statements and also taking into 
consideration some of the costs that I have listed above that Miss C identified in her recent 
submission to our service. 
In conclusion, I do not think 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks when it agreed 
to lend to Miss C. But based on what I have in front of me, including the additional 
information provided by Miss C, I dont think the loan repayments were unaffordable for her 
at the time she was granted the loan. So, I think further checks wouldnt have shown that 
118 118 Money lent irresponsibly to Miss C.
I know this will be a disappointing for Miss C and Im sorry it is not the outcome she was 
looking for. But for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint for the reasons set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman