DRN-3593811
The complaint
Ms S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) failed to deal with her 
building insurance claim properly, following an escape of water at her home. She also 
complains RSAs contractors negligently caused further damage to her home and contents.
What happened
Ms S first had an escape of water at her home in 2017 and made a claim to RSA following 
this, and later a complaint regarding problems shed experienced in her claim journey. She 
brought her complaint to us, with a Final Decision issued in February 2019 requiring RSA to 
pay Ms S various amounts.
Shortly before this, in January 2019, a further significant escape of water occurred at Ms Ss 
home  a water pipe in the loft fractured. The house was empty at this time, and the leak 
appears to have continued for many hours until discovered and stopped. By then, water had 
damaged most rooms in Ms Ss home, also causing significant further contents damage.
RSAs agents attended Ms Ss home about one week after the leak to assess the damage 
and attended some days later to deliver some drying machines. However, about one week 
later, Ms S discovered the ceiling in one of the bedrooms had collapsed, causing further 
damage. It soon transpired the ceiling contained asbestos, and specialist surveys found that 
asbestos particles had been inadvertently spread to other areas of Ms Ss home.
It was initially intended RSA would repair Ms Ss home from the damage caused by the 
second incident  she had already received settlement to cover the cost of repairs following 
the first incident. However, for various reasons the relationship between Ms S and RSA 
broke down irretrievably towards the end of 2019 and all subsequent contact between the 
parties was through this service. No repairs had been undertaken, and Ms Ss home 
remained uninhabitable. Also, the contents claim had not been resolved.
Ms S had in fact raised her complaints to RSA many months before this, in the weeks after 
the leak  which I very broadly summarise as follows:
- RSA didnt show enough urgency in the early weeks of the claim  there were missed 
appointments, and the loft area (where the leak occurred) wasnt properly inspected.
- And because the loft area wasnt properly inspected, opportunities to identify it was 
saturated were missed, meaning opportunities to prevent the ceiling collapse  and 
subsequent asbestos contamination - were missed.
RSAs response said it still needed to investigate the claim in order to determine liability. And 
it had attempted to book a site visit on many occasions without success, asking Ms S to be 
available for one otherwise her claim couldnt progress. Ms S was unhappy with this 
response, as it failed to address any of the complaints she had raised. So, she brought this 
second leak complaint to us quite soon after the leak occurred.
One of our investigators attempted to broker a way forward, but with little success. Ms S 
became unhappy how RSA was dealing with her contents claim, believing their agents had 
failed to list all the water-damaged items taken from her home for disposal and/or cleaning. 
She felt items had been lost, or even stolen, and the final lists provided by RSA didnt 
provide a complete list of the items taken. And Ms S was also unhappy, believing RSAs 
contractors had negligently spread asbestos debris throughout her home, causing further 
damage to her contents, most likely meaning most of her contents would need destroying.
An investigator issued her view on this case in July 2020 upholding Ms Ss complaint, 
although both RSA and Ms S disagreed with most elements of that view. And after a further 
period of exchange between the parties, the case was passed to me to review.
By this time, it was March 2021. However, I concluded the case wasnt ready for a 
meaningful decision to be compiled. The property had remained untouched, undried, with 
asbestos contaminated contents still inside it for over two years by this point. Any 
assessments undertaken by RSA on the condition of the house, and the contents inside, 
would by now be out of date. And given the potential, due to the passage of time, for further 
deterioration in the fabric of the house to have occurred, I decided that updated 
assessments were needed. And this included the need for a full whole-house asbestos 
survey  RSAs previous one only focussed on certain rooms.
Conscious of the breakdown in relationship, and that Ms S remained firm in wanting to avoid 
dealing with RSA, I set out what I felt was a pragmatic route-map that would allow this 
complaint to be resolved. I felt any decision I issued needed to provide complete finality for 
both parties  no awards contingent on the provision of certain evidence or actions. And no 
need for the parties to interact if the decision was accepted by Ms S. And as both parties 
had by this time agreed a cash settlement was the preferred option, this meant being in a 
position to confidently state how much cash RSA needed to pay Ms S in relation to every 
element of her claim. So, I suggested that the following needed to happen  broadly 
accepted by both parties  to get to that position.
- There needed to be an updated building survey.
- Ms S should engage her own surveyor  paid for by RSA  to work with RSAs surveyor 
to agree on the scope of works (SOW) needed to repair the house. First and Second 
claim damage would need to be separated, where possible.
- Once the SOW was agreed, Ms Ss surveyor would be engaged to manage a tendering 
process for the work  it being accepted the amount to be paid by RSA needed to cover 
the cost of local tradespeople, rather than be costed using RSAs approved book-rates. 
RSA would then agree to meet the cost of one of the tenders.
- Ms Ss chosen surveyor would also project manage the whole house repair program (so, 
damage caused by both claim events), again being paid by RSA for this work.
- That RSA would engage their own specialist asbestos contractor to revisit the house and 
undertake a full house survey. And further this contractor would be engaged to list and 
dispose of all contaminated items still within the home.
I asked Ms S to source three surveyors to work on her behalf, so RSA could agree which 
one theyd be willing to pay for. However, this task proved problematic for Ms S for various 
reasons. So, I asked RSA to provide details of three local surveyors for whose work they 
could vouch, for Ms S to choose from. Despite her efforts, Ms S was still unable to provide 
specific details of any surveyor she wished to engage  whether suggested by RSA or 
sourced by herself. So, no work was undertaken to re-assess her house, or compile an 
updated schedule of works.
Attempts were also made to progress the contents elements of this claim. When RSAs 
agents first removed damaged contents in 2019, they were split into beyond economical repair (BER), and those capable of restoration. No agreement had been reached on the 
respective valuations, and no settlement paid to Ms S. And it was clear the values initially 
attached to the BER items didnt reflect Ms Ss policy provided new-for-old cover and 
undervalued her items.
Ms S was asked to re-value the BER lists, and the restoration lists. She provided updated 
values, which were sent to RSA. They agreed with her valuations for most of the items, 
applying a wear and tear deduction against the clothing items of 50%, which Ms S didnt 
agree with. RSA has now made payments totalling £30,000 to Ms S as part-payment 
towards her total contents settlement. And Ms S has also provided valuations for the 
clothing items that were to be restored, which RSA has validated. But no actions were taken 
to list, dispose and value the contents that remain in the house.
RSA has also now placed Ms S in a hotel, from October 2021  initially for six months (with 
an option to extend to nine months) and paid a subsistence of £24.95 per day  and paid six 
months upfront for this.
However, despite the efforts of all parties involved, many of the fundamental aspects of this 
claim didnt progress as anticipated in the months after my involvement. I didnt think it was 
fair to either party to have to wait indefinitely to get to the position Id originally envisaged, 
and decided it appeared in all parties best interests to issue a provisional decision, based on 
the information I currently had to hand  and applying fair and reasonable judgement in 
reaching outcomes where there was no information. This second claim had been ongoing for 
approaching three years, and both claims for about five years  thats five years with Ms S 
being out of her home.
I issued this on 2 December 2021, and whilst RSA accepted some of things Id said, Ms S 
rejected every element of the decision. Significant exchanges with both parties have since 
taken place, which I address in more detail below. But first, I repeat below the salient parts of 
my provisional decision. 
My provisional decision:
The nature of this claim, and the events and communications that have taken place, 
is such its not possible to deal with the issues in a strictly chronological way. Instead, 
Ive separated these and will address them individually  even though there is some 
overlap between them.
What happened shortly after the leak  and the collapsed ceiling
The sequence of events, in terms of notifying RSA of the leak, and their/their agents 
subsequent actions in the following weeks  including visits to Ms Ss home - are well 
known between the parties, so I wont repeat these here. But I will address whether, 
as is claimed by Ms S, RSA were negligent in what they did, or didnt do, in those 
initial weeks.
Its not in dispute RSAs agents attended in the days after the leak was reported. It 
was known the leak came from a burst pipe in the loft area, and clear that significant 
water damage had occurred. However, from what I can see, no attempt was made to 
access the loft area at this time to check on the damage that had occurred there. And 
Ms S discovered the ceiling had collapsed in her bedroom just under two weeks later.
Ms S thinks RSA were negligent by not checking the loft area when they first visited, 
and by not doing so, they missed an opportunity to identify the ceiling was saturated 
and at risk of collapse. RSA say there was no evidence of ceiling saturation when 
they visited. Clearly, I cant say what would have happened had the loft been accessed and checked when RSAs agents first visited the house. But I do think its 
clear an opportunity was lost to identify the extent of the damage that existed in the 
loft.
It was clear the house had experienced a significant leak coming from the loft area. 
And given the extent of water damage in the property, I think it seems more likely 
than not the loft area would have been particularly saturated  after all, it would have 
taken the initial force of the leak, and significant amounts of water would most 
probably have settled there. That being the case, Id have expected RSAs agents to 
have been alive to that fact and think it would have been reasonable for them to have 
checked the loft area as a priority.
But that doesnt mean I can safely conclude the collapse would have been prevented 
as I have no way of knowing that. But I do think given the size of the subsequent 
collapse  which most likely could only have been caused by a significant 
concentration of settled water in that area of the loft  it seems more likely than not it 
would have been identified as an area of risk/concern had it been inspected. And 
because it wasnt inspected, an opportunity to take precautionary measures  move 
items from the room or seal it off  was missed.
The next issue to address is the asbestos contamination. Ive no way of knowing 
whether the existence of asbestos would have been identified had the loft been 
inspected. This only became apparent to all parties after the collapse  in other 
words it hadnt been identified as a risk after the leak, or indeed at any time in the 
many years previously whilst Ms S was living there or in previous claims. That being 
so, I cant fairly conclude RSA would most likely have identified the existence of 
asbestos had they undertaken the loft inspection.
So, at this point, I think RSA were responsible for not checking the loft, and not taking 
appropriate steps to limit the damage that could have been caused by the damaged 
loft/ceiling collapsing  and no more.
But after the asbestos was identified, following the collapse, I think RSAs agents 
then made a number of fundamental mistakes in how they then dealt with the after-
effects of the collapse. I think the mistakes made here significantly contributed to the 
initial delays in the case  which I deal with later, and which played a part leading to 
the breakdown in the relationship between RSA and Ms S, and the claim delays that 
followed.
Ill deal with how this affected Ms S and her claim later in this decision, but now want 
to deal with the asbestos contamination issue.
Asbestos cross-contamination
The first mention of asbestos I can see on the file is in the first week of March 2019 - 
Ms S said that one of RSAs agents had told her asbestos might be in the ceiling. 
RSA instructed an asbestos contractor to assess the damage nearly two weeks later.
By this time, RSA were aware of the seriousness of Ms S various health conditions  
theyd been raised in the first claim, and were clearly mentioned again, multiple 
times, by her in a formal complaint letter to RSA at the beginning of March 2019. So, 
I think RSA should have been fully aware of the significantly heightened risk that 
asbestos exposure would have on Ms Ss health. And, having been made aware of 
the possible existence of asbestos, I think it should have taken reasonable steps to 
minimise that exposure or risk. But I dont think it did.RSA had instructed the asbestos contractor by the end of the second week of March 
and advised Ms S that theyre still waiting for the results a week later, following 
receipt of which Ms S was told I will be able to arrange for the ceiling to be 
removed.
In the meantime, RSAs general contractor advised Ms S their staff will attend in April 
to remove the damaged contents. But three days before this, RSA emailed Ms S to 
confirm that asbestos debris have been found and that it would:
instruct the specialist firm [who undertook the survey] to undertake the 
removal of the remainder of the ceiling, the debris and the contents that have 
been in contact
And
Prior to the removal, the rest of the contents will be attended to by [the 
general contractor]This will allow [the asbestos contractor] clear and safe 
access and avoid any potential for cross contamination.
I think this is an important statement, as it confirms RSA acknowledged the asbestos- 
damaged bedroom needed specialist attention. In other words, RSAs general 
contractor wasnt permitted or qualified to deal with asbestos-related materials  they 
were only to be instructed to deal with the remainder of the home.
However, the general contractor did attend a few days later as originally instructed 
and proceeded to remove/list all the items from the contaminated bedroom. Items 
were also moved to other rooms. In other words, items that were heavily asbestos-
contaminated were moved throughout Ms Ss property without any apparent care 
given to minimise cross- contamination, and in doing so contaminating other areas of 
Ms Ss property.
As Ive said, RSA were aware of the potential existence of asbestos some weeks 
beforehand, were clearly aware of Ms Ss health risks, knew that the property had 
tested positive for asbestos, and had admitted that the matter needed to be handled 
by their expert asbestos contractors. Notwithstanding this, RSA allowed their general 
contractor to undertake a full contents removal exercise  or at the very least failed to 
ensure this contractor only undertook limited defined tasks (as above). It soon 
became clear significant further contamination damage was caused to Ms Ss 
contents. And a recent assessment confirmed asbestos traces in most rooms too. 
Because of Ms Ss extreme health conditions, there now appears no option  
accepted by RSA - but to dispose of most of these contents.
This issue has, I believe, contributed significantly to Ms Ss extreme distress during 
the lifetime of this claim. It has meant many more of Ms Ss contents have needed to 
be destroyed than should have been necessary (more below on that), and it 
significantly contributed to the subsequent delays in this claim (again, more on this 
below). This element of distress was avoidable had RSA taken better steps as Ive 
indicated above.
Contents Claims
A significant proportion of Ms Ss contents have been damaged beyond repair. There 
was the initial water leak, and further damage caused by the asbestos cross 
contamination. This has meant that I began by considering elements of the contents 
claim differently.Ms Ss policy provides new for old cover, however for clothing a deduction may be 
made for wear and tear. The policy doesnt define clothing or what the levels of 
deduction are.
In the early weeks of the claim, RSA removed a large quantity of water-damaged 
items, the BER items and those for restoration. There were many exchanges 
between Ms S and RSA regarding these items. However, no contents-settlement 
payments had been made to Ms S by the time I got involved in this case, not least 
because the initial settlement suggested by RSA didnt include new for old values, 
and significantly undervalued some of Ms Ss items.
Since my involvement, the BER and restoration items  removed from the house at 
the beginning  have been revalued. Ms S was invited to propose values for every 
item on the various lists that RSAs agents had compiled. These were then passed to 
RSA for validation.
The BER list
RSA accepted Ms Ss suggested valuations for many of the items on this list, and 
provided alternative prices, with internet links to specific similar products for some 
others. And RSA applied a 50% wear and tear (W&T) deduction to all the clothing 
items on each list. Theyve also applied a 50% reduction on some hair care and 
make-up products and perfumes.
Ms S thinks the wear and tear deduction is too big and undervalues her clothing. She 
doesnt think the deduction should apply to shoes, or the other items mentioned 
above. And she thinks some of the retailers RSA have referred to, when reducing 
their valuation of some of her items, were of an inferior quality to the shops she 
purchased her items from.
Ive already explained to Ms S that I think a 50% reduction is a fair one in principle in 
that it fairly recognises her clothing has built up over many years, and some items will 
have experienced greater W&T over time than others. And Ive explained that I 
consider footwear to be an extension of clothing  I consider clothing to generally 
refer to items worn, and shoes/boots are items that are clearly worn on the feet. As 
such, I think any W&T deduction for footwear is fair and in line with what Ms Ss 
policy allows.
And I explained that the retailers RSA has used when valuing her items were 
established high-street names, and so seemed to provide fair comparison values. 
That said, I explained that it was open for Ms S to provide evidence to counter what 
RSA had said  evidence that a significant proportion of her clothing was new, or 
evidence to show shed purchased some household items from more expensive 
retailers than what RSA had referred to for instance.
This request has only been made recently, and Ms S hasnt substantively responded 
yet. And by me now deciding to issue a provisional decision based on the information 
I have, it effectively limits Ms Ss opportunity to undertake the necessary enquiries to 
enable her to provide evidence to support a higher valuation of her BER contents. 
And I cant discount the fact she may be able to do this  including after this 
provisional decision is issued.
So, in the absence of any such evidence, but conscious that I may be limiting Ms Ss 
ability to provide this, I think the fair outcome here is to reduce the W&T deduction to 40%. I also think the W&T deduction applied to the hair, cosmetics and perfume 
items should be removed. The W&T deduction applies to clothing only  which these 
are clearly not.
Ms S initially valued the BER list at £38,435. RSAs validation exercise resulted in a 
valuation of £24,071. The amendments Ive mentioned above increase the value of 
the BER items to £25,150. So this is the amount I think fairly represents the value of 
the items listed, and is the amount I think RSA must pay to Ms S.
The restoration list
Similar to the above, Ms S was provided with a list of the items that had been 
removed for restoration. Its now been accepted by RSA that, due to asbestos 
contamination, these items should also now be classed as BER. Ms S valued the list 
at £23,060.
Ms S thinks these shouldnt be subject to a W&T deduction, because many of them 
are asbestos-damaged. I disagree. These items were removed at the same time as 
the BER list - at the time primarily because theyd been damaged by the leak and 
collapse. They had been damaged as a result of a claim event, and as such should 
be dealt with as such - meaning the W&T deduction can be fairly applied. This differs 
from the items in Ms Ss home that subsequently became damaged beyond repair as 
a direct result of the actions of RSAs agents  which I deal with below.
RSA validated the items, and again sought to discount some of these, including 
clothing at 50% W&T. RSA has also applied a 50% clothing W&T deduction against 
various bags and a suitcase, and has again re-valued some household items based 
on retailer values. RSAs re- valued amount is £16,873. Ms S has only very recently 
had sight of this revaluation as it has only very recently been received, so has not yet 
had the opportunity to reply.
I dont agree that bags or a suitcase should be classed as clothing  they are clearly 
not items of clothing, and so the 50% W&T deduction needs to be removed. The 
policy doesnt contain anything else that says accessories should be subject to a 
W&T deduction.
And, for the same reasons as Ive mentioned for the BER items, I think a 40% W&T 
deduction is appropriate. Applying these changes increases the value of the items to
£18,145  an amount I think fairly represents the value of the items listed, and is the 
amount I think RSA must pay to Ms S.
Items removed and unaccounted for
Ms S has repeatedly stated, from the early days of this claim, that RSAs agents lost 
certain items, made listing mistakes, and even stole some items when they removed 
items from her home in 2019. She has provided many photographs of items (taken 
before the leak) that she believes havent been accounted for. On the other hand, 
RSA have made enquiries with their agents who have confirmed that every item they 
removed from Ms Ss house was included in either the BER or restoration lists.
I fully appreciate the strength of Ms Ss feelings here. And I think, having read the 
various exchanges from the time, the contents removal exercise was chaotic in 
places. And I think its entirely possible, in the confusion that existed at the time, 
some items were removed (and destroyed as BER) that werent  unintentionally - properly listed. Ive seen no evidence of any theft  and I make no further comment 
on that allegation.
I had intended to address the issue of unaccounted for items after the house had 
been reassessed and remaining asbestos/damaged items listed and disposed of. In 
other words, after an up-to-date inventory had effectively been undertaken  which 
had the potential to uncover items that Ms S believed had been lost. By issuing this 
provisional decision now, that opportunity has been lost. Ill deal with this matter 
further below.
Items remaining, unlisted, in the house
Ms Ss house still contains a considerable amount of contents that havent been 
listed, and which are damaged and BER. Its been accepted by RSA in exchanges 
that anything remaining in the house that is either clothing, or material based (soft 
furnishings, furniture items) should be disposed of. As most rooms are confirmed to 
be asbestos-contaminated, these items will be beyond repair.
The problem is that, by now issuing a provisional decision, this will prevent a listing 
exercise taking place. So, I need to make a fair and reasonable assessment of what I 
think the value of the remaining items is. Fortunately, Ive seen photos of most rooms 
in the house, taken recently by RSAs asbestos contractor, and others from Ms S 
earlier in the claim. So, I can see there remains a considerable quantity of contents 
that will likely need to be disposed of. And to these material items, Id also add any 
remaining electrical items too  I think they are more likely than not to contain 
asbestos traces, and so are likely beyond repair too.
Taking into consideration the quality of many of the items already recorded on the 
2019 lists, and the apparent quantity of remaining items from the photos  and 
including an allowance for any items that were mislaid (as mentioned above) during 
the 2019 exercise - I think a fair and reasonable estimate for these items in total is 
£25,000.
And as I wouldnt have applied any W&T deduction to any clothing/material element 
of this part of the claim  the items remaining in the house have all been asbestos-
contaminated through what Ive already said were the actions of RSAs agents, so 
the policy-allowed deduction wouldnt apply  no deduction of this amount needs to 
be considered here.
Ms Ss house also contains various hard-material items  pictures and furniture that 
may be capable of cleaning and restoring. I appreciate Ms S believes, due to the 
passage of time and extent of asbestos contamination, nothing can now be saved 
within her home. But if any items are capable of being safely cleaned  to the extent 
they could be tested and confirmed as being asbestos-free  this is all that RSA 
would have needed to do when settling this claim. And I cant discount this option 
would have been a possibility had the updated assessments taken place. So, I think 
its fair to also make an award that covers the likely cost of an appropriate asbestos 
deep clean in relation to some of the furniture items remaining  and I think this 
amount should be £2,000.
So, to summarise, I think RSA should pay Ms S the further sum of £50,295 (£25,150 
+ £18,145 + £25,000 + £2,000 less the £20,000 contents part payment already paid) 
in full settlement of Ms Ss contents claim. Interest at 8% simple must be added to all 
elements of this settlement (except the £2,000 cleaning allowance), calculated from 
the date of the claim to the date of payment.Alternative Accommodation
Ms S was already living in alternative accommodation when this second leak 
occurred  shed been there for close to two years by this point, following the first 
leak. However, Ms S hasnt provided any evidence of any rental agreement for her to 
reside there, any evidence of any regular payments to a landlord during this second 
claim period - aside from one £5,000 bank transfer - or any communications between 
the landlord and her regarding her living arrangements. As such, aside from initial 
hotel and a few isolated payments at the beginning of the first claim, Ms S hadnt 
been paid anything by RSA for her accommodation for over four years.
As part of this claim, Ms S said that shed been verbally promised a daily subsistence 
fee in lieu of rent  which is something her policy doesnt provide for. And there is no 
evidence of this in any of the exchanges Ive seen on the file. However, Id made it 
clear to RSA that I felt it was unfair that Ms S had been left to source and pay for her 
own accommodation for over two years, with no discernible effort having been made 
by RSA to provide any financial assistance despite her policy clearly allowing for her 
to receive accommodation assistance.
Ive since had many exchanges with RSA and Ms S  relating to the type of 
accommodation shed like, to the negative health impacts the issue was having on 
her. I dont need to repeat these here. It has now recently been agreed (Oct 21) RSA 
would pay for Ms S to move to a hotel of her choice, for the next six months, with a 
further three months to be considered, which RSA would pay for directly. And RSA 
have already paid six-months of daily subsistence to Ms S in advance, as mentioned 
above.
This was arranged and agreed on the basis the full reassessment of Ms Ss home 
would take place and was calculated based on it taking about three months for the 
reassessment and tendering process, and a further six months for the work to be 
carried out. By issuing this provisional decision now, that process wont happen. 
However, the work that would have taken place  clearing the house of asbestos 
contents, a new scope of works, obtaining quotes, and then the repairs  will still 
need to be undertaken. So, I think the timeframe for these actions is unlikely to differ 
greatly from the nine months Id originally suggested.
And because paying for Ms Ss accommodation whilst her home remains 
uninhabitable following the leak - and factoring in some of the damage was caused 
by RSA contractor negligence - is something her policy provides for, I think RSA 
should continue to pay Ms Ss hotel accommodation, and daily subsistence, for the 
full nine-month period. This is at least the length of time it would likely have taken to 
get to the position of Ms Ss home being fully repaired had the claim processed 
smoothly from the time of the claim event. So, I think its fair and reasonable that 
accommodation expenses for this length of time is paid now. So Ill be asking RSA to 
pay Ms Ss hotel accommodation costs, in full and in advance, up to 23 July 2022. 
RSA have already paid Ms S £4,574 as six-months advance subsistence, and so I 
think must now pay her the remaining three-month subsistence - £2,238.
Im also asking RSA to reimburse Ms S the £5,000 mentioned above. Whilst there is 
no evidence this was in lieu of rent, Im prepared to accept its likely connected to a 
payment for Ms Ss right to live at the property  its the only payment Ive seen 
covering this claim period. But, because Ms S has been unable or unwilling to 
provide any other evidence covering this period, I wont be asking RSA to pay Ms S 
any other rent expense.Other day to day bills/items Utility bills
Ms S has provided some copy utility bills to evidence the amounts shes been paying 
in her temporary accommodation. But, these arent complete up to the time she left 
for her hotel accommodation. This means Im unable to calculate precisely what extra 
costs she incurred in her rental period that RSA needs to reimburse her for.
So, what I intend to do here is use the figures that formed the basis of the award in 
the first claim. In this, the ombudsman saw evidence (as have I, having reviewed the 
file) and calculated that Ms S has incurred the following extra amounts  Gas £10 per 
month (pm), Electricity £136pm, and Water £39pm (£185pm in total). So, whilst utility 
prices have changed during this time, the difference between what Ms S originally 
paid in her property compared to what she paid in her rented accommodation would 
more likely than not be similar to before.
In the first claim, Ms S was paid these amounts up until the end of July 2019, which 
means I only need to consider the period between August 2019 and 23 October 
2021, the date she moved into the hotel. This is a period of 27 months. So, Ill be 
asking RSA to pay Ms S £4,995 (£185 x 27) for the excess utilities she has incurred.
Service charge
Evidence was provided in the first claim Ms S paid this on a monthly basis, and Ms S 
was awarded this sum. In this case, I havent seen any evidence that Ms S has 
continued to pay this sum, although she has confirmed in exchanges with me that 
she did pay it. So, I intend to award Ms S a sum to cover this expense, but this is 
dependent on her providing evidence of her continuing to have made the payments 
up to the time she left the property. But if Ms S doesnt provide any such evidence, I 
wont be awarding this sum.
Council Tax
I understand council tax (CT) remains payable at Ms Ss property  at an enhanced 
rate due to it having been empty for so long, in addition to Ms S being liable for CT at 
her rented property. The amount Ms S has paid, above the usual CT liability that 
she would have paid at her home, is an additional cost covered by her policy. But I 
need Ms S to provide evidence of how much she has been paying for both 
properties, and I will then calculate and award that sum in my final decision. This will 
include an amount covering the excess over what she would have paid during the 
next nine months too.
Fuel
Ms Ss rental property, and now the hotel she is staying at, is some miles from her 
own property. So, its likely therell be/have been some extra fuel costs incurred 
above what Ms S would have incurred had she been living in her property. I think 
£30pm is a fair award to cover this extra expense, which Ill award up to the end of 
the nine-month repair period. So, I intend to award Ms S £1,080 for extra fuel costs 
(£30 x 36(27+9) months).
Laundry
A sum of £10 per week (pw) was awarded in the first claim to cover laundry 
expenses (Ms S had advised there was no washing machine at the rental property). In this claim, shes asked to be paid more  closer to £30pw given the need to use 
separate washes and extra dry cleaning. I think £30pw (or nearly £125 pm) is too 
much for laundry, but will instead award £10pw as before, which I think fairly covers 
the likely laundry costs Ms S would have incurred. Dry cleaning of items would likely 
have been paid regardless of whether Ms S was living at her property or in rented 
accommodation. So that means Ill be asking RSA to pay Ms S £1,550 for laundry 
costs - £155 at £10pw.
Damage to Ms Ss garden
Ms S was awarded £800 for repairs to the fence and garden in the first claim. Ms S 
says the garden has continued to deteriorate, and shes concerned that her 
neighbours gardens may now be affected  as her garden now may encourage 
infestations, and the structural damage to her fences may impact on their properties.
No work has been done on the garden since the first claim settlement, not least 
because of access restrictions caused by damaged (and likely asbestos-
contaminated) contents blocking entry. So Ive no doubt the condition of the garden 
has likely deteriorated during this second claim period.
But Ms S has already been paid to repair her garden and fences  and this is 
essentially all that still remains to be done here, notwithstanding the condition of the 
garden may have worsened. Accordingly, I wont be awarding Ms S any further 
garden repair costs.
The buildings claim
This is the most difficult part of this claim to deal with here. The facts available 
havent moved on since RSAs assessment of the property in 2019 that informed 
their settlement offer. This offer, and the rationale behind it, was rejected by Ms S.
It was initially intended, by both parties, that RSA would carry out the repairs caused 
by this second leak, and discussions eventually proceeded on this basis. But RSA 
concluded it was impossible to separate, in many cases, damage caused by the first 
leak from damage caused by the second one  in many cases the second leak had 
re-damaged already affected areas of the property. And the cost of the repairs for 
this initial damage - £56,466 - had already been paid to Ms S as part of the first claim 
settlement.
RSA concluded the only way to proceed was to cost the complete repair and 
undertake the work on that basis. RSA say they used established rates to cost the 
(total) work, and that initially resulted in a smaller total cost than had already been 
paid to Ms S in the first claim  where the scope of works was obviously less. 
However, after altering certain costs (plumbing and electrics) to include what Ms Ss 
chosen contractor had quoted in the first claim, and including amounts for drying and 
asbestos removal costs, and surveyor fees to manage the repairs, the total cost was 
increased to £69,279  an increase of £12,813 over what Ms S had been paid in the 
first claim. This included the amounts necessary to replace the damaged ceilings and 
deal with the remaining asbestos issues.
RSA said theyd undertake the whole repairs, but asked Ms S to repay the £56k 
shed already been paid. Ms S refused, as she believed the first payment was paid  
under a legally binding ombudsman decision - specifically for first-claim damage, and 
so RSA had no right to ask for its return. It was at this point Ms S immediately broke 
off all contact with RSA.I can understand why RSA thought this was a pragmatic way to proceed, especially 
as it was offering to undertake all of the repair work from that point on. Having read 
the exchanges at the time, I think it was a genuine attempt to find a way forward that 
was in Ms Ss best interests  albeit one Ms S was entitled to refuse as shed been 
paid the first-claim sum as a final settlement in that claim. But I think it does reinforce 
how unlikely it was that the second claim damage could somehow be separated from 
the first  both in terms of separating the work, and the separate cost of it.
Which brings me to now. In the absence of substantive progress in Ms Ss attempts 
to source a surveyor, to kick-start the re-assessment process, I must start my 
calculations of what RSA must pay now by referring to parts of the 2019 settlement 
number  the only meaningful numbers available. But they are just a start.
I want to first make clear the sum Ms S was paid in the first settlement was after a full 
tender process using Ms Ss own suggested contractors. And the ombudsman 
explained why he thought the amounts quoted were reasonable and ordered 
payment of that sum. So, that sum is notionally ring-fenced for the first-claim work.
As Ive already said, its impossible to separate second from first claim damage 
(ceiling damage aside), so the best I can reasonably do here is estimate what I feel is 
a fair sum that will cover the increase in damage caused by the second leak. In 
attempting this, I can be guided by some of the figures in RSAs 2019 assessment.
Its clear the property hadnt been completely dried out at the time, and further 
professional drying was needed. Whilst it may have dried naturally by now, I still think 
a professional drying process will be needed. Drying was costed at £1,000 in the 
2019 assessment. Given the passage of time, Im inclined to increase this sum to 
£1,250 here.
The property will also need professional asbestos removal, which RSA allowed 
£1,675 for. However, given the involvement of an asbestos expert is likely going to 
be much greater now than anticipated in 2019, this amount will need to increase.
Firstly, the property will now need to be securely cleared of all the asbestos-
contaminated contents, which given the quantity of items still in the house will take 
time. And these will need securely destroying too. Finally, the property will need to be 
subject to a full asbestos deep clean or decontamination process. This is a lot of 
specialist work, and so Im inclined to increase this element of the award to £5,000.
I now need to consider the cost of the extra building repair costs. This includes the 
cost of a full ceiling removal/disposal and replacement  likely using asbestos expert 
contractors. I havent seen the breakdown of RSAs ceiling replacement costs, so Ive 
checked trade websites to find out average costs for this type of job. I think an 
asbestos removal survey will be needed and based on internet research Ill award 
£250 for this. For the actual removal, Ive seen it should cost an average of £50 per 
m2 in the UK. Ill increase this to £65 per m2 here given the location of the property.
I dont know how big Ms Ss home is but am aware its an average sized 3-bedroom 
property, so I will calculate the cost based on the upstairs floor area being 50 m2. 
This being the case, I intend to award £3,250 (50 x £65) to cover the cost of the 
ceiling replacement.
This leaves the remaining water-related damage to be costed. Here, in the absence 
of an updated schedule of works, I can only provide what I think is a fair and 
reasonable estimate. So, taking into consideration the likelihood that the fabric of the 
property has suffered due to the passage of time, Im going to award £18,000 here for the remainder of the work needed. I appreciate Ms S may think this wont be 
sufficient. However, I must factor in that a significant proportion of the second claim 
damage wasnt new damage  the leak re- damaged many areas that had been 
damaged previously, and for which repair costs had been included and paid in the 
first settlement.
However, I also accept that some areas suffered greater damage in the second claim 
than had been experienced in the first claim, and so there would be a notional extra 
cost attached to any new repair undertaken for these. And in these specific 
circumstances, it would have been correct to deduct what had been paid in the first 
claim for these repairs from the cost of the new repairs. And there will be some new 
areas of water damage too that would need to be paid for in full in this settlement.
So, taking all the above into consideration, I think £18,000 provides a fair estimate of 
the likely extra repair cost. This means Ms S will have been paid a total of £74,466 to 
cover the cost of repairing the internal damage to her home (with the ceiling cost in 
addition to this). And as agreed in exchanges with RSA, Im also going to award a 
sum to cover the cost of Ms S employing her own surveyor to manage the whole 
repair process. The total repair cost is £77,966 (£56,466 from the first claim, plus 
£18,000, £3,250 and £250 as above). A surveyor would usually cost 12.5% of a 
contract, so Ill award £9,746 (12.5% of £77,966).
Distress and Inconvenience
I know Ms S has experienced severe emotional and mental distress throughout this 
claim period, and Im truly sorry that shes experienced this. She strongly believes 
this is all attributable to the way RSA have dealt with her  the delays theyve 
caused, the negligence of their agents, their refusal to answer her questions, and 
refusal to accept responsibility for the claim. She remains adamant that every delay 
in the process is essentially RSAs fault.
I agree with some of the things shes said. As Ive already discussed, I think RSAs 
agents acted negligently in how they dealt with the contents listing/disposal. I think 
this fractured an already strained relationship between RSA and Ms S, as she lost 
trust in the ability of RSA and its agents to act safely and appropriately. The 
asbestos issue created extra avoidable delays in the claim process, and I dont think 
these were of Ms Ss making. And more of her possessions were destroyed than 
should have happened.
And I dont agree with some of the suggestions RSA said at the beginning of the 
claim that Ms S wasnt making herself available for meetings, and by doing so was 
frustrating the progress of her claim. Whilst exchanges between RSA and Ms S were 
challenging, even in the weeks immediately after the leak, Ive seen enough of them 
to satisfy myself that Ms S was making sufficient efforts to make herself available.
Ive also seen some exchanges concerning the return of drying equipment that 
caused Ms S considerable upset. The issue went on for many months, admittedly not 
helped by a degree of intransigence on both sides  Ms S demanding answers 
relating to the quantity of dryers on her property before agreeing to allow access for 
their collection, and RSAs agent appearing to simply ignore the request. It 
culminated in RSAs agents submitting an invoice and demanding Ms S pay them 
£75,000 for the units in her possession. Aggressive legal threat letters  suggesting 
theft charges would be laid - followed.It was known Ms Ss emotional and mental health was suffering by this point, and 
conscious of that the way RSAs agent communicated with Ms S on this subject was 
unnecessarily aggressive and threatening. I fully accept it caused her great and 
avoidable distress.
I also think it unfair Ms S received no payment whatsoever from RSA in relation to 
this claim until my involvement over two years later (the £20,000 contents payment), 
or even made any meaningful effort to engage with her on this subject. RSA was 
aware of the terms of the first ombudsman award and what payments it covered, 
and also that Ms Ss living arrangements (and financial obligations) remained the 
same in this second claim  and so should have known what expenses she was 
incurring that her policy allowed her to be repaid for. Instead, Ms S was left to fund 
these expenses without assistance, which I accept caused her some distress and 
hardship.
But I do think some of the delays that hampered this claim were caused by Ms S as 
well. In particular, I think her decision to cut all ties with RSA, after theyd suggested 
she consider repaying the first claim settlement funds as part of their offer to 
undertake all of the repairs, was counter-productive. I understand she thought RSA 
were trying to by-pass the first ombudsmans decision, but it meant any possibility the 
repairs could continue at that time disappeared. So, I dont hold RSA responsible for 
all of the subsequent claim delays that occurred after this point.
So, in summary, I think there were many instances, particularly in the first 12 months 
of the claim  and given what RSA knew about Ms Ss conditions - where RSAs 
treatment of Ms S fell below a standard Id expect. And Ms S experienced significant 
and avoidable distress as a result. Placing a monetary figure on distress is not an 
exact science, and this service doesnt punish businesses where we think theyve 
caused distress.
However, taking all of the above into consideration, I think the sum of £3,000 fairly 
reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Ms S has experienced, and I think 
RSA should pay that to Ms S
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties provided detailed comments for me to consider following receipt of my 
provisional decision, with Ms S response spanning many hundreds of pages. And she has 
since provided significant quantities of further information, with photos, for me to consider. 
RSA have also provided comments. Ill reference these below as necessary. Ill address the 
key issues in the same order as in the provisional decision.  
Id like to thank both parties for the time taken in providing their responses. I can assure both 
parties Ive read and carefully considered everything Ive been provided with, but I wont be 
responding here to every point raised  that would be impractical in the circumstances. No 
discourtesy to either party is intended by this. Instead, I will be concentrating on what I 
believe are the key points that require my consideration so I can reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome here where RSA  within the scope of what Ms S policy covers  pays Ms S 
sufficient to allow the damage caused by her second leak to be repaired, her damaged 
contents replaced or repaired, and other expenses paid as necessary.  
  When reaching my provisional conclusions, and similarly now in this final decision, Ive 
wanted to bring finality for both parties  so they can walk away from each other, once and 
for all. But I need to be satisfied the amounts Im awarding  particularly for building repairs 
and contents valuation  are correctly valued. In respect of the building repairs, that means 
enough for Ms S to engage her own contractors to repair her home and return it to the 
condition it was in prior to the leak. And, conscious Ms Ss policy provides new for old 
contents cover, to provide a sufficient payment  policy limits and conditions permitting  to 
allow her contents to be replaced (or repaired if their condition allows). 
Ms S was particularly aggrieved Id departed from my intended route map and Im sorry this 
caused her such distress. She initially remained adamant I should reinstate this and restart 
the two key tasks she believed are claim critical  the instruction of independent surveyors 
to prepare an updated and fully costed schedule of works, and a full contents disposal and 
revaluation exercise. Ms S was very concerned that, without these, it would be impossible to 
accurately identify what works were now needed to her home, and value her contents. 
She strongly believed Id significantly undervalued her contents and building repair costs. 
Whilst it was known bedrooms two and three in her home contained many items of clothing, 
and other contents, the potential value of these was only mentioned in post-provisional 
decision correspondence - Ms S advising these bedrooms contained many hundreds of 
items of higher-value clothing, including designer and bespoke items. She said the 
remaining value of her wardrobe contents was close to £50,000 alone, and there was further 
mention of total remaining contents in the home (discounting the items removed in 2019 and 
mentioned in the provisional decision) possibly being worth more than £100,000. 
Of course, these statements were made without a detailed listing exercise having taken 
place and were based on Ms S recollection of the remaining items in her home. And I must 
recognise they were variously made at a time of significant distress for Ms S, particularly in 
terms of her mental, physical and emotional health. 
But, if true, they created a potential for Ms S to have under-insured her contents, or put 
another way, to have failed to alert RSA that the value of her contents were greater than 
what shed declared on her policy. RSA wanted a better understanding of the contents value, 
which as the insurer is something they are entitled to insist on - prompting a review of the 
contents settlement sum, and the level of cover Ms S policy provided. Both issues resulted 
in multiple exchanges with both Ms S and RSA given their importance, and the potential 
effect they could have on how this complaint (and claim) is progressed. So, Ill comment on 
those issues now before addressing the complaint in detail. 
Ms S policy limits her contents cover to £100,000. She said this figure is irrelevant in the 
context of this claim. She said this was the default maximum level of cover available when 
she took out, and then renewed the policy (this is correct). And a distinction should be drawn 
between the value of her contents damaged as a result of the leak event, and those contents 
damaged by the actions of RSAs agents  and the £100,000 limit applied only to the former.
RSA referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). They commented Ms S may have been under-insured, which depending on the 
circumstances of what shed said to RSA when taking out (and renewing) her policy, could 
mean RSA had a legal right to cancel the policy, or settle her claim on a pro-rata basis. 
So, Ms S was asked to clarify her comments on the value of her contents. She advised that, 
in December 2016 when she took out the policy, she believed the total value would have 
been no more than £100,000  possibly close to, but not more than that sum. She is unable 
to provide evidence to prove that, which I think is understandable given the passage of time. 
Ms S contents werent made up of high-value single items, such as jewellery or artworks (where receipts and prior valuations may be expected), but instead multiple items purchased 
over time where receipts are unlikely to have survived a six year period.
On that basis, coupled with the fact it would be difficult to prove the value of her contents 
werent less than or equal to £100,000 in 2016, Im persuaded by Ms S testimony  her 
contents were probably worth no more than £100,000 in 2016. So, as at that date, I believe 
shed most likely insured her contents for at least the correct sum and wasnt under-insured 
then. RSA have now implied they accept this too.
After the first leak/claim in 2017, some of these contents were destroyed. Ms S received 
about £24,000 in settlement. Accordingly, her remaining contents would have been worth 
no more than £76,000 immediately after the first claim. 
Ms S was asked if shed replaced any of these items, conscious she didnt receive 
settlement until the beginning of 2019, some two years after the leak, and hadnt been 
residing in her home throughout the whole period. She advised she had, between both 
claims, been using her own funds to purchase various new items  clothes, ornaments, and 
some replacement small electricals. Shed stored some in her home, in anticipation of being 
able to undertake the first-claim repairs and move back in  the place shed been renting 
was smaller than her home, and she wanted to keep as many items in her home as possible. 
The items purchased werent individually of excessive value, and receipts werent kept. Also, 
shed rotate clothes between her home and the rented address. Ms S was keen to stress 
that, up until the second claim (when she became aware of the asbestos issue), she had no 
reason to avoid visiting her home, even though she couldnt live there. And no reason to 
think storing some newly purchased items, in anticipation of returning, was a risky idea.
I asked Ms S how much shed spent on new items in the period between both claims. She 
wasnt sure exactly but thought shed have spent quite a few thousand pounds - she 
explained she was accustomed to regularly spending on clothes and contents. Ive no 
reason to doubt the honesty or accuracy of that statement. Im persuaded that Ms S had 
likely spent thousands of pounds on various new contents items. 
Which brings me to the issue of contents value at the time of the second leak. Because of 
what Ms S had said about potential current values, RSA now wished to list and value the 
items remaining in Ms Ss home and considered reserving their rights in relation to her claim. 
They also expressed concerns about the condition of the remaining contents, and in 
particular the clothes remaining in bedrooms two and three. RSA questioned if these were 
asbestos damaged, suggesting theyd remained secure in closed wardrobes and drawers. 
RSA initially said they wanted to test these for asbestos, but realised this was impractical. 
And I told RSA it remained my view, for the reasons stated in my provisional decision, that 
all material items in the house were more likely than not asbestos contaminated. 
Exchanges then took place to identify practical arrangements for listing and valuation of the 
remaining contents. RSA suggested instructing asbestos experts to attend, but they werent 
valuation experts. And RSA had concerns about asking a valuation expert to attend a 
contaminated site. I asked RSA to explain how theyd overcome these conflicting 
considerations, but theyve been unable to suggest any workable solution. So, the potential 
issue of valuation and under-insurance remained. 
To try and address this, I asked Ms S to clarify some of the statements shed made 
regarding valuations. She confirmed that some of her recent statements mentioned what she 
felt current 2022 valuations were, rather than the values when she renewed her policy in 
2018. Ms S referred to recent world events having caused significant increases in the costs 
of various items, and given her policy provided new for old cover, was referencing what she felt were the current costs. She said, echoing points shed made regularly, she felt many of 
her contents items now cost two or three times what theyd have cost in 2018. 
Whilst I dont agree clothing/furniture/small electricals have increased by those levels in the 
past four years, and Ms S hasnt provided any detailed evidenced comparisons to support 
her statement, Im satisfied her honestly-held opinion would have helped form those 
enhanced contents valuations. And Ms S has since reconsidered and confirmed that, taking 
into account the above, her total contents would have been worth no more than £100,000  
either before the first claim in 2017 or the second (this) one in January 2019. 
So, considering all of the above, Im satisfied Ms S was unlikely to have been under-insured 
when she renewed her policy, and accordingly that the value of her contents were most 
likely worth no more than £100,000 at that time of the second claim.
But that doesnt mean I can reasonably conclude her contents were valued at £100,000 as 
at the date of the second claim. And having considered recent exchanges on this subject, I 
think they were most likely worth slightly less than that. Ill explain. 
Ms S accepted her contents were valued at about £100,000 in December 2016, and she lost 
£24,000-worth of these. As I said above, it follows her remaining contents were worth about 
£76,000. This is a new for old policy, so by the time of the second claim (or more precisely 
the renewal immediately prior to the second claim in December 2018) the replacement value 
of these remaining items would have likely increased. Allowing for inflation between the two 
claims of approximately 2.5% per year, this would result in the value of those remaining 
contents being about £80,000 when her policy renewed in December 2018. 
I think Ms S would have moved some of her personal items, and a reasonable quantity of  
clothing, into her rental property shortly after the first claim  after all this is where she lived 
for approaching two years before this second claim. Notionally, this would have reduced the 
quantity and value of contents still in her house when the second leak occurred. But I also 
accept some new items were purchased and stored in the property. This includes new 
clothes purchased, and clothing generally being rotated to account for different seasons.
   
Ms S said she purchased items that would have increased the value to £100,000, but she 
hasnt been able to evidence these purchases. And whilst I believe she made these 
purchases I cant fairly conclude she made as much as £20,000 worth of contents purchases 
in the two-year period without some evidence to support this. 
But for the purposes of this decision, I do need to settle on a figure of what I think Ms S 
contents were worth at the date of the second claim  to help frame how I approach the 
calculation of the value of her contents losses in this complaint. I accept this isnt an ideal 
approach, and the calculation of the value of items purchased between both claims is 
arbitrary. However, its one that is necessary to allow this claim/complaint to be brought to a 
conclusion in a timely manner. 
So, its my conclusion Ms S increased the value of her contents as at the date of the second 
claim to £90,000 (so, an increase of £10,000, equating to an average monthly spend on new 
contents of about £400). 
So, to be clear, I think Ms S was most likely appropriately insured as at the date of the 
second claim. And that, notwithstanding RSAs wish that they list and value the remaining 
contents in Ms S home, I havent been presented with a practical solution that would allow 
that to happen. And I think a reasonable conclusion is that Ms S contents were valued at 
£90,000 when the second leak occurred. That all being so, Ill now proceed with addressing 
the merits of Ms Ss complaint, and both parties response to my provisional decision. The events after the leak, and subsequent collapsed ceiling/asbestos contamination
RSA have raised a number of matters relating to the chronology of events they feel are 
material to my consideration of this complaint. These focus on the exchanges between Ms S 
and RSAs agents in the weeks after the leak. In particular RSA says the main bedroom 
ceiling was checked and showed excessive moisture levels (along with the walls). But it 
didnt show any evidence of movement or cracking that indicated it was at risk of collapse. 
RSA confirmed the loft area wasnt checked until after the ceiling had collapsed, but also say 
the loft area, upon inspection (after the collapse), showed the beams and insulation were 
dry. Photos have been provided that appear to confirm this. I note what RSA appears to be 
implying (although not expressly stating) here  that even had the loft been inspected (pre-
collapse), there was nothing to suggest the collapse was imminent. 
However, by its own admission RSA noted the ceiling contained excessive moisture, and I 
still think  in these circumstances where the severity of the leak was evident from the outset 
 RSA should have checked the loft area. I appreciate theres no way of knowing whether 
such an inspection would have alerted RSA to the risk of ceiling collapse, especially given 
the dry insulation. But the lack of inspection meant RSAs experienced contractors didnt 
conduct an immediate assessment of the area where the leak occurred. 
I remain persuaded its more likely than not RSAs contracting experts would have identified 
at the very least a heightened risk of collapse had they done so. But I still cant safely 
conclude the collapse would have been prevented.
The next issue to address is the asbestos contamination. Ive no way of knowing whether the 
existence of asbestos would have been identified had the loft been inspected. This only 
became apparent to all parties after the collapse  in other words it hadnt been identified as 
a risk after the leak. That being so, I cant fairly conclude RSA would most likely have 
identified the existence of asbestos had they undertaken the loft inspection.
So, at this point, I still think RSA were responsible for not checking the loft, and not taking 
appropriate steps to limit the damage that could have been caused by the damaged 
loft/ceiling collapsing  and no more.
Delays in the initial progress of this claim
I now want to address a key theme that has existed throughout the claim  who is 
responsible for the delays that have occurred in its progress. Both parties hold each other 
responsible  Ms S doesnt believe shes responsible for any delays, whereas RSA do 
accept some things could have been done differently, particularly regarding early 
communications and the asbestos contamination matter. 
The issue is important because of the length of time this claim has taken, and the financial 
ramifications it has in terms of what I think RSA must pay Ms S. Ive considered what both 
parties have said, both before and after my provisional decision, and I remain of the view 
that both parties have contributed to the delays. 
Ive already said that RSAs agents actions in causing asbestos cross contamination caused 
significant delays. I think its highly likely, were it not for their actions, this claim/complaint 
would have concluded significantly earlier. Relations between RSA and Ms S were already 
strained before that point following the first claim. This, together with how the content and 
removal exercise was conducted by RSAs agents only made matters much worse, and 
played a key role in Ms S unilaterally choosing to cease contact with RSA in October 2019, and insisting that all communications moving forward were via this office. But that decision, 
too, had a significant effect on the delays. 
Its important to recognise Ms S (or any policyholder) is required to provide whatever 
reasonable assistance RSA deemed necessary to assist in the progress of her claim. This is 
one of the terms and conditions of Ms S policy  its a fundamental part of any insurance 
policy. Whist I appreciate Ms S had lost faith in RSA, that doesnt mean she became entitled 
to ignore this policy requirement. Instead, Ms S insisted all further communications were 
through our investigator. This created extra delays that werent the fault of RSA.
And I should add here the ombudsman service is set up to informally and impartially resolve 
disputes. Its not to act as a claims handler or claims representative for a consumer, which is 
what Ms S was in essence asking our investigator  and later myself, to do. I have no doubt 
that Ms Ss actions in ceasing contact with RSA, however justified she felt them to be, had a 
material impact on the length of this claim. 
The difficult question is in apportioning how much of the delays are a result of each partys 
actions. This is an important exercise because RSA are required to reimburse Ms S for 
certain expenses shes incurred over the life of the claim. But I dont think its fair RSA pay 
expenses for periods where I conclude Ms S was responsible for the delays. However, the 
claim journey is convoluted to say the least, and there are no clearly defined periods. But I 
must still arrive at a reasonable conclusion here. 
So, Im going to focus on the period between Ms S first raising her complaints with RSA 
(February/March 2019) and our investigator issued her view (July 2020), a period spanning 
17 months. Having looked at the evidence, I think a fair conclusion is that Ms S helped 
cause six months worth of delay here, and RSA arent responsible for meeting any of Ms S 
expenses for that six-month period (the six-month period). 
But I think the following period, from July 2020 to the present date, should be viewed 
differently. Where a complaint has been brought to us, its generally because a business 
hasnt been able to satisfactorily settle a consumers claim/complaint. That consumers right 
to complain is set out in the DISP Rules. Where this happens  where a consumer remains 
unhappy with how a business has dealt with them  our approach is to expect a business to 
continue to reimburse a consumer any reasonable expenses they are incurring until their 
complaint has been finalised. That often takes a long time, especially where the matter is 
complicated, but that isnt the consumers fault. And this is what happened here.
What this means, in practical terms, will become clearer below when I address what I think 
RSA should pay Ms S for the expenses shes incurred during the lifetime of this claim. 
Contents  BER, Rest lists, items missing and unaccounted, and items remaining
This element can be broken down into two distinct parts  the items that have already been 
removed, listed and valued (the BER and Restoration lists), and those items that remain un-
assessed in Ms Ss home. 
RSA agreed with the £50,295 total further settlement amount I provisionally awarded. Ms S 
did not. RSA reiterated that a W&T deduction is permitted for clothing items, as per the 
terms of Ms Ss policy. But still Ms S believes any W&T deduction is unfair  the second leak 
was caused as a direct result of delays in processing the first-leak claim, and had the claim 
been processed properly shed have started repairs to her home before the second leak 
occurred. She also says its unfair because many of her clothes that have been destroyed 
were hardly ever worn. And, as she holds RSA responsible for the ceiling collapse, she doesnt feel there should be any W&T deduction to the Restoration list  which she says 
almost exclusively contains items from her main bedroom damaged by the ceiling collapse.
To begin with, Ms S policy permits RSA to apply a W&T deduction to clothing items, 
notwithstanding the deduction amount being undefined. So, a W&T deduction is in line with 
what Ms S policy says. I hear what Ms S says about some of her items not having been 
worn often, but in the absence of any evidence that supports that statement (which I accept 
is very difficult to provide, especially as most clothing items destroyed in this claim were 
likely purchased before 2017), I still think its fair to proceed on the basis that a 40% 
reduction strikes a reasonable balance between items worn regularly and those barely worn. 
So, this is the W&T deduction Ill continue to apply in this decision. 
And regarding the Restoration list, its still my view these items should also be covered by 
the W&T deduction. As Ive said previously, I cant conclude RSA were responsible for the 
ceiling collapse, so any damage caused to Ms S contents as a direct result of the collapse 
(and not the subsequent cross contamination in her home which RSA was responsible for) 
must be viewed as a claim event, and assessed accordingly.  
Ms S has re-valued many of the items on the BER and Restoration lists, to reflect what she 
says are updated costs of replacement. RSA were sent these for comment, but despite 
requests failed to respond with any comment. Notwithstanding, Im still going to use the list 
values which stemmed from values Ms S initially provided, as the basis of this claim. Ms S 
provided the amended values only after Id confirmed a W&T deduction would remain.
Regarding the remaining items in Ms S home, it hasnt been possible to identify, list and 
value these. Not all of these will have been damaged beyond economical repair. Some 
items will almost certainly be capable of cleaning. I know Ms S will disagree with this 
comment. And she has provided medical evidence which suggests the risk to her health is 
so great that every item in her home will now need to be destroyed. 
Whilst I appreciate this, and understand Ms S fears, I must also look at the limits of what 
RSA need to do under the terms of the policy. This doesnt stretch to paying to replace 
everything in the property where a professional restoration remains an option. And I cant 
discount this is the case here. Ive already said all material items should be deemed BER. 
To that Id notionally agree to add kitchen utensils and crockery, and other everyday use 
items. But I cant reasonably conclude hard-material furniture or ornaments should be. 
This may be an academic distinction without a detailed list, but it allows me to separate 
types of contents and allocate values to each. Ive already concluded Ms S contents were 
valued at £90,000 at the date of the second claim. And Ive already concluded the BER and 
Restoration items are valued at £43,295 (£25,150 + £18,145). So that leaves a notional 
remaining contents value of £46,705 at the date of the second claim.  
Based on what Ive seen from pictures in Ms S house, and from her testimony, I think 
theres unlikely to be many remaining contents that can be restored. So, for the purposes of 
this decision, I need to make another estimation  what percentage of these contents are 
BER, and what percentage are capable of being saved. And, having considered the photos 
and testimony, I think a fair estimation would be 85% being BER, and 15% being saved. 
Applying this to the remaining notional contents value of £46,705, it means I think RSA 
should pay a further £39,700 (£46,705 x 85%) for the remaining BER contents, increasing 
the total awarded for contents here to £82,995. RSA have already paid £30,000 as part-
settlement against this amount, meaning they should pay Ms S a further £52,995. 
This allows me to also address Ms S repeated comment that some items taken from her 
home by Rainbows agents werent on the lists they created, and duplicate lists they provided have never been fully explained  which I agree with. But the above calculations 
and conclusions means this issue is now academic  Ive assessed the likely remaining 
value (at 2019 values) of all of Ms S remaining contents, which by definition captures any 
items that may have gone missing or been listed incorrectly.   
I now need to address what happens to Ms Ss contents if she accepts this decision. When a 
policyholder accepts and is paid a settlement from an insurer in full and final settlement of 
any damage/loss claim, the damaged items in question become the legal property of the 
insurer. Put simply, the insurer is paying the policyholder for those items. And 
notwithstanding the fraught and unique nature of this claim, this is what would happen here. 
RSA have advised theyd still be willing to securely remove and dispose of the contents and 
could undertake this at very short notice. However, Im aware Ms S would refuse to accept 
that offer. And it had been agreed between the parties in 2019 that a clean-break cash 
settlement was the best way forward, and I think that remains so and Ive told RSA that. 
Which means Ms S settlement will need to include a sum to undertake this work. 
But RSA are still entitled to the BER contents in Ms S home when and if she accepts this 
decision. So, I think the fairest way to resolve this is to require Ms S to ensure all of the BER 
contents removed from her home are delivered to RSAs asbestos-agents. And payment of 
this part of the settlement is paid to Ms S only after the contents have been delivered. This 
arrangement also has the benefit of allowing Ms S to identify items that are capable of being 
retained and cleaned and ensuring only items to be disposed of are delivered up.  
I now turn to the issue of interest. Our power to tell businesses to pay interest comes from 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, set out in DISP 3.7 in the FCA Handbook. 
RSA have disagreed that 8% interest should be added to the contents award. Theyve said 
they didnt cause the delays, and in any event the items, both furniture and clothes, couldnt 
have been replaced because Ms S wasnt able to be in her home.
Where this Service upholds a complaint, we look to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in if things had happened as they should, which here is essentially a 
much earlier settlement (and no asbestos cross-contamination). This claim was in 2019, and 
Ive said the fundamental event preventing a reasonably prompt settlement was the mistake 
by RSAs agents when they caused cross-contamination in the property. Although as Ive 
recognised, I think Ms S was also responsible for delays during the six-month period.  
 
But the fact remains Ms S has been unable to replace her damaged items and will now need 
to replace these at 2022 prices. So, to compensate Ms S for not being paid the settlement 
much earlier - and being unable to replace her items some years back when she should 
have - I think an interest award on her contents settlement is fair and appropriate. So, I still 
think RSA must pay Ms S 8% simple interest on this element of the settlement. 
But because of what Ive said above, interest on the £82,995 settlement needs to be 
calculated differently  and broken down into three parts for interest payment purposes. The 
first two relate to the assessed BER and Restoration lists. Ive collectively assessed these to 
be worth £43,295. And £30,000 of this has already been paid, leaving £13,295. In relation to 
these parts, RSA need to calculate and pay interest as follows:
- In relation to the £30,000 already paid, pay 8% simple interest on this sum, calculated 
from the date of claim to the date the amounts were paid (deducting the six-month period 
referred to above)
- In relation to the remaining £13,295, pay this to Ms S within 14 days of her accepting this 
decision, and pay 8% simple on this sum calculated from the date of claim to the date of 
payment, again less six-monthsRegarding the remaining contents, which Ive assessed to be worth £39,700, RSA must pay 
this to Ms S within two weeks of their agents taking final delivery of the contents removed 
from Ms S home. I have no way of estimating how long that process will take - Ms S may 
choose not to deal with this for some time  so I think its fair to limit the time any interest 
award is applied to this part of the settlement. I think a fair award here would be for RSA to 
pay interest calculated from the date of claim until six weeks after Ms S accepts the decision, 
less six-months  regardless of how long it actually takes for that process to conclude. 
Finally, in respect of the notional 15% remaining items that may be cleaned, I repeat the 
award I made in the provisional decision for the cost of professionally cleaning these - 
£2,000. And, on the basis Im saying these notional items are capable of cleaning and 
retention, Ill also need to factor in the cost of their storage whilst the property is repaired. Ill 
allow £1,000 for this. These amounts are not subject to an interest award.
Alternative accommodation
RSA had agreed to pay nine months hotel and subsistence costs, although have commented 
that, since moving into the hotel, Ms S hasnt co-operated with them to progress the contents 
claim, or further attendance at her home. I dont think this is a fair comment. Ms S has 
engaged with our Service continuously since being placed in the hotel, both in providing 
comments to the provisional decision, and seeking information and assurances relating to 
how her contents claim will be assessed and other matters. Ive already said RSA havent 
provided all of the information Id asked for regarding the contents issue. And Im conscious 
that Ms S health has significantly deteriorated since the provisional decision was issued, 
causing understandable delays. 
RSA also believe all repairs should only take six months. They also disagree with the £5,000 
payment Id suggested for previous accommodation. They say theyd be willing to consider 
such payment if, and only if, Ms S was able to provide evidence she was financially liable for 
the property rent in question. 
Ms S has said the repairs may take in excess of 18 months, and shed like to be paid for that 
period so she isnt left at risk of having nowhere to live. She also repeated her belief that she 
had been promised a subsistence fee in the early days of the claim, although now 
understands that this isnt something that her policy provides.
Ive considered what both parties have said here, and its clear my provisional AA award will 
not provide enough time for Ms S to arrange the works necessary to repair her home. 
Accepting a point Ms S recently made, the first claim settlement notionally allowed a five-
month period for the first claim damage to be repaired. To that, I need to add time to 
undertake the extra works that I think are necessary (see the buildings section below). And 
furthermore, before any works can be undertaken, the property will need to be securely 
emptied, the asbestos contents safely removed, and the property subject to a deep clean 
and pest de-infestation to make it safe for contractors to work there. Together this is likely to 
add many months. And, the need to engage a surveyor, and re-tender the work needed, will 
also add to this. I think a fair estimate for the above to take place is 12 months.
I acknowledge Ms S thinks it will take longer, because of a scarcity of readily available 
contractors, and the fact her current health predicament means she needs to prioritise 
certain health issues in the coming months. However, Ive included an amount below to 
cover the appointment of a surveyor to professionally manage the project, and the time 
savings this would generate should mean that 12 months is a fair and realistic timeframe. 
Because of what Ive said about this decision providing a clean-break cash award, I also 
need to fairly calculate the period the 12 months further accommodation payment should cover. Im conscious both parties seek this claim/complaint to be resolved, and so Im only 
going to allow a two-week deadline for responses to this decision. And with it being sent on 
13 July 2022, that means responses are needed by 27 July 2022. And Ill be asking RSA to 
make full payment (cleared funds) to Ms S within 14 days of her acceptance of the decision 
(assuming she does accept). That takes us to 10 August 2022. I think RSA will therefore 
need to extend Ms S stay at her current hotel until this date (and pay the daily subsistence 
fee). The 12-month period Ive referred to above will then start from this date. This 
arrangement broadly mirrors what Ive told the parties in recent communications. 
Ms S policy provides for like for like alternative accommodation. What this means, in 
practical terms, is that RSA must seek to either place Ms S in a property similar to her own 
or provide sufficient funds to allow her to source her own property. Her property was a 3-
bedroomed terrace house. 
During both claims, Ms S resided in a property sourced from an acquaintance (as previously 
mentioned). This was a two bedroomed flat. Ms S has previously said shed be willing to 
consider a similar property, which may be a cheaper option. However, whilst I note this, I 
need to remain mindful of what her policy provides. There is no guarantee that shed be able 
to source a suitable two bedroomed flat in the short period here. And she may need to move 
into a larger property which will cost more. Awarding an amount that only covers the cost of 
a smaller property may leave her out of pocket. For that reason, Ill be awarding a cost 
equivalent to a like for like property.
Having looked at current available properties (using well-known property search engines), I 
could find no direct comparison to Ms S home within a one-mile radius. So, Ive taken 
values from close matches (three-bedroomed flats, and larger houses), to arrive at what I 
think is a fair amount - £1,900 per calendar month. And its this sum that I think RSA should 
pay to Ms S for the 12-month period.  
So, to be clear, RSA will need to pay to extend Ms Ss hotel accommodation until 10 August 
2022, continue to pay her the daily subsistence fee of £24.95 until that date, and pay her 
£22,800 to cover her further 12 months of accommodation costs. RSA have paid Ms S a 
subsistence fee up until 23 July 2022, meaning shes due a further £449 (£24.95 x 18 days). 
I now address Ms S accommodation costs for the period before she went into the hotel. Ive 
spoken to Ms S to try and understand why shes been unable to provide any evidence to 
support her financial obligation in respect of her previous rented flat. Shes explained that 
her landlord  an acquaintance  was unwilling to commit anything to writing, as it was an 
informal arrangement. Shes aware this presents an obstacle to me awarding any amount for 
the costs she says shes incurred. Ive seen extracts from her bank statements which show 
significant payments to an account appearing to be in the landlords name during the period 
of this second claim. But, crucially, theres no evidence to show these were in lieu of rent, 
which Id need to see to be able to consider asking RSA to pay for these sums. I also accept 
RSAs point that this prevents me awarding the £5,000 payment Id previously suggested.
I appreciate this means its likely Ms S has incurred significant accommodation costs that 
shes not going to recover because of her lack of evidence (across both claims). But the 
onus in any claim such as this is for the policyholder to provide evidence of any expense 
theyre asking to be reimbursed. Ms S has known this for some time, and yet hasnt been 
able to provide this, knowing the likely consequences of being unable to do so. It isnt RSAs 
fault shes been unable to do this, so I cant fairly ask RSA to make any payment to Ms S in 
relation to her previous rental costs. 
I should also comment on the AA expense limits on Ms Ss policy. The above £22,800 
awards, when coupled with the allowances paid at the beginning of the claim and the recent hotel costs, will likely total more than £50,000  significantly in excess of Ms S policy limit of 
£30,000. However, because Ive already said RSA (via their agents negligence) were 
responsible for the fundamental reason for the claim delays, I think RSA should pay more 
than the policy limit. A significant part of the claim journey has been caused by a non-claim 
event, and so Im satisfied its fair the policy limit can be exceeded following my award.  
Utility
RSA asked for sight of utility bills before agreeing to the suggested payments of £185 per 
month. Ms S said that I should follow the same approach that our ombudsman used in the 
first claim. This was based on her being reimbursed her rental property bills, less the amount 
equivalent to what she was paying in her home. 
I agree this is the correct way to measure the increase in utility expenditure RSA would be 
liable for under the terms of Ms S policy. And Ms S has provided me with copy utility bills for 
the second claim period. But I also need to understand what Ms S would have paid at her 
home between 2019 and 2021 in order to accurately calculate the excess Ms S did pay. 
Using her payment figures from 2016 (which were used to calculate the first claim award) 
were too out of date. This is especially so as there have been utility price rises in the period. 
Ms S has been unable to tell me how much she would have paid had she remained in her 
home between 2019 and 2021. Im satisfied, in 2016, she had the benefit of a favourable 
contract with her energy suppliers, but I cant be satisfied that shed have continued to pay 
the same amount after 2019. Its my understanding that her 2016 utility bills were based on 
the previous years usage. But usage would still, I presume, be calculated using energy unit 
rates each year  which have increased. So, I cant safely conclude Ms S would have been 
paying the same amount for her utility bills in 2019 onwards that she was paying in 2016. 
Which means the best and fairest way for me to approach this element of the award is to 
apply a comparison  as I did in the provisional decision. The extra utility costs Ms S paid in 
the first claim were £185 per month. On the reasonable assumption that unit rates increased 
proportionally over time  so the difference would have remained broadly constant - this is 
the amount I will use here. 
I provisionally awarded £4,995 (£185 x 27 months). However, Ive recalculated the period I 
think RSA should be responsible for  the six-month period of delay needs to be taken into 
account. So, I now think RSA should pay Ms S £3,885 (£185 x 21 months) in relation to the 
extra gas/electric/water costs she incurred when in her rented flat.
Service Charge
RSA asked for sight of any service charges Ms S paid. I asked Ms S if she could provide this 
information, as she was able to in the first claim, but this hasnt been possible here. She had 
been paying this by direct debit in the first claim but has been unable to do so in this second 
claim. But, in the absence of a tenancy agreement that stipulates whose responsibility this 
expense would be  the landlord or Ms S  and the absence of any proof Ms S has paid it in 
the second claim period, I cant fairly ask RSA to make any payment for this. 
Council Tax
RSA asked for sight of Ms S council tax payments. Whilst shes now been able to provide 
some evidence relating to the obligations she continued to have for her home, Ms S wasnt 
able to provide anything to show shed been paying, or was responsible for paying, the 
council tax on her rental property. And because RSAs obligation was to pay the amount  above what Ms S would have paid had she remained in her home, it means I havent seen 
the necessary evidence to fairly ask RSA to make any payment to Ms S in this regard.
Fuel 
RSA has asked for more information regarding why Ms S would have needed to incur extra 
fuel costs, including for the period when she was in a rental apartment after the leak 
occurred. In the absence of this, theyve proposed a settlement figure of £20 per month for 
the nine-month hotel period.
Ms S has said that the amount Ive awarded is insufficient. It doesnt take account of rising 
fuel prices, nor the number of journeys shed have taken to keep an eye on the property. Her 
rental property was ten miles away (in busy city traffic, not smooth motorway driving). And, 
her various medical appointments had increased in frequency in the period, and her rental 
flat was further away from the various locations she needed to travel to than her home. 
I provisionally awarded £30 per month. Petrol prices between 2019 and 2021 hovered 
around £6 per gallon (just over £1.30 per litre), so £30 would provide on average 5 gallons of 
fuel. At approximate city driving speeds, that should generate about 30 miles per gallon  
which equates to enough petrol to drive 150 miles. That equates to seven round trips to her 
home from her rental property per month. 
Factoring in the extra medical appointments (Ive seen evidence of multiple medical 
appointments, and have no reason to doubt these increased in volume over time), I agree 
with Ms S that £30 doesnt provide a fair repayment of the extra costs she incurred. So, Im 
going to increase the amount awarded to provide enough petrol for a notional 250 extra 
miles per month. Using the above numbers, that means Im going to award Ms S £50 per 
month for extra fuel costs incurred for the period she was in her rental property. Allowing a 
deduction for the six-month period, this leaves 21 months to reimburse, equalling £1,050.
Regarding the period in the hotel, I accept what RSA have said - the hotel is significantly 
closer to Ms S home, and the extra petrol cost would have been much smaller. So, Ill only 
award £15 per month for the period between Ms S moving into the hotel and the date of this 
decision - or £135. 
In total, this means Im asking RSA to pay Ms S £1,185 for extra fuel costs for the period up 
to 23 July 2022 (the period covered in the provisional decision). 
Laundry
RSA have asked for evidence of the laundry costs incurred. Theyve also said, in the 
meantime, theyre in agreement to a payment of £10 per week covering the nine-month hotel 
period. I dont think this is a fair offer. 
Ive reconsidered the costs Ms S is likely to have incurred on extra laundry costs. Shes 
explained that shed have to pay for three regular washes (lights, darks, delicates), and 
separate drying cycles for each. This would be the same at her rental apartment and the 
hotel. She had no washing machine facilities in each. Ive no reason to doubt this. 
Im prepared to accept she undertook the above washing routine and averaged six wash and 
six dry cycles per month. This seems reasonable for a single person. I think an amount of £5 
per wash or dry is a fair allowance (having checked local launderette costs), so Ill be asking 
RSA to pay Ms S £60 per month for laundry costs. This would run from August 2019 (when 
her first claim awards finished) to the date of this decision, less the six-month period. Thats 
a total period of 30 months  so £1,800.Internet dongle
I overlooked including this in my provisional decision. Because Ms S didnt know how long 
shed have to stay in the rental property (for both claims), she didnt enter into any long-term 
phone or internet commitments. Instead, she purchased an internet dongle, which she 
claimed for in claim one. I should have included this cost in this claim. Using the same 30-
month calculation as above, at a cost of £20 per month, that means Ill be asking RSA to pay 
Ms S £600 for this. 
Future extra expenses
As well as reimbursing Ms S expenses for the period up to the date of this decision, I need 
to consider what shell continue to pay during the 12-month period Ive allowed for the repair 
of her property. The problem is I have no idea where Ms S will choose to live, what bills 
shell be liable for (service charge or utilities included or not), how close it will be to her home 
(the petrol impact). The usual approach would be to include an obligation on RSA to meet 
these extra amounts, subject to suitable evidence being provided.
But here, Ms S has remained adamant that she wants no further contact with RSA after this 
decision (if accepted), in order to protect her mental health. I do appreciate what sits behind 
this sentiment. However, I cant reasonably estimate an amount that I can fairly say RSA 
must pay Ms S in this 12-month period. There are simply too many unknowns. So, for this 
element of the decision only, I need to set out what RSA will need to pay Ms S at the end of 
the 12 month accommodation period, but strictly on receipt of the evidence specified below:
- Any council tax amounts paid, or payable, in relation to any property Ms S rents during 
the period of her home repairs  limited to 12 months. A copy of the council tax demand 
for that period will be required to be provided to RSA.
- RSA will also need to pay Ms S for any service charge payments shes liable for in 
relation to any property she rents, limited to 12 months. In this case, evidence of 
payment will be required for RSA to reimburse this sum.
- Calculating extra utilities is more difficult given what Ive already said above. So here, I 
need to use an estimation. Ill assume the total gas electric and water costs Ms S would 
now incur in her home would be £100 per month. So, RSA will need to pay Ms S any 
amount above this figure for the duration of any property she rents, limited to 12 months. 
- RSA will need to pay internet dongle costs at £20 per month, limited to 12 months.
- These amounts must be paid to Ms S at the end of any rental period, and within 14 days 
of being provided with all of the required documentary evidence. 
- But I wont be asking RSA to pay any extra petrol costs  it will be Ms S choice where 
she wishes to reside during this rental period, and so RSA cant be responsible for petrol 
costs if that property is a distance from her home.
Garden
Ms S was unhappy that I hadnt included any amount to repair damage done to her gardens 
and fences. Shes since provided many photos of the current condition of her front and back 
gardens, and the fences. These show her gardens completely overgrown. Shes also 
provided quotes from two local gardening contractors to repair the damage, and 
professionally clear the overgrown weeds and brambles, and repair/prepare the soil. RSA 
have been provided with these photos and quotes. 
Here, I need to consider if the condition of the gardens has been caused by the actions of 
RSA. If I think it has, I can consider asking RSA to pay towards the cost of the repairs. Ms S says shes been unable to access her gardens since the second claim, which is why 
theyve become so overgrown. Access to her back garden is via a door from her home, 
which is blocked by multiple asbestos-contaminated items that were left there when RSAs 
agents ceased attending the property. Its remained unsafe for her to enter the property, or 
certainly to enter and remove all the damaged items (and in doing so disturb the asbestos 
fibres) to allow access to this external door. I accept this. 
But access to the back garden is also available through a side gate. This was damaged 
during the first claim, and a payment of £800 was included in the first claim award to cover 
the repair costs. Ive seen photos of the damaged gate at the time, and I accept it was likely 
unsafe for Ms S to have opened. At this point, Ms S garden wasnt overgrown. 
However, Ms S was in funds to pay to have it repaired, which had she chosen to do so 
would have allowed her continued access to the garden over the past three years. Im 
unaware of any asbestos risks that existed in the back garden. And following the second 
leak event, I havent seen anything that justifies why the gate/fence wasnt fixed.
A fundamental expectation in all insurance policies is that the insured should take all 
reasonable steps to help mitigate against any loss. Here, I think that means Ms S paying to 
fix her damaged side gate  with the money shed been paid for that purpose in 2019  so 
that she could get access to the back garden. She was aware it was starting to become 
overgrown, and yet took no mitigating action  fixing the gate  to help deal with that issue. I 
know that she was busy dealing with the second claim in the months before ceasing contact 
with RSA in 2019. But I dont think that provides a reasonable justification for not attending to 
the gate, and by association the garden. Or put another way, I cant fairly say that RSA were 
responsible for preventing access to Ms S back garden  yes, the route through the house 
was unusable, but not the side gate if it had been repaired with the funds Ms S was paid. 
Regarding the front garden, there were no access restrictions to this. It was easily accessible 
via a front gate. So I also cant say RSA caused the deterioration in the condition of the front 
garden either. So, given the above, I wont be asking RSA to make any payments in relation 
to the garden repairs. 
Buildings
RSA said that £18,000 for the second-claim building repairs is too much, referring to their 
previous assessment which costed the extra works at £2,000 (although theyd agreed to 
double that to £4,000 here). And they also believe that my ceiling replacement estimation of 
£3,250 is too high, and instead propose £1,300 to cover ceiling removal, with replacement 
cost covered within the general building costs. 
RSA agreed in principle to pay the costs of a surveyor, covering both claims, but think this 
should be limited to 10% of the repair costs, which they calculate as now being £75,000 
across both claims (so £7,500 for the surveyor). But they agree with the extra £1,250 for 
drying costs, and £5,000 asbestos removal costs. 
Ms S has provided very detailed comments in relation to many buildings-related issues. But 
before addressing these, I want to begin by responding to Ms S comment that the 
settlement figure paid in the first claim will now be insufficient to cover the repair costs of the 
first claim building works  the effect of recent world events, coupled with the inflationary 
pressures theyve helped cause, means that costs are likely to have increased significantly. 
On this point, I agree that the quotes provided in the first claim  and settled following my 
colleagues final decision in that complaint - will inevitably be out of date, especially as the 
quotes were sourced in 2017. The question for me to consider is whether I should include an extra amount in this decision, to increase an accepted final decision award in a previous 
separate complaint. 
Ordinarily, this isnt something that Id consider. When an Ombudsman issues a final 
decision, accepted by a consumer, this brings an end to our involvement in that particular 
complaint. An accepted decision is binding on a business, and the merits and outcome wont 
be revisited by this office again. Here, however, the circumstances are fairly unique, and I 
think some sort of reconsideration of the quantum awarded is necessary. Ill explain. 
In the first claim, Ms S didnt receive the final decision until after the second leak had 
occurred, receiving the final amounts awarded some weeks after that. Its not in dispute she 
had no opportunity to undertake any of the required first claim repair works before the 
second leak occurred. And its now been a further three years since the second claim. 
Ive already concluded I cant fairly say RSAs actions (in not inspecting the loft area) helped 
cause the ceiling collapse  this was a second leak that was unforeseen, albeit one with very 
unfortunate timing. However, there were then delays caused by the way RSAs agents dealt 
with Ms S contents in the early months of the claim. And Ive already concluded Ms S 
helped contribute to some of the subsequent delays in this claim. 
But I think its highly likely this claim (and complaint) would have concluded significantly 
earlier had the asbestos cross-contamination not occurred. This wasnt the fault of Ms S and 
so I dont think, as a matter of principle, Ms S should be financially disadvantaged in her 
efforts to return her home to the condition it was in before both leak events.  
This was something Id have expected my route-map to have factored in  Id suggested 
(and believed it to have been agreed by RSA in communications) that an updated whole-
house survey was needed. And furthermore, updated quotes would have been needed too, 
leading to an updated repair schedule and costing across both claims (with the amount paid 
to Ms S in the first claim for building works subtracted accordingly). This approach, by its 
very nature, would entail a re-costing of the work quoted for in 2017. Furthermore, in a 
recent conversation with RSA, they acknowledged that an extra payment may be a fair thing 
to make, albeit they mentioned a few thousand pounds only as being acceptable. 
Taking all the above into consideration, Im going to include an extra amount in this decision 
to reflect the extra costs Ms S will now incur in repairing the claim one damage. However, 
calculating this sum is not straightforward. 
To begin with, I think the fairest thing I can do is apply a simple percentage increase to the 
claim one building repair cost. Ms S has suggested that building-related expenses have 
increased significantly following recent world events. I agree, although calculating exact 
increases isnt possible. However, I need to reach a fair and supportable conclusion here - 
and to do this will be guided by data sourced from the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) website, and in particular seasonally adjusted building industry cost indices 1. 
But I must be clear Im only considering an uplift in relation to the second claim period. This 
is because Ms S accepted the sums awarded in the first claim, and by doing so accepted 
that the sums awarded (and paid) were sufficient to undertake the works required following 
the first leak at that time. I appreciate the quotes the award was based on were provided in 
2017, but the fact remains Ms S accepted them. If I were to consider an increase in material 
costs for any period before the date the first-claim decision was accepted, Id effectively be 
changing the accepted and legally binding award that was made then. I cannot do that.
1 https://www.rics.org/uk/news-insight/latest-news/news-opinion/construction-materials-cost-increases-
reach-40-year-high/Which means I can only fairly consider any price increases from March 2019 onward. 
Looking at the RICS data, it shows general building costs have increased by approximately 
13% from January 2019 (which is close enough to March 2019 for this calculation), materials 
by approximately 22% and labour by approximately 6%. The repair quotes for claim one 
contain all the above cost types, but Im unable to perform a detailed breakdown. Instead, 
Im going to use an approximate average figure, which when factoring in six-month delay 
period mentioned earlier, I think should be 10% - and apply this uplift to the building costs 
awarded in the first claim. These (which included an amount for plumbing and some 
electrics) were £56,000, so I think RSA will need to pay an extra £5,600 here. 
I now want to address the cost of repairs for the new damage caused by the second leak 
and want to begin by considering what RSA have said about what they feel the extra costs 
should be - £4,000. I disagree with this. RSAs suggested figure is based on re-costing the 
first-claim as part of an exercise to cost all the repairs necessary and using what they feel 
are reasonable rates. Its based on an updated schedule of works compiled by RSA in 2019, 
some months after the second leak. But it completely ignores the legally binding outcome of 
the first decision, and the basis of the calculations in that decision. I think this is an 
inappropriate method for various reasons. 
It appears to use contractor and material rates that I think Ms S will find impossible to 
achieve. Both claims are being cash settled by agreement between both parties. And whilst 
Ms S policy allows RSA to cash settle at a cost no higher than what it would cost them if 
they undertook the work themselves, they still need to effectively indemnify Ms S for the 
insured losses shes experienced. That means the sum they pay must allow her to source 
contractors to quote for and complete the work. This is what happened in the first claim, 
where the repairs were independently quoted (at £56,000) and awarded in a final decision. 
In principle, this money is ring-fenced for those repairs. New second-claim damage should, 
in theory, be separately costed and paid. And having considered further the extra work that 
will be needed (more on that below), its inconceivable that this will only cost Ms S an extra 
£4,000, even allowing for the likely economies of scale that will be achieved by undertaking 
both sets of repairs at the same time. 
So, Ill now address the building works Ms S says need to be included in the second claim. 
For the purposes of clarity for both parties, Ill deal with this matter in more detail than in my 
provisional decision. Ms S has provided significant commentary on this matter. RSA has said 
there is relatively little new damage caused by the second leak. 
I agree the second leak effectively re-damaged some areas already identified for repair. 
However, having considered RSAs second-claim schedule of condition (July 2019) and their 
unpriced schedule of works (January 2020) against Ms S first claim contractor quote  I 
think its clear there are notable areas of extra damage/repair that need addressing. For the 
purpose of clarity, I summarise these as follows:
-Front Bedroom
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oRemove and renew skirting (painting accounted for in claim one)
-Bathroom 
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oRemove, dispose and replace ceramic wall and floor tiles, make good,
oIncludes replacing plywood floor base, and underlay as necessary
oAssociated prep work to all areas, including remove and replace various fittings
oReplacement of vanity unit (existing basin to be re-used)
oReplacement of failed sealed unit to double glazed window
opainting of areas not included in claim one quote
-Rear Left-Hand BedroomoRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oRenew skirting (take-off and refit costs already in claim one)
-Rear Right-Hand Bedroom
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oWorks to internal door, various varnishing (skirting, architraves, wardrobe doors)
oRenew skirting (refit costs included in claim one)
-Landing
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oPlaster crack re-filling, and redecoration
oRe-plaster walls that back on to front and back left-hand bedroom (where trapped 
moisture is present)
oRenew skirting (refit costs included in claim one)
-Hallway
oRemove/replace ceiling, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming (including 
under-stair area)
oRenew skirting (refit costs included in claim one)
oReplace under-stair door, remove/replace frame, architraves, finishing
oRemove and re-fix radiator
-Shower Room
oRemove, dispose and replace ceramic wall and floor tiles, make good
oIncludes replacing underlay and screed as necessary
oAssociated prep work to all areas, including remove and replace various fittings
oRemove, store and refit bathroom suite, and non-electric shower unit
oRenew shower tray and cubicle, install
oRemove, make good, re-hang door
-Kitchen
oRemove, dispose and replace ceramic floor tiles, make good
oIncludes replacing underlay and screed as necessary
oRenew skirting, plinths, cornices, laminated worktop, make good
oRenew and install built in gas-hob
-Living Room
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
-Dining Room
oRemove/replace ceiling, coving, renew boards  to include plastering/skimming
oRenew skirting (refit costs included in claim one)
oRemove and refix radiators
-Miscellaneous
oPotential for extra general electrical and plumbing (over and above claim one), 
extra debris removal, welfare facilities
oAllowance for further wall skimming once drying of all areas complete 
oLikely significant extra general building operative costs
To the above, will need to be added the costs associated with extra drying  RSAs agents 
commented that there was notable moisture trapped behind the tiles in the various wet 
rooms. The condition of these walls wont be known until work starts, and tiles stripped as 
mentioned above. There will be costs of hiring extra drying machines. 
Ms S also thinks I need to include the replacement costs of all built-in white goods in her 
kitchen, due to likely water contamination making them unsafe, coupled with potential for 
them having been asbestos exposed  in which case effective cleaning will be impossible. 
I cant conclude white goods have been asbestos contaminated  the 2021 asbestos re-test 
didnt find any asbestos trace in the kitchen (although I acknowledge Ms S disagrees as she 
believes items from other contaminated rooms have been placed in there). But this is the 
most recent professional report I can base my conclusions on. And Im persuaded these items were potentially water damaged, notwithstanding they havent been tested for this as 
far as I am aware. So, on balance, I think an allowance should be included to replace white 
goods as well. 
My provisional decision suggested a sum of £5.000 for asbestos/contents removal and deep 
clean, and £1,250 drying costs (which Id intended to cover machine hire and an amount for 
extra electricity costs associated with the drying process). It also suggested £3,500 for 
ceiling replacement works and £18,000 for remaining building items  so £27,250 in total.
On reviewing the above new claim list, Im not convinced this sum will be sufficient. The 
works to the bathrooms alone, given these include full re-flooring and re-tiling exercises, will 
likely eat up a significant proportion of the previously awarded sum. 
Its not possible for me to accurately calculate what all of the above new works will cost, all I 
can do is estimate what I think is a reasonable amount that it will cost Ms S. So, taking all 
the above into account, Im going to increase this element of my award to £45,000. This 
amount is intended to cover all new building work, drying machine hire, extra electrical costs 
associated with the repairs (including drying), and all ceiling replacement works. 
It doesnt include the cost of asbestos/contents removal and deep clean, and pest de-
infestation which I allowed £5,000 for in my provisional decision. RSA agreed to this amount, 
and I remain of the view this is a fair award for this work and will award this again here. 
I also included a cost for the engagement of a surveyor, calculated at 12.5% of the total 
building cost across both claims. RSA agreed in principle to this but said it should be costed 
at 10% of the total costs. 
Based on my above conclusions, the total amount awarded to Ms S for building related 
matters across both claims now amounts to £111,600 (£56,000, plus £5,600, plus £45,000 
plus £5,000). I disagree with RSA when they say 10% is a reasonable fee uplift for an 
experienced quantity surveyor to manage the repairs and oversee (as necessary) any 
tendering process. I think my original suggestion of 12.5% provides a better reflection of the 
likely cost Ms S will incur. That being so, Ill be awarding £13,950 for this.
Ms S said that Id also need to factor in separate hourly costs for certain initial surveyor 
tasks. Having considered this, Im not persuaded this should be necessary  Id expect Ms S 
to negotiate with whichever surveyors she engages to achieve a competitive rate. And Id 
expect this to include all aspects of that surveyors engagement. But I do agree with Ms S 
that the extra cost of a full building/structural survey will likely be needed. Its been over five 
years since her property suffered a significant leak, and over three years since suffering a 
further one. The property experienced a collapsed ceiling as well, which could only add to 
any structural compromise. If RSA were undertaking the work, in the circumstances Id 
expect them to undertake this extra step, and so its only fair that Ms S is provided with a 
sum to instruct one herself. Ill be awarding an extra £1,250 for this.
Distress and Inconvenience 
RSA agree to the £3,000 D&I figure, but on the basis the matter concludes on the financial 
basis theyve set out in their response. I continue to think this is a fair amount in the 
circumstances. 
I know Ms S thinks we should pay more. And that we investigate RSAs agents, and their 
actions. But our role isnt to punish businesses, or to investigate them. That is the role of 
their regulator. Our statutory role is to resolve disputes, which is what Ive sought to do here.Putting things right
Summary of awards in this final decision:
As outlined above, I think RSA should pay Ms S the following amounts within 14 days of her 
notifying this office of her acceptance of the decision:
-£13,295 in relation to her contents settlement
-£3,000 for remaining contents cleaning and storage
-Continue to pay Ms S current hotel costs until 10 August 2022
-Pay continued current hotel daily subsistence of £449
-£22,800 for future accommodation/rental costs
-£3,885 for utility costs incurred
-£1,185 for fuel costs incurred
-£1,800 for laundry costs incurred
-£600 for internet dongle costs incurred
-£5,600 to reflect the increase in costs of repairs following the first claim
-£45,000 for all further building repair costs following the second claim
-£5,000 asbestos/contents removal, deep clean and pest de-infestation
-£13,950 for surveyor/project manager engagement costs
-£1,250 for a structural survey
-£3,000 for distress and inconvenience
And within 14 days of RSAs agents taking delivery of the damaged contents in Ms S 
property, to pay Ms S:
-A further £39,700 in relation to her remaining contents settlement
The above amounts total £160,514, to which hotel costs for the period up to 10 August 2022 
must be added. Also, interest2 to be applied at 8% simple per annum on the contents 
settlement, and paid to Ms S, calculated as follows:
-On £13,295, from the date of claim to the date of payment, less six months
-On £30,000, from the date of claim until the date each separate payment was made, less 
six months in respect of each  both awards paid together with above settlement 
-On £39,700, from the date of claim until six weeks after Ms S accepts the decision, less 
six months, again paid together with that element of the above settlement
In relation to future accommodation-related expenses, and upon receipt of the documentary 
evidence as detailed above:
-Any council tax liabilities incurred on any rental property, limited to 12 months
-Any service charge liabilities paid on any rental property, limited to 12 months
-Any gas, electric or water costs, above £100 per month, limited to 12 months
-Internet dongle costs incurred of £20 per month, limited to 12 months
These amounts must be paid to Ms S at the end of any rental period, and within 14 days of 
being provided with all of the required documentary evidence.
2 If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms 
S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Our awards limit.
An ombudsmans power to make awards comes from the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000. Section 228 of that Act allows an ombudsman to determine a complaint by 
reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, And Section 229 sets out that an ombudsmans decision can 
include a money award that cant exceed a set monetary limit. These limits will depend on 
when the complaint was brought to us, and the date of the act or omission being complained 
about. These limits are set out in DISP rule 3.7.4R.
Here, the events Ms S has complained about started in the weeks and months after the 
second leak. I dont need to repeat these here. But Im satisfied that the acts initially 
complained about happened before 1 April 2019. This is important in the context of the 
amounts I am able to award here. 
Where a complaint is referred to this service on or after 1 April 2019, and where the date of 
the act complained about is before that date (as here), my award limit under the above rules 
is £160,000 (this doesnt include interest or costs). That is the maximum I can tell RSA to 
pay. If my proposed award is above that, I can only recommend that RSA pay that sum.
Based on the above calculations, the defined amounts Ive said RSA must pay is slightly 
above £160,000  its £160,514. The undefined amounts  extra hotel and future 
accommodation expenses, will further increase that sum beyond the £160,000 limit.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint against Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd. I think that fair 
compensation is £160,514, plus RSA to pay continued hotel accommodation costs until 10 
August 2022 and future accommodation expenses as detailed.
My decision is that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd should pay Ms S £160,000, as 
detailed above. And they should also pay Ms S the interest on her contents settlement as 
detailed above.
 
I think fair compensation is more than £160,000, so I recommend that Royal and Sun 
Alliance Insurance Ltd pays Ms S the balance. This recommendation is not part of my 
determination or award. Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. Its unlikely that Ms S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Ms S may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman