DRN-3365777
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander UK Plc havent sent him information that he feels he should 
be entitled to having made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr L made a DSAR to Santander, but Santander didnt provide Mr L with information he felt 
that they should have under the DSAR rules. Because of this, Mr L raised a complaint with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
The ICO partially upheld Mr Ls complaint as they felt that Santander hadnt responded to  
Mr Ls DSAR request within a reasonable timeframe. But they also confirmed that having 
considered the matter, they were satisfied with Santanders decision to not provide the 
information to Mr L that hed hoped to see.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with the position of his complaint against Santander, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt 
feel that Santander had acted unfairly towards Mr L given that their actions had been 
approved by a regulatory body (the ICO). And our investigator also noted that this service 
wouldnt look to contradict the instructions of the ICO, given that they are the relevant 
regulatory body in this instance.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear how strongly Mr L feels about this matter and I can appreciate how 
he would want this service to instruct Santander to send him the information that he would 
like to see.
But this matter has already been reviewed by the ICO, and the ICO are the relevant 
regulatory body in this instance. As such, given that ICO have confirmed that they are 
satisfied that Santander dont have to provide the information to Mr L that he would like, I 
wont be instructing Santander to provide that information to Mr L either.
One reason for this is because this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law. Rather, 
this service operates on a remit of fairness of outcome. And I dont feel that I can reasonably 
conclude that Santander have acted unfairly here, given that their actions have been 
approved by the relevant regulatory body, the ICO, who have already considered this 
complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was wanting, but it follows form the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I 
trust that Mr L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman