DRN-4396664
The complaint
Mrs K complained that Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) didnt tell her early enough 
that shares she held would be available to be traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) market 
after being delisted from the Nasdaq. She said this caused her to sell her shares at a loss 
instead of continuing to hold them.
What happened
Mrs K had an execution-only share trading account with Trading 212. On Trading 212s 
platform Mrs K held shares in a US company which Ill refer to as B.
On 23 April 2023 B filed for bankruptcy.
On 25 April 2023 B announced that the Nasdaq had decided to delist its shares and trading 
would be suspended from 3 May 2023.
Trading 212 placed a delisting notice about B on its app. The notice said, This stock is to be 
delisted on 03.05.2023.
On 27 and 28 April 2023 Mrs K sold her shareholding of B. By doing so she realised a loss 
of more than £8,000.
Trading 212 said it received an email on 3 May 2023 saying B had moved to the OTC 
market. This meant Trading 212 could continue to facilitate the buying and selling of B by 
Trading 212 customers.
Mrs K said she became aware after the delisting that B shares could still be traded on 
Trading 212s platform.
Mrs Ks complaint
Mrs K complained to Trading 212. She said Trading 212 shouldve made its customers 
aware earlier that theyd be able to trade B shares on the OTC market after B was delisted 
by the Nasdaq. She said other platforms kept their customers up-to-date. And Mrs K said if 
Trading 212 had kept her informed she wouldnt have sold her shareholding in B when she 
did.
Trading 212 said firstly that whether an instrument became available for trade on the OTC 
market was outside the control of Trading 212. And so Trading 212 had to wait to be told by 
a third party whether a particular instrument would be available on the OTC market after 
being delisted from the Nasdaq. 
Trading 212 further said it couldnt have kept Mrs K informed about the availability of B on 
the OTC market before she sold her B shareholding because the delisting event wasnt 
finalised, and further information about the delisting of B shares was still pending.
And Trading 212 said it wasnt obligated to notify customers when a stock was moved to a 
different market. It said customers should follow corporate news about their investments on 
their own. And Trading 212 also referred to its Help Centre article called What happens if 
my stock gets delisted from the market? The article said the following:
When a stock is delisted from its trading venue, trading is temporarily suspended 
until further information about the delisting is provided. Once the official terms of the 
delisting are clarified, we take appropriate actions on our platform following those 
terms.
In most cases, delisted stocks undergo a liquidation process at a specific price, or 
they may be deemed worthless with a price of 0. In the context of US markets, there 
are instances where stocks listed on NYSE or NASDAQ are moved from the main 
market to the OTC (Over-the-Counter) Markets. In such cases, if the stock is eligible, 
we may allow trading with it on the Invest and ISA accounts.
Mrs K wasnt happy with Trading 212s response. So she referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. She said she didnt think Trading 212 
had done anything wrong. She said Trading 212 provided an execution-only service which 
meant it had only a very limited responsibility to keep its customers informed about their 
shareholdings. She said Trading 212 was responsible for telling customers about upcoming 
delistings, but it wasnt responsible for telling customers if a share would, in future, be 
available for trading on the OTC market. The Investigator also said Mrs K had access to the 
Help Centre article and couldve sought more information online about the future of the 
listing before deciding to sell her shareholding.
The Investigator added that, because B had filed for bankruptcy, Mrs K would most likely 
have sold her B shares anyway  even if shed known they would be tradable on the OTC 
market  in order to cut her loss.
Mrs K didnt agree with the Investigators view. She said Trading 212 had been asked many 
times about whether the shares would go to OTC, and Trading 212 wouldve known in 
advance that it would happen, like she believed other brokers did.
Mrs K said she was familiar with the OTC market. She referred to the following excerpt from 
Trading 212s terms and conditions:
6.10 If a company goes bankrupt or is delisted from the respective stock exchange, 
we may attempt to obtain prices for the instrument on the over-the-counter (OTC) 
market. If this is not possible, you shall be informed that your positions in shares of 
this company shall be closed, and you agree to the closing prices.
Mrs K said Trading 212 informed her after the delisting instead of before. My understanding 
is as above if delisted they would know of going to OTC before the deadline not after.
Mrs K said she didnt agree that she wouldve sold her shares anyway. She said she held 
other shares on OTC markets which she hadnt sold.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Trading 212 said it wasnt generally responsible for keeping customers updated about their 
shareholdings. But Trading 212 appears to accept it was responsible for flagging a 
scheduled delisting to customers  and it did flag the upcoming delisting of B in this case. As 
Trading 212s Help Centre article says, Trading 212 also says it will take appropriate 
actions on its platform Once the official terms of the delisting are clarified. Where an 
instrument has been flagged as scheduled for delisting but Trading 212 are aware in good 
time that it will be available for trading on a different market using Trading 212s platform, an 
appropriate action would, in my view, be for Trading 212 to flag on its platform that the 
instrument will be tradable on the different market. However, its important to keep in mind 
that Trading 212 was not obligated to provide trading of B on the OTC market, even if such 
trading was possible and was offered by other brokers. And whether or not such trading 
would be possible was outside Trading 212s control.
With this context in mind, I dont think Trading 212 has acted unfairly or unreasonably on this 
occasion. If Mrs K was disadvantaged by not knowing earlier than she did that B would be 
tradable on the OTC market using Trading 212s platform, I dont think thats due to any 
shortcomings on the part of Trading 212.
Trading 212 said it found out on the day of delisting  which was 3 May 2023  that B would 
be tradable on the OTC market  and that that meant Trading 212 could continue to offer 
trading of B to its customers. Mrs K has doubted this. She said Trading 212 must have 
known at an earlier date. And she provided evidence from online forum discussions which 
she said showed that other trading platforms knew earlier and communicated earlier to their 
customers that B would be available for trading on OTC markets.
Having looked at the online forum posts, and other posts in the same forum threads online, 
Im not persuaded they show that other brokers knew and communicated significantly earlier 
than Trading 212 that B would be available for trading on the OTC market. Most importantly 
for Mrs K, I think its clear that Trading 212 didnt know as early as 27 or 28 April 2023  
when Mrs K sold her shareholding  that it would be able to offer OTC trading for B.
One of the online forum posts Mrs K shared was a forum post from Trading 212 on 27 April 
2023 which said:
At the time of writing, the exact terms of the delisting are yet to be confirmed. Once 
they are and the event is executed, we will reflect on the platform.
We'll keep you posted.
In that same forum thread an update was requested on 1 May 2023 and Trading 212 said 
the following on 2 May 2023:At the time of writing this, we do not have definitive information on what will happen 
next. Currently, the available information indicates that the stock will be suspended 
on the 3rd of May.
We'll keep an eye out for updates and share any news as they come in. In the 
meantime, we added a trading notice on the instrument's page.
And on 3 May 2023 at about 10.30am Trading 212 added the following to the same forum 
thread:
Hey, everyone.
We have an update: The company will move to the OTC market as of today and 
undergo a ticker change
The other online forum excerpt submitted by Mrs K included the following which was posted 
at 1.41am on 3 May 2023:
Spoke with [another broker] 12 minutes ago and confirmed otc listing tomorrow and 
options will carry over under [a new ticker] effective 8:30am est.
In the same thread the following had been posted earlier, at 12.27am on 3 May 2023:
My brokerage  has the same info and left this message
 After checking with our related team, we have no further information about the [B].
If it delists to OTC, typically, you can still liquidate the position on [the platform] after 
the corporate action is completed, but it cannot trade here.
Please kindly wait for an update from the related party
And the following further post was made at 12:35am on 3 May 2023:
I talk[ed] to [two other brokers] representatives today and neither one could tell me 
for certain [B] was being delisted other then (sic) news that it would be tomorrow.
The online forum posts indicate to me that on 2 May 2023 at least three other brokers  as 
well as Trading 212  were unsure of the future trading position of B. And awareness of its 
availability on the OTC market began to emerge late on 2 May 2023 and in the early hours of 
3 May 2023.
Trading 212 has said it only received notice on 3 May 2023. This is consistent with the 
information it was cascading to customers. I think its persuasive that Trading 212 did inform 
the forum when it says it became aware. I cant see that there wouldve been any benefit to 
Trading 212 in not notifying customers earlier if it had been aware earlier. It was clearly 
monitoring the position with B, and providing what updates it could. On balance it seems 
more likely than not that it was 3 May 2023 when Trading 212 found out that it would be able 
to offer trading of B on the OTC market. And even if Trading 212 could have  or should 
have  become aware on 2 May 2023, it couldnt have given Mrs K the information before 
she sold her shareholding on 27 and 28 April 2023.
Taking into account all the evidence, Im satisfied that Trading 212 didnt know the position 
regarding OTC trading of B any earlier  or at least not significantly earlier  than it said it 
did. And I certainly dont think Trading 212 knew the position early enough that it couldve communicated it to Mrs K before she sold her shareholding on 27 and 28 April 2023. So I 
dont think Trading 212 was at fault for not making Mrs K aware before she sold that she 
couldve continued holding her shares in B after they were delisted from the Nasdaq.
I accept that Mrs K might not have sold her B shareholding if shed known it would be 
possible to trade B on the OTC market. However, although the price of B rallied after B was 
delisted and moved to the OTC market, its shares have since been valued at nil and 
cancelled. If Mrs K had simply continued to hold the shares, she might have suffered a 
bigger loss.
Im sorry for Mrs Ks experience with her shareholding in B. I understand she lost a 
significant sum of money and this will naturally be very upsetting for her. But I dont think 
Trading 212 did anything wrong to cause her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman