DRN-3150985
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy she has with ReAssure Limited. 
She is unhappy that she was send an incorrectly coded letter in January 2021 about the 
anticipated maturity status of her policy. She doesnt think the compensation she has been 
offered is enough, given the size of the mistake. She has also expressed disappointment in 
the performance of the policy and doesnt think ReAssures handling of her complaint was 
acceptable.
Mrs Bs policy was originally arranged with a different provider, but ReAssure is now 
responsible for the policy and so I will refer to it throughout.
What happened
In January 2021 ReAssure sent Mrs B an update on her endowment policy. The update said 
that it was a green review, indicating the policy was on track to reach its target value. 
However, the figures contained in the body of the text showed projected shortfalls at all 
growth rates at maturity. Mrs B contacted ReAssure to question the letter. Mrs B has told us 
that she was told that the letter was correct. ReAssure said that Mrs B asked for the 
information to be looked into and that she be called back. However, no such call was made 
until after Mrs B chased a response.
Around a month later, ReAssure sent Mrs B an annual statement for the policy, as it always 
did. This statement showed that the policy was unlikely to reach its target value. Mrs B 
complained. 
ReAssure confirmed that the January 2021 letter should have been coded as a red letter 
confirming that the policy was unlikely to reach its target value. At the beginning of 
March 2021 ReAssure sent Mrs B a corrected update letter for her policy. This time the 
update said that the policy was unlikely to reach its target value and again showed projected 
shortfalls at all assumed growth rates. 
ReAssure apologised to Mrs B and offered compensation for the poor service it had provided 
her. However, it didnt uphold the complaint about the performance of the policy and 
provided an explanation about the poor economic conditions that had been encountered 
since the policy started. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response. She considered the compensation was 
inadequate in the circumstances. She was also disappointed that the response to the poor 
performance complaint was generic and not specific to her policy. In addition, Mrs B 
highlighted that the response letter wasnt signed, and she said that the poor English made it 
difficult to understand in places.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions regarding the performance of the 
policy. She said that the size of the predicted shortfall showed incompetence and she hadnt 
received an explanation of why the shortfall was predicted to happen. She didnt consider a 
generic explanation to be adequate and she also highlighted that the fund her endowment 
policy was invested in had performed worse than other funds. However, she was satisfied 
with the total amount of compensation offered by ReAssure and considered that part of her 
complaint closed. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has confirmed that she is happy with the amount of compensation offered in relation 
to the January 2021 update being incorrectly coded as green and the subsequent poor 
service. As such, I wont comment on that issue, but will focus instead on Mrs Bs concerns 
about the performance of her policy.
Mrs B and ReAssure entered into a contract. Mrs B agreed to pay a monthly premium and 
ReAssure agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also agreed to provide an 
investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target amount.
Unfortunately, the hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far from it. However, they 
were never guaranteed. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, it wasnt thought that 
would happen, but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. 
Mrs B paid her premium each month and ReAssure had to invest the premium, taking costs 
as and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is exactly what it did. Growth 
over the policy term has turned the premiums paid into a value which unfortunately is 
currently less than hoped for and is predicted to fall short of the target value at the end of the 
term.
Mrs B has been kept informed about the progress of the policy. It has been made clear that 
the policy is not performing as expected and is unlikely to reach its target value. Mrs B was 
encouraged to take action to deal with this situation and from what has been said during this 
complaint, she has done so.
ReAssure did what it had to do. Mrs B has known about the poor performance of the policy 
for some time and that the maturity value isnt guaranteed. I know that Mrs B believes the 
performance of the fund in which this policy invests, comparison with other funds evidence 
that ReAssure did something wrong. If I look across the industry, I see most businesses, and 
most investment classes, having had similar problems. The economic and regulatory 
situation is very different now from what it was in the 1990s when the policy was sold. That is 
nothing to do with ReAssure. I dont know where ReAssures investment returns sit in any 
table of results, but it will no doubt be more successful than some and less successful than 
others. 
Being able to say that, looking back, different investment decisions would have been more 
profitable than the ones actually taken is a statement of the obvious. To make judgments like 
that, however, would be to use hindsight. I cannot use hindsight when making a decision. 
A very large number of decisions over the term of the policy, relating to investments, costs 
and charges have been made by the investment managers at ReAssure. Those decisions 
were made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny 
(such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Some of the factors influencing 
returns were outside ReAssures control. Even if I were to try and drill down to individual 
decisions as Mrs B has indicated she wants done, it is very unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or set of decisions which were, without using hindsight, so manifestly bad 
or wrong that redress should be paid. 
I am satisfied ReAssure has kept Mrs B informed over the years and, as our investigator 
explained to her, its unlikely to have been in the interests of the fund managers to perform 
badly. I am sure ReAssure would have wanted the fund to do as well as possible. As Mrs B 
has stated, even if the fund performs badly the costs of managing the funds and policies 
invested in them are still charged. However, well performing funds attract new business and 
are more likely to retain existing business, which is how a life assurance company makes its 
profits. I havent seen anything to persuade me that ReAssure mismanaged the fund or 
acted negligently.
I am afraid the simple fact here is that Mrs B invested in an investment product which hasnt 
performed as well as hoped. That is not cause for me to uphold a complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
12 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman