DRN-3372724
The complaint
Mr M complains that since the migration of his account  from a previous provider to ITI
Capital Limited  hes been unable to access his account, withdraw funds and/or manage his
holdings.
Consequently, Mr M has had to borrow money from his brother, but was unable to repay it
when he was expected to. This has caused him a great deal of upset and embarrassment.
Due to the ongoing account access difficulties, Mr M requested to transfer his account away
from ITI. He says this process was delayed resulting in financial loss.
Mr M would like compensation for the financial loss and the distress and inconvenience
caused.
What happened
In early March 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In summary, I said: 
 
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what ITI says, I dont think it behaved
reasonably. I also dont think its offer of redress is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. I
agree with the investigators recommendation that ITI should pay Mr M £500 compensation 
for the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
However, I dont think ITI prevented Mr M from trading his Petrel and Compass shares. In
the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that he had the opportunity to do so but
chose not to, and for that reason  following the same logic applied to the Kirkland shares  I
cant blame ITI for any losses he may have suffered.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr M, and ITI, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I understand that Mr M initially held his assets with a different provider. In August 2019,
following intervention from the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the
FCA), the provider went into administration.
Im aware that in or around June 2020, ITI took over the previous providers client books as
the new provider  appointed by the special administrator  and Mr Ms assets were
transferred over to it in late July 2020, when he (not unreasonably) expected things to be up
and running.
Im aware that the platform wasnt up and running, during which Mr M had limited access
and he couldnt trade online. I note that eventually Mr M, very sensibly, asked ITI to transfer 
his assets to another provider, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
Its not entirely clear the size of the books that ITI took over from the previous provider that
went into administration. But its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will
have greatly affected ITIs capacity to deal with the additional customers and their requests.
I note its suggested that ITIs resources were much stretched. Based on what ITI says, it
seems the issues with Mr Ms account, in the main, arose out of technical issues, although
exacerbated by issues that I will consider in due course below.
Whilst I note that ITI now accepts responsibility for this, as well as the poor communication
and service it provided Mr M, its not entirely clear if it agrees with the investigators view to
award £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But whether (or not) it
does, for the record I think the investigators recommendation is fair and reasonable, for
much the same reasons. Im satisfied that this adequately reflects the time and effort put in
by Mr M to try and resolve the issues, as well as the distress and inconvenience caused. Im
mindful that Mr M didnt have full access to his account and had to borrow money from his
brother  who he was unable to repay when required  who sadly passed away.
ITI couldve accepted the ID documentation that Mr M re-supplied on 19 August 2020. But
based on what ITI says, I think it did so despite clarity issues  without Mr M having to 
resupply any further documentation in the end  as an exception to the rule rather than the
norm. It seems that the documents were still blurred but given the delays ITI decided to
accept them.
I note that a change of email address in the middle of this troubled migration may possibly
have impacted effective communication. Nevertheless, Mr M was entitled to change his
contact details, and its not his fault if ITI failed to record it correctly and update its records.
I appreciate that ITI tried to assist Mr M, and that its resources were probably over stretched,
nevertheless it failed to give Mr M full access to his accounts, and that was one of the main
reasons why he chose to move his assets to a new provider. In the circumstances, I think its
unlikely Mr M would complain to our service if he had adequate access to his account, and a
lot sooner.
I note that because Mr M couldnt access his funds, he had to borrow money to meet costs
despite having approximately £200,000 in investments. I also note that his complaint was
prioritised by our service, and ITI assigned a case handler who arranged the sum of £5,000
to be released on 3 December 2020. Again, I agree with the investigator that its unlikely ITI
would need to do this if Mr M had access to his account since September 2020.
I note Mr M borrowed money from his brother, but unfortunately, he couldnt pay the money
back when required to do so because he didnt have access to his funds. Sadly, Mr Ms
brother passed away, and Mr M was left distressed, ashamed and embarrassed.
Whilst I appreciate it isnt reasonable to expect a business that provides an online service toguarantee that the service will always be available, as it can be affected by matters outside
of its control, in this instance I still dont think ITI treated Mr M reasonably given its
communication and length of delay.
In the circumstances, I think its offer of redress  in the sum of £75  is inadequate. Given
everything that Mr M has been through, I think the investigators recommendation to pay him
£300 is broadly fair and reasonable.
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded
that Mr M was trying to make a specific trade but was prevented from doing so by the 
platform access issues, and I cant reasonably award redress based on hypothetical losses.
In other words, in this instance Im not persuaded that Mr M is entitled to redress (for losses
claimed) just because he experienced issues accessing the platform and viewing his
holdings, for which ITI has accepted responsibility, and subsequent delayed transfer.
I note that to resolve the difficulties with his account, in September 2020 Mr M chose to
move his assets to a new provider. Im aware that this process was also subject to delays
and not all his assets were transferred in December 2020.
I also note that despite what ITI initially said about the Kirkland shares, for reasons that
remain unclear they were eventually transferred by ITI, therefore, these shares couldve
been transferred sooner.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think ITI prevented Mr M from selling his
Kirkland shares  and therefore it isnt responsible for any losses he may have suffered. This
isnt just because Mr M didnt sell them soon after the transfer as suggested by the
investigator  I appreciate pricing may have been an issue  but because Mr M refused to
sell them when ITI offered him an opportunity to do so, on his behalf.
On balance I dont think the situation with the Kirkland shares is materially different to that of
the Petrel and Compass shares for which shes recommended redress.
Im satisfied that Mr M also had the opportunity to sell the material shares but decided not to.
I also note he didnt sell them straightaway, but a month later. Whilst I appreciate everything
else that was going on at the time, I also cant rule out that pricing was a factor, and that he
had  like that Kirkland shares  an opportunity to sell but chose to wait for the transfer to
complete first. For that I cant blame ITI.
In my opinion, Mr M refusing to sell the Petrel and Compass shares with ITI when he had an
opportunity to do so  even though hed lost faith in ITI  broke the chain of causation. I
appreciate it was his choice to make, and it probably wasnt an easy one to make, but on
balance, in this instance I dont think ITI are responsible for the consequences of his
decision.
Had Mr M chosen to sell with ITI, and the sale was delayed, and he suffered a financial loss
as a result, the circumstances would be different. Or, if Mr M hadnt been given any
opportunity to sell his shares, and did so immediately after the transfer, that situation would
also be different. But neither or those situations are what Im faced with in this case and
therefore I cant say that ITI wouldnt have been capable of the sale.
Im satisfied that Mr M had an opportunity to deal over the telephone. Im not suggesting it
wouldve been easier than trading online, just that it was an option available, should Mr M
wish to trade. I also accept it isnt the same as online trading in terms of either convenience,
or otherwise. But the option of using the phone isnt provided on the basis that it provides thesame service as the online service. It is commonly to allow customers the opportunity of
carrying out a trade when they dont have access to the online service.
Despite what Mr M says, Im aware that the alternative of using the phone instead of the
online service is common with stockbrokers and Im satisfied this is a reasonable alternative
to the online service - when this isnt available.
Whilst I appreciate the investigators logic for redress, I also think its based on numerous
assumptions including that the delays are all down to ITI. But in the circumstances, and on
balance, despite Mr Ms reservations, I cant safely say that the sale of the Petrel and 
Compass shares wouldnt have gone through in a timely manner.
As Ive mentioned above, on balance, I think the situation with the Kirkland shares and the
Petrel and Compass shares are materially indistinguishable  in that Mr M didnt sell them
when he had an opportunity to do so  therefore I dont think Mr M is entitled to any redress
for this aspect of his complaint.
The above notwithstanding, Im persuaded that Mr M is entitled to further compensation
owing to the incomplete transfer, delays and apparent misinformation about the Kirkland
shares. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think another £200 compensation for
distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im only going to ask ITI to pay £500
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold the claim for
financial loss compensation and give Mr M what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Mr M responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following key points:
Some of the points in my provisional decision arent true. People have shared 
hundreds of pages of similar experiences online about ITI. 
He realised there was a problem with the email because he changed his internet 
provider whilst the administrator was sorting out the Selftrade account. 
He tried to contact the business as soon as he found out it had taken over the 
account. Hed ring, hold and get cut off  it was impossible to get through. 
The problem came not from it having an out of date email, but not having anyone to 
answer the phone. 
The documentation problem arose when he tried to switch accounts  until then it 
had never been mentioned. He tried to send what was required but the big problem 
arose after ITI received a photo it deemed unsuitable but didnt contact him. 
It was only when he chased matters up that he realised that there was a problem. No 
one contacted him. 
At no point was he able to trade shares and because of this he lost money. 
After wasting hours on the phone to ITI he confirmed he didnt want to stay with 
them. 
He couldnt see individual shares that made up the account. Transactions were 
purely online, and he had no facility to do the transactions. 
He was never offered any facility to sell shares, and hes lost money because of it. Eventually, with the help of our service, he was able to withdraw £5,000 and pay his 
sister-in-law. The transfer took forever. 
The Kirkland shares were missing without explanation. Hell never know why that 
was the case. 
He was unable to access his shares for a long time and consequently hes lost a 
small fortune. The embarrassment it has caused him is incalculable. 
ITI took on a volume of work it was unable to deal with in terms of both manpower 
and infrastructure.   
ITI also responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short, it reiterated its increased 
offer of compensation in response to the investigators view over the amount Id mentioned. 
It also confirmed that it didnt accept Mr Ms claim for loss of opportunity. However, it wished 
to convey its sincere apology for any distress and inconvenience caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Thats why in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused I still think ITI should pay 
Mr M £500 compensation. Despite what Mr M says, on balance, I think its broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
Whilst I appreciate it isnt reasonable to expect a business that provides an online service to
guarantee that the service will always be available, as it can be affected by matters outside
of its control, in this instance I still dont think ITI treated Mr M reasonably given its
communication and length of delay.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms recent response  including issues with email and not being able 
to get in touch  Im still satisfied that the compensation adequately reflects the time and 
effort put in by him to try and resolve the issues, as well as the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Im also mindful that Mr M didnt have full access to his account and had to borrow 
money from his brother who sadly died. Im mindful that in due course he had to pay his 
sister-in-law, and the process took time.  
I also appreciate that people have most likely shared stories online of their experience of ITI, 
but that of itself doesnt persuade me to change my decision. Im only considering ITIs 
actions in relation to Mr M. 
Despite what Mr M says, on balance I still dont think ITI prevented him from trading his 
Petrel and Compass shares. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that he had 
the opportunity to do so but chose not to, and for that reason  following the same logic 
applied to the Kirkland shares  I cant blame ITI for any losses he may have suffered. 
In other words, I still think the situation with the Kirkland shares and the Petrel and Compass 
shares are materially indistinguishable  in that Mr M didnt sell them when he had an 
opportunity to do so  therefore despite what Mr M says, I dont think hes entitled to any 
redress for this aspect of his complaint.As I said in my provisional decision, had Mr M chosen to sell with ITI, and the sale was 
delayed, and he suffered a financial loss as a result, the circumstances would be different. 
Or, if Mr M hadnt been given any opportunity to sell his shares, and did so immediately after 
the transfer, that situation would also be different. But neither or those situations are what 
Im faced with in this case and therefore I cant say that ITI wouldnt have been capable of 
the sale.
The above notwithstanding, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr M had an opportunity to deal 
over the telephone. Im not suggesting it wouldve been easier than trading online, just that it 
was an option available, should Mr M wish to trade. 
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive maintained my decision. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im only going to ask ITI to pay £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold the claim for
financial loss compensation and give Mr M what he wants.
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr M £500 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman