DRN-3021814
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) undervalued his 
van following a total loss claim.
What happened
Following an incident with a third-party vehicle Mr J submitted a claim on his commercial 
motor policy. After a review, Admiral offered Mr J a total of £1,920 (incl VAT) to settle his 
claim as it said this represented the market value of his van.
But Mr J doesnt think this offer is fair and wants Admiral to pay what he thinks the van is 
worth. Mr J says to get a like for like replacement it would cost him a lot more. Mr J says his 
van was immaculate, as due to the nature of his job which entails carrying blood for the 
NHS, his van needs to be in pristine condition. Hes submitted some advertisements hes 
found online for similar vans valued at between £3,000 and £4,500. He says its very difficult 
in the current market to get a similar van, and impossible to get one for the amount Admiral 
is offering. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied the 
valuation placed on the van by Admiral was fair. 
But Mr J doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J is unhappy with the valuation Admiral has placed on his van. He says his van was in 
pristine condition and the valuation provided by Admiral is not representative of his specific 
van. Mr J also says that hes having great difficulty finding a van to match the condition of his 
van, given his job and the high-quality condition expected in order for him to carry out his 
role. Hes also pointed to the difficulty hes currently experiencing due to the lack of similar 
vans on the market. 
Our approach is to consider whether Admiral has settled Mr Js claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of the policy 
and the offer made in order to determine whether Admiral has acted fairly. I can see that in 
the event the van cant be repaired, Admiral wont pay more than the market value of the van 
at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, 
model,year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the 
term market in which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if 
you bought your car privately or at an auction. Non-European manufactured cars will be 
valued based on European import values or the nearest British equivalent.
Our usual approach to complaints about car or van valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised 
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the 
mileage. If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. But differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or 
rare model. Or on the rare occasion when we cant value a vehicle using the motor trade 
guides 
And this is one of these occasions. Due to the high mileage on Mr Js vehicle, none of the 
trade guides are returning a valuation. The mileage on Mr Js vehicle is 274,946 miles.
So, Ive ran the valuations using the highest mileage I can. Just to give me an idea of what 
values can be achieved. Cazana has allowed us to run a valuation on a van with 250,000 
miles. This is coming in at £1,941 ex VAT. CAP is allowing us to run a valuation on a van 
with 180,000 miles. This is coming in at £1,950 ex VAT. But Im conscious that these 
mileages are a lot lower than Mr Js van. Glasss is not providing us with anything.
Admiral has offered a value of £1,920. It had the same issues as us, so it asked an 
independent engineer to place a value on the vehicle. The engineer has placed a value of 
£1,600 ex VAT on this vehicle. 
Because the trade guides arent giving us a true picture of the value, Im going to look at the 
advertisements provided by both Admiral in the independent engineers report and Mr J. 
Admiral has provided us with a Parkers online valuation table showing a mileage adjusted 
valuation of £1,640 ex VAT. Its also provided three advertisements, all showing vans 
registered in 2006 with all vans coming in under 200,000 miles. The values are coming in at 
£1,475, £1,500 and £1,595 respectively. The lowest valuation is ex VAT. Its unclear if the 
other valuations include or exclude VAT.
Mr J has also provided a number of advertisements. These van valuations range from 
£3,000 to £4,394. They are all for vans a year younger (2007), and some are a different 
spec. I only have the mileage for one of the three, 172,000 miles.
Its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Js vehicle. Its our role to make 
sure Admiral is giving Mr J a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. I appreciate 
given the high mileage of Mr Js van, the usual recognised approach is not going to work 
here. So, we need to look holistically at all the valuations provided and see if they meet most 
of the criteria of Mr Js van. We can then work from there. 
I appreciate that Mr J is struggling to find a van with the same spec and condition online. 
And I understand his argument that outside of the normal criteria that drive the price such as 
age, mileage, or additional extras, the national lockdown following Covid19 restrictions has 
had a specific impact on the sale of commercial vehicles. Im also aware that the make and 
model of Mr Js van underwent an upgrade in 2006. But having looked at the spec of the 
upgrade and at all the examples provided Im satisfied that all examples provided are of the upgraded model, and as such achieving the higher price of 2006 models (with the older 
model being less popular). 
Looking at the examples Mr J has provided I can see they are not in line with the 
specifications of his own van. Unfortunately, they are all a different year, and either the 
mileage is much lower than his vans, or not provided. So, Im not surprised they are a higher 
value. And because of this Im going to have to discount these examples as they are out of 
sync with the other data Ive seen on file, and theyre not a like for like specification of Mr Js 
van. 
Looking at the examples, guides and advertisements provided by Admiral I can see these 
are closer to the specifications of the van that Mr J had, albeit with a much lower mileage 
than Mr Js van. Im also mindful that Admiral asked a qualified expert to place a value on 
the vehicle.
I appreciate Mr Js argument that his van was in pristine condition and that the market is full 
of ex-builder vans that arent suitable for his job. But I need to take into account that the 
policy terms will only pay the market value for a vehicle, Market value doesnt mean that the 
value provided will specifically be a valuation of Mr Js van. Even though I dont doubt Mr Js 
van was in good condition for its age and mileage. But its accepted that the market value 
would reflect the condition of the van in its price. And I can see most of the examples we 
have on file are deemed to be in good condition. So, Im satisfied these prices are in line with 
what Mr J would achieve for his van, especially when we take into account the higher 
recorded mileage on his van.
So, having looked at everything Ive seen, using the trade guides as a guide, and putting 
more weight in this case on the qualified experts opinion and the advertisements provided 
by Admiral, Im satisfied that the valuation that Admiral are offering for the van, a value of 
£1,920 which is inclusive of VAT is fair and reasonable. As such, I wont be asking Admiral 
to increase its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman