DRN-3626909
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance.
Mr T bought his policy through an intermediary and the policy is administered by a third party 
company on Avivas behalf. All of Mr Ts correspondence has been with these companies. 
However, Aviva is the policy underwriter, so his complaint is against Aviva. Any reference to 
Aviva in my decision includes its agents, including the intermediary and administrator.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr T took out a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. The policy 
included home emergency cover. Later that month, Mr T called Aviva to report a blocked 
drain and arrange an emergency repair. Avivas engineer investigated the problem and 
found that a drainage pipe had been installed wrongly during recent building work. Based on 
this, Aviva declined the claim. It told Mr T his drains had been incorrectly installed and 
damage caused by bad workmanship wasnt covered by his policy. 
Mr T complained to Aviva. He said Avivas engineer took up and broke many tiles and left 
them in his garden. He also said Aviva scheduled another engineer visit in early January 
2022 but didnt show up. Aviva didnt change its decision to decline the claim, but it 
apologised for its engineer failing to attend the January appointment. It agreed to pay him 
£50 for this. 
Mr T didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Aviva to refund 
the costs he incurred getting the drain fixed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Aviva had shown the blockage was caused by poor workmanship and this 
wasnt covered by Mr Ts policy. She thought Avivas decision to decline the claim was 
reasonable. She was also satisfied that its £50 offer to apologise for the missed appointment 
was fair.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Home Emergency Cover section in Mr Ts policy booklet sets out whats covered by 
this part of his insurance. It includes internal and external plumbing and draining problems 
(page 30), such as blocked or collapsed external drains (page 33). However, the policy 
explicitly excludes faulty workmanship or the use of defective materials (page 35). 
Avivas engineer found the blockage was caused by a back filling pipe in other pipe work. 
In other words, bad workmanship by the builders who installed the pipes during recent 
building work. Aviva said this meant the drain is incorrectly installed so not covered by his 
policy. It also told us Mr T has not provided any information to dispute this diagnosis. 
I agree with this. The February 2022 invoices from Mr Ts builder are the only evidence hes 
provided about the cause of the blockage. The second invoice includes a summary of the 
repair work: Found a clay collar to be broken where the private drainage meets the main. 
Cut out broken section replace with new plastic back fill and make good.
Im not persuaded this means Avivas engineers diagnosis was wrong. On balance, I think 
the back fill problem was the primary cause of the blockage and I think Avivas explanation  
that this was poor workmanship by Mr Ts builders  is reasonable.
Finally, Ive looked at the photos provide by both Aviva and Mr T showing the area around 
the drain after Avivas engineer had made his inspection. I think these show the drain was 
left clean and safe  as noted in the engineers site report  and I dont agree with Mr T that 
he caused unnecessary damage.
Ive reviewed Avivas internal notes and can see that another appointment was arranged and 
then cancelled in early January 2022. Im satisfied that this was an error by Aviva due to an 
internal miscommunication. I think its offer of £50 to apologise for this was fair.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied Aviva acted reasonably by declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman