DRN-2370329
complaint
Mr L says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
summary and background to complaint
Mr L bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a hire-purchase agreement. 
He applied for the hire-purchase agreement and PPI policy in store.
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay the monthly repayment of Mr Ls hire-purchase 
agreement in the event of Mr L being unable to work due to accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
The policy cost £5.92 a month and the premium would continue to have to be paid in the 
event of a successful claim. 
According to AXAs records Mr L paid a total of £213.08 for PPI during the policys lifetime.
At the time, Mr L was employed as a project manager. He has told us he was entitled to 
between three and six months sick pay, redundancy pay and a death in service benefit. Mr L 
has also told us he had a significant amount in savings which he couldve relied on should 
be not have been able to work. Mr L has said he was in good health. 
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ls representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ls representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means AXA should have told 
Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr L received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses 
and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC Code. This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
Among other things, the Code said that As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI), members undertake to enforce this Code and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance & Leasing Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code was introduced in 1992, and set out standards of good practice for the
finance and leasing industry. Section 4 of the code covered Credit Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements. The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA) should have complied with its code when selling PPI, and this extends 
to when it was acting as an agent of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, I am also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If AXA gave advice, whether it advised Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether AXA gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
AXA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Mr L completed at the time of sale. Within 
this application form, I can see there is a separate section called: Payment Protection 
Insurance Application. The form goes on to give a brief description of the cover and its cost. 
The applicant has the option of adding PPI to their account by signing this section 
separately. On Mr Ls form he has placed a tick in the relevant section, indicating that he 
wanted the cover.  
If Mr L didnt want the cover, he couldve left this section blank. I dont know what was 
discussed at the time Mr L took out the agreement, but I would have expected Mr L to have 
had an opportunity to read over the form and raise any questions he had at the time before 
signing it.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr L knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale and Mr L hasnt said whether he was given 
advice or not when he was sold the PPI. Looking at what happened when AXA sold Mr L the 
PPI, and based on what we know about how AXA sold this type of PPI I dont think advice 
was provided to Mr L. 
This means AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr L. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr L to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr L was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr L was unable 
to work through accident, sickness and unemployment) and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr L would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr 
L agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont think AXA gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Ls representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them as
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor 
value. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what a court would say  
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in 
the way Mr L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr L would have 
still taken out the policy, had AXA done things properly. Mr L says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr L thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr L was given about the cost was clear. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded AXA made clear exactly what Mr L would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ls expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his repayments 
under the hire-purchase agreement) were significantly different to what the policy actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr L knew about or 
ought to have known about, or which he saw a doctor about during the 12 months 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might well 
have caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr L might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr L 
from taking out the policy, Mr L, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would do. 
And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  although given Mr Ls 
circumstances, on balance, I still think he would have been interested in taking out the cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what it is likely he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage 
the consequences were Mr L made redundant, or unable to work through the accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr L would have taken 
out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. They 
say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would still have taken out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude AXA should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr L thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information AXA gave Mr L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000  when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman