DRN-3397665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc have dealt with a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ts house was flooded, and they contacted AXA to make a claim on their 
insurance policy.
AXA accepted the claim and sent out a loss adjuster to provide a report on the damage.
Concerns were raised that the property was underinsured, the property was insured at a 
cost to rebuild it of £700,000, but the loss adjuster felt the amount should be more in the 
region of £852,000. On this basis, AXA said the average clause in the policy applied to 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It said as they had only insured for approximately 82% of the 
propertys rebuild value, it would only pay that proportion of the claim. AXA made a cash 
payment to Mr and Mrs T towards the repairs needed.
Mr and Mrs T complained to AXA but as it didnt change its position, they brought the 
complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked at the complaint and said he thought it 
should be upheld. The investigator referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out remedies an insurer can take should a 
misrepresentation take place at the point of sale. In this case, the rebuild value of the 
property. He said that as he thought Mr and Mrs T had taken reasonable care to answer 
the question asked about the rebuild value of the property, under CIDRA, AXA wouldnt be 
entitled to take any action to reduce the value of the settlement. It therefore wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for it to apply the average clause in the policy which effectively goes 
against this.
AXA disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It pointed to long established case 
law which it said supports its position to apply the average clause to the settlement. It 
pointed out this clause is clear in the policy and isnt unusual. It said that it wasnt applying 
an average as a remedy for misrepresentation under CIDRA, but due to the fact the policy 
terms had been breached as the sum insured was not adequate.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2022. In it I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
The issue I need to decide here, is whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the average clause of the policy to the settlement of Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Ive taken into account the case law AXA has referred to; however, I note this takes into 
account the laws in place in the early 1900s and 1997. And I think it is fair to say the legal 
landscape has changed somewhat since then. My role allows me to make a decision 
based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable taking into account all the 
circumstances of the complaint. And, having done so, I think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Ive looked at the question that Mr and Mrs T were asked 
What is the cost of rebuilding the property?.
Below that question is a further explanatory note which can be expanded out when clicked 
on which is titled Quick guide to rebuild costs. And, further information about Things to 
consider when reaching a figure. It goes on to say that if the individual doesnt know the 
rebuild cost of the property, they could use a calculation tool on a recognised website 
which would help to provide a figure to insure the property for.
Having considered the question asked, I think Mr and Mrs T are being asked to give their 
opinion or an estimate on what they think it might cost to rebuild their property. After all, 
until such action actually needs to happen the precise cost would be unknown. So, given 
an opinion is being requested, any incorrect or different answer given may not amount to 
a misrepresentation, so CIDRA, as cited by the investigator may not be appropriate to 
consider here.
In this case, Mr and Mrs T were unsure of the rebuild value of their property and therefore 
followed the directions given and used the recognised tool as directed by AXA in its 
explanatory note. They took measurements from the literature which advertised the house 
for sale and input those into the calculator. Mr T said he double checked a couple of the 
measurements to ensure accuracy and as they were correct, he felt comfortable using the 
rest of the measurements given.
The tool gives different values depending on the condition of the property, Mr T said he 
considered the property was in a reasonable condition so chose a value in the middle of 
the range. I think this was a reasonable approach to take, as Mr and Mrs T have 
acknowledged some parts of the property are older than others and naturally therefore 
had different levels of finish. A middle value therefore would seem a reasonable one to 
choose. Its important to note here also that the tool doesnt allow different ages for a 
property to be put in i.e. to recognise aspects of a property built at different times. This is 
relevant as AXAs calculation broke down the rebuild cost for different aspects of the 
property  something that wasnt available for Mr and Mrs T to do.
AXA has said Mr and Mrs T used the incorrect measurements for the property which is what 
caused the rebuild cost of the property to be incorrect. It says its surveyor measured the 
property differently and Mr and Mrs T had failed to include a feature which would be relevant 
to the calculation. This is what ultimately caused them to use a different value and be 
underinsured.
However, having considered the reasons given by Mr T for using the measurements he did, 
I think he acted reasonably in doing so and taking the further step of double checking them. 
He wouldnt have been an expert on all of the features AXA required in its calculation, so he 
could have only followed the advice he was given.
Having considered the question Mr and Mrs T were asked. And given the fact they 
followed the guidance given to use a recommended calculation tool and relied on the 
values that provided. I think they took reasonable steps to give an accurate estimate of 
the rebuild cost of the property. After all, that is all builders and or surveyors would also 
do - give an opinion on what they think the likely cost would be based on material costs at 
that time (which can vary), albeit they may also have more resources and knowledge 
available to them.I dont think as consumers, Mr and Mrs T would have been well equipped to provide a 
completely accurate estimate. This would have been a challenging task for them and 
therefore it would have been reasonable for them to follow any advice they were given.
Simply because a loss adjuster, who has more knowledge and expertise in the area later 
arrives at a different value, this doesnt automatically mean the answer that was initially 
provided by a consumer was an unreasonable estimate. Where a consumer has followed 
the advice they were given and, taken all reasonable steps to produce a reasonable 
estimate, they have fulfilled what the insurer has asked them to do. It therefore seems 
unfair they do not have their claim fully paid because an insurer considers another later 
estimate by someone arguably more experienced in being able to produce one, more 
accurate.
AXA has suggested that it provides a warning in its policy document that should it find a 
rebuild calculation has been quoted at less than what it believes it should be, then any 
settlement maybe reduced accordingly. While I accept the policy document does suggest 
this, it must be taken into account this literature is only provided after the sale has taken 
place. AXA by its own admission has confirmed it doesnt provide such a warning at the 
point of the sales process where the customer is asked to and guided to provide a rebuild 
valuation. In any event, based on what I have set out above, Id question what a 
consumer would do differently at that point, if theyd already followed all the advice given.
AXA has argued that it has a contractual right to affect the average clause in the policy. 
Both parties entered into the contract willingly and therefore they are bound by the terms 
within the policy irrespective of whether they reviewed them beforehand. While this might 
be the strict legal position, and I will not make comment on this as it is not my place to do 
so. My role, as previously stated is to consider the matter and come to a decision that I 
think is fair and reasonable based on the circumstances of the complaint.
While I recognise the policy would allow AXA to take such action, and the case law it has 
pointed to supports that. For the reasons I have set out above, I dont think the application 
of average clause in the circumstances of this complaint provides an outcome that is fair 
and reasonable. And so, for the reasons stated above, I think AXA should meet Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim in full. I understand it has already provided a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs 
T for part of the amount so it should pay the remaining amount to them plus interest at 8% 
simple per annum from the date it made the original payment, to the date it makes this 
settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs T responded saying that accepted my provisional decision. 
AXA said it disagreed with the decision and provided further points for me to consider. I have 
summarised them briefly below:
The average term is clear in the policy documents and the insurance product 
information document that Mr and Mrs T would have received. It is also a well-
established principle in English law, with case law supporting how the term has been 
applied in this instance. 
It reiterates it is only applying the average term as the sum insured was incorrect.
The valuation was based on the square footage of the property and this was 
incorrectly given. As with all insurance policies, the onus is on the consumer to provide the correct information.
Mr T was clearly confused between the rebuild value and retail value of the property 
when he later spoke with a surveyor. And the surveyor recommended Mr T get his 
own survey done if he disagreed with the valuation AXA came to  however he did 
not do so.
The valuation tool recommended provides a warning that says the value is provided 
based on minimal details about the property and that if the property has special or 
unusual features professional advice should be obtained. It further says it is the 
individuals responsibility to provide an accurate rebuilding sum for their property, but 
the estimated figure provided by the tool can be used to assist with that process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the further comments provided, Im not minded to alter the outcome in my 
provisional decision. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, strictly speaking AXA is entitled to apply the 
average clause in the circumstances of this claim. However, I also pointed out that I make 
my decision on the basis of what I deem to be fair and reasonable having considered all of 
the circumstances of the case. And, as AXA is aware, this service treats each decision on a 
case by case basis. 
It isnt in dispute the value Mr and Mrs T gave for the rebuild of the property was wrong, and 
that in part came from incorrect measurements being used. However, I still think, as I set out 
in my provisional findings that Mr and Mrs T took reasonable steps to give an accurate 
estimate based on the information they had and were provided with.  
Following the recommended tool, a rebuild estimate was given and, Mr and Mrs T used that 
for insurance purposes. I acknowledge the tool also provides warning about giving accurate 
information, however I dont think this changes my decision here. Mr T would have still given 
the same estimate as he thought he was acting correctly, double checking the 
measurements and following the advice given so as not to make an error. 
The fact Mr T later became confused about the difference between a rebuild valuation and 
retail valuation, or the fact he didnt instruct a surveyor of his own to challenge AXAs rebuild 
value later in the claims process, arent factors that are relevant to my decision. As they both 
happened after the event in question  the point Mr T provided the rebuild estimate.
Having reviewed everything, I remain of the opinion that I dont think the application of 
average clause in the circumstances of this complaint provides an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable. And so, for the reasons stated above, and in my provisional decision, I think 
AXA should meet Mr and Mrs Ts claim in full. 
Putting things right
As AXA has already provided a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs T for part of the claim 
amount, it should pay the remaining amount to them plus interest at 8% simple per annum 
from the date it made the original payment, to the date it makes this settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman