DRN-1720265
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs K says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs K took out a mortgage with BoS in 1998. At the same time, she took out a PPI policy.
The policy covered her against being unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. The policy cost £17.71 per month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£350 for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale took place during a meeting over 20 years ago. Where there is limited information, I 
will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account 
the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs K has told us she cannot recall the PPI being discussed with her at all and didnt 
consent to the policy being sold. 
The mortgage and the PPI were sold during a meeting.
From experience, I think its unlikely the policy could have been set up entirely without      
Mrs Ks input. There would have been some questions around eligibility that would need to 
have been answered before it could have been put in place. BoS has shown us a copy of the 
original mortgage application form. I can see there is a section on insurance. This section 
contains the following statement, Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance. Mrs K has signed immediately below this statement.
Weighing everything up I think its most likely Mrs K was made aware the PPI was optional 
and she chose to take it out. Although after so many years I can understand why Mrs K 
might not recall this.BoS has told us that its adviser should have recommended the PPI to Mrs K. In which case it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances in 1998 I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs K was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, 
she didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And she wasnt in 
an unusual employment situation which might not have been covered. So, she could have 
claimed if she needed to.
Mrs Ks employers wouldve paid her sick pay if shed become too unwell to work. But this 
particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 
months. This is likely longer than Mrs Ks full sick pay would last. So, I still think Mrs K 
wouldve found the benefit useful if she had become too unwell to work, particularly if she 
was unwell for a lengthy period.
And if Mrs K lost her job the monthly benefit would mean she could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.
Mrs K did have some savings, but she chose to retain these savings rather than pay a larger 
deposit and have a smaller mortgage. So, I think it is likely Mrs K wanted to keep any 
savings intact. And the PPI policy would mean she didnt have to use her savings to pay the 
monthly mortgage repayment if he couldnt work.
Mrs Ks has told us her family would have helped her if she experienced financial difficulties. 
But this type of help isnt guaranteed, and her family may not have been in a position to help 
when she needed it most. In any event the PPI would mean Mrs K wouldnt have needed to 
ask her family for help to pay the mortgage if she became unwell or lost her job.
Mrs K cant recall being given any information about the policy. I cant know after all these 
years exactly what she was told or given at the time. So, its possible the information BoS 
gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out  
 - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs K has told us she had other claims for mis-sold PPI upheld. But there are many different 
types of PPI sold by different companies with various terms and conditions. And PPI policies 
were sold to cover different products. So, it doesnt necessarily follow that if one PPI policy is 
mis-sold then others sold to the same person must have also been mis-sold.
In summary, I think its likely BoS made Mrs K aware the policy was optional, and she chose 
to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy BoS recommended was right for her. 
And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made her act differently 
and decline it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman