DRN-3805597
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with incorrect information she was provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc in 
relation to her insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2009 Mrs H took out a Life Choices insurance policy with HSBC, which included 
protection for her income. 
In 2018 she was looking to complete her mortgage earlier than expected, so she contacted 
HSBC to request copies of her policy documents because she couldnt locate her own. 
HSBC incorrectly provided Mrs H with a document for a policy that included cover for 
sickness. However, Mrs Hs policy only provided cover in the event of unemployment. And 
paid a lump sum benefit on death or terminal illness. So she was misinformed. 
Mrs H then became absent from work in 2022 on long term sick leave. She attempted to 
make a claim under the sickness section of her policy. But HSBC informed her she didnt 
have sickness cover, so she wasnt eligible to make a valid claim.  
Unhappy with this as shed been told in 2018 that she did have sickness cover, Mrs H 
complained. HSBC said despite their error in 2018, they had sent regular renewal letters 
setting out Mrs Hs cover under the policy. They apologised for the misleading information 
provided in 2018 and credited her account with £200 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs H argued the renewal letters were just reviews regarding the cost of the policy and they 
all confirmed the policy stayed the same. She also said this error caused a severe impact as 
she was already unwell, then being told she didnt have cover after thinking she did, caused 
a significant amount of anxiety and stress. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and initially said he thought the claim should be assessed in line with a sickness benefit. 
However, on further review he said that although HSBC had provided incorrect information in 
2018, he thought they had made a reasonable and proportionate offer to acknowledge this 
error. And he was unable to ask HSBC to cover a claim for a benefit Mrs H never had or paid 
for, so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary she said: 
If shed been aware when she took the policy out that she didnt have cover for 
sickness absence, she wouldnt have taken it out as she said this was the main 
benefit she wanted. 
The unemployment policy she was sent states the benefit of cover are:
Monthly Sum Assured if customer is unable to work as a result of accident and 
sickness for a maximum period of 12 months 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into account, overall, I dont think HSBC treated Mrs H unfairly. 
Ill explain my reasons in more detail below.
HSBC has provided copies of their annual review letters from December 2018, 2019, 
2020 and 2021 which all state: 
Unemployment Choice Policy Premium Review
Your HSBC Unemployment Choice policy is designed to replace a loss of income if 
you're unable to work because of unemployment or if you leave work to become a 
carer for a member of your immediate family. I'd like to thank you for maintaining this 
cover with HSBC Life
HSBC has also provided copies of letters from January 2021 and 2022 entitled 
Here's a reminder of the cover you get with your HSBC Life policies. These letters 
clearly set out what type of policy and cover Mrs H has. The relevant schedules of 
insurance are attached  and they only include unemployment choice and level life 
choice cover with a clear summary description of each benefit: 
What do my policies cover me for?
Attached is a schedule of your Life Choices policies
1) Unemployment Choice
What is my policy?
Your policy is an HSBC Unemployment Choice policy. This pays a monthly benefit if 
you are made involuntarily unemployed or if you leave work to become a carer for a 
member of your immediate family.
When can I make a claim?
To claim you need to be made involuntarily unemployed If you become 
unemployed you will need to register with the Department for Work and Pensions 
and provide, on an ongoing basis, evidence acceptable to us that you are 
unemployed and remain actively seeking work. 
2) Level Life Choice
What is my policy?
Your policy is an HSBC Level Life Choice policy. This pays a lump sum benefit if you 
die or are diagnosed with a Terminal Illness. 
In addition, although I appreciate Mrs H misplaced her original policy documentation, 
Ive seen the policy schedules sent to her on 23 January 2009 following the sale, and 
there wasnt any schedule included for sickness cover. 
Taking all the above into account, even though HSBC incorrectly told Mrs H she had 
sickness cover in 2018, Im persuaded she should reasonably have been aware this 
wasnt the case from the policy documentation she received following the sale in 
2009. And the renewal and reminder letters she was sent in the years that followed 
2018. I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mrs H to have read through and checked the 
annual review statements and schedule of insurances that were sent to her following 
the call in 2018.
Im mindful Mrs H had never paid any premium for sickness cover and as above, Im 
persuaded the policy documentation sent after the sale made no mention of sickness 
benefit. There is an onus on consumers to ensure they understand the policy and 
retain policy information following its sale. Although its unfortunate Mrs H misplaced 
these documents so she was unable to refer back to them, that isnt something I can 
hold HSBC accountable for.
Ive considered Mrs Hs comments about the impact of HSBCs error, but I think the 
£200 compensation theyve already paid is fair compensation to reflect the raised 
expectation their mistake in 2018 caused. 
Its clear Mrs H was genuinely surprised to learn she didnt have cover when she tried 
to claim in 2022, and Im sorry to hear this caused distress at an already difficult time. 
However, as explained above, I think the annual review letters from December 2018 
onwards were, on balance, enough to alert Mrs H to the misinformation she had been 
given and decrease future impact. And I cant hold HSBC responsible for Mrs H 
failing to read her annual policy information. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs H, but there isnt any further HSBC need to do here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman