DRN-4041376
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the quality of repairs carried out to his car when he made a 
claim under his car insurance policy to Aviva Insurance Limited. Hes also unhappy that 
damage was missed, and if it had been included in the first estimate for repairs, his car 
would have been written off. Mr B remains unhappy with the rectification repairs. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim to his insurer, Aviva for damage to his car. Aviva arranged for an 
approved repairer (AR) to carry out repairs. Mr B is unhappy with the quality of the 
paintwork. This has been rectified but Mr B remains unhappy with it. 
In December 2022 Aviva upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. It accepted that further rectification 
repairs were needed, but that the paintwork had been signed off by a dealership garage as 
acceptable. For the distress and inconvenience caused by requiring (non-paintwork related) 
rectification repairs, Aviva paid Mr B £200 compensation. 
Mr B disagreed and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought Aviva had 
done enough in relation to the repairs. But he found that it had caused avoidable delays and 
provided a poor service which Mr B should be compensated for. He recommended Aviva 
pay Mr B a further £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
At this stage, Mr Bs car remained on site at the AR while he had use of a courtesy car. 
Mr B asked if he could arrange for an independent review of the works. Aviva agreed and 
accepted the Investigators view. The AR said Mr B could either have an inspection carried 
out on their site, or he could take his car to an independent inspector and return the courtesy 
car 
Mr B told the Investigator that he isnt able to arrange an independent review of his car. He 
says he will have to take it back, but he doesnt accept that the repairs are satisfactory. 
So Mr B would like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there has been back and forth in Avivas decision as to whether it was 
economical to repair Mr Bs car. The final costs including rectification repairs mean it would 
have been reasonable for Aviva to have settled the claim as a total loss. 
However, with the repairs to the paintwork having been signed off as to an acceptable 
standard by an independent dealership garage, I cant say that Aviva should change the way 
it has settled Mr Bs claim. 
I understand Mr Bs current circumstances mean he isnt able to arrange for an independent 
inspection of his car. But as there isnt enough for me to say the paint repairs havent been 
properly rectified by Aviva, it is for Mr B to show that his car hasnt been properly repaired. 
I think Aviva caused Mr B distress and inconvenience over and above what would be 
reasonable when having to deal with a claim. Mr Bs car was returned to the AR a number of 
times for rectification repairs. I think the compensation Aviva paid of £200 for the missed 
damage goes some way to put things right. But I think a fairer outcome is for Aviva to pay a 
further compensation award of £350, which Aviva has agreed to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
increase the compensation award it pays Mr B by a further £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, bringing the total award to £550.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman