DRN-3231159
The complaint
 Miss R complains that the car she acquired financed through a Personal Contract Plan with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2019 Miss R acquired a new car financed through MBFS. Between March 2019 
and August 2020, she experienced several issues with the car. It frequently had to be 
returned to the service centre. One issue, a persistent rattle, kept coming back. Each time 
her car was in the garage Miss R was given a courtesy car. The courtesy cars were not 
always clean or fuelled and on one occasion had to be returned for the same reason her 
own car was in the garage.
During this period the dealer compensated Miss R by refunding six payments. Miss R 
complained to MBFS and in August 2020 it agreed that Miss R could reject the car. MBFS 
offered a pro-rated refund of her deposit, £1,336.55 which was later revised upwards to 
£1,587.15. It said Miss R had had substantial use of the car and any loss of enjoyment she 
may have experienced was covered by the good will payments she received from the dealer. 
Miss R wasnt happy with this. She said it didnt reflect the past and present issues with the 
car, the time taken out of work and the stress she has endured since March 2019. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think MBFS could have done more for Miss R given the 
circumstances and considered the amount refunded to be fair and reasonable. Miss R didnt 
agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
I wrote a provisional decision on 19 November. I said: 
Its not disputed that there were issues with the car. The dealer has tried to fix Miss 
Rs car several times and MBFS has accepted the rejection of it. So, I dont need to 
examine the specific problems Miss R had with the car. The parties disagree with the 
amount of compensation MBFS has awarded Miss R and my role is to decide a fair 
and reasonable remedy.
Miss Rs agreement was a Personal Contract Plan or Purchase (PCP). A PCP 
agreement is a kind of hire purchase agreement. Miss R paid a deposit and then 
made monthly fixed payments for a set period. At the end of the period Miss R could 
make a final balloon payment to own the car outright or return the car.
When we say a consumer should be allowed to reject goods, in this case the car, we 
generally require a lender to end the relevant finance agreement at no cost to the 
consumer and, if appropriate, provide a refund and compensation. This usually 
includes any deposit paid and takes account of any use the consumer had, as well as 
other issues like interest. Setting aside for a moment that Miss R was refunded 
several monthly payments. I shall first consider what I believe Miss R should have 
been refunded.
Deposit
MBFS only refunded part of Miss Rs deposit. Her original deposit was £4,085.23 and 
she was refunded £1,587.15. MBFS said this was a pro-rated deposit refund and 
represented 19 months of the agreement. Ive seen a copy of the pre-contract credit 
information and the document explaining Miss Rs finance agreement. The deposit is 
referred to as a deposit and not an advance payment. There is also no reference to 
spread rentals. So, its not clear to me why the deposit was pro-rated. As this was a 
PCP agreement, I would normally expect that Miss R would receive a refund of her 
full deposit. And Im satisfied that in this case Miss R should have her deposit 
refunded in full along with interest.
Payments
MBFS has said Miss R was kept mobile and provided with courtesy cars for when her 
car was in the garage. Miss R said she had problems with the courtesy cars including 
suffering from the same issues as her own car and that they were dirty or empty of 
fuel. I note that Miss Rs car was in the garage for approximately 49 days in total. I 
can understand that having to take her car to the garage on several occasions for 
multiple problems and then having issues with the courtesy cars would have 
dampened and reduced Miss Rs enjoyment of her new car. For most of the time 
though Miss R was able to drive her car and by June 2020 the mileage was recorded 
as 6418 miles.
In considering whether MBFS should refund payments made to Miss R I must 
consider that Miss Rs new car was in the garage several times and up to 49 days, 
that she was kept mobile albeit with some courtesy car issues, but that she was able 
to use it outside of this. 
It does seem to me that 49 days in the garage over five visits is a long time for Miss 
R to be without her car, especially as it was new. And although the staff did try to 
help Miss R by presenting new contract options to her, ultimately, they were more 
expensive than her current contract. Despite being given a courtesy car I do think the 
refund of two monthly payments for the loss of enjoyment of her new car, would be in 
line with what I would expect under these circumstances.
Compensation
Ive read through Miss Rs comments about how much this situation has affected her. 
She reports experiencing repeated problems with the car, having to keep taking time 
off work to take the car to the garage and that this situation has been stressful. I 
imagine she did not expect to encounter so many problems with a new car and Ive 
no reason to doubt her testimony on how this has affected her. So, I think its fair to 
say that Miss R was caused unnecessary trouble and upset because of the issues 
she experienced with the car. And Im persuaded that MBFS should pay Miss R £300 
in compensation.
Summary
Having considered what I believe Miss R should have been refunded I must now take 
account of what MBFS and the dealer did refund. 
Over the course of the year while Miss R was having her car repaired the dealer did 
refund 6 payments as a gesture of goodwill. But in the end MBFS did agree to reject the car and I think it reasonable that these payments are taken into consideration 
when calculating the final amount of the refund to Miss R.
MBFS said to this service:
We feel that the usual pro rata deposit refund was acceptable in this case due to the 
fact that the customer has been given a hire MB vehicle to use and is therefore being 
kept on the road and considering the few issues she has had, she has had use of her 
vehicle with only being off the road in her vehicle for short periods and the second 
visit being 9 months in. She has been highly compensated by the retailer in a way 
that we very rarely see, and we have taken that into consideration with our offer
I dont agree that Miss R has only had a few issues. As mentioned above I consider 
49 days between March 2019 and August 2020 in the garage to be quite high for a 
new car and the multiple visits were inconvenient. I accept that six months refund is 
generous, and more than I would expect, but the pro-rated deposit refund is less than 
I would normally expect for such an agreement. And in coming to my provisional 
recommendation I have taken these into consideration. See the table below.
Original refund Provisional Difference
Deposit refund £1,587.15 *£4,085.23 £2,498.08
Payment refund £1978.26 *£659.42 -£1,318.84
Compensation £0.00 £300 £300
Total £3,565.41 £5,044.65 £1,479.24
I was minded to instruct MBFS to increase its refund by £1,479.24. This sum excluded any 
interest I might award.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.   
Putting things right
To put things right MBFS must 
Reimburse Miss R the deposit of *£4,085.23
Reimburse Miss R two monthly payments, *£659.42, made towards the car.
Pay Miss R £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment
to the time of reimbursement.  
MBFS should deduct sums already paid (partial deposit of £1,587.15 and payments of
£1978.26) from the final total amount to be paid to Miss R.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman