DRN-3242951
The complaint
Ms R (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms R was advanced 5 home collected loans between February 2020 and December 2020. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 04/02/2020 04/06/2020 34 £10.00
2 £300.00 04/06/2020 08/12/2020 34 £15.00
3 £100.00 02/09/2020 15/10/2020 34 £5.00
4 £100.00 06/11/2020 outstanding 34 £5.00
5 £400.00 08/12/2020 outstanding 34 £20.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped the 
cost would be greater. For examples when loans 2 and 3 were running at the same time 
Ms Rs commitment to Morses was £20 per week.
Ms R has had some problems repaying her final two loans and the statement of account 
provided by Morses shows an outstanding balance remains due. 
Following a complaint by Ms Rs representative to Morses it issued its final response letter in 
September 2021. In it, Morses explained that it had carried out proportionate checks before 
granting these loans and it was reasonable to lend.  
Ms Rs representative didnt agree with the outcome and instead referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator who didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that it was reasonable for Morses to have advanced loans 1  4. However, she concluded 
that given loan 5 was taken on the same day loan 2 was repaid and it was the largest capital 
loan to date that Morses needed to have carried out further checks before this loan was 
advanced. 
But she couldnt conclude Morses was wrong to lend this loan because she didnt have any 
information about Ms Rs financial position at the time the loan was advanced. Finally, she 
hadnt seen anything to suggest that the loans were inherently unsustainable for 
Ms R. 
Ms Rs representative didnt agree with the assessment. In response, it said that Ms R was 
having financial difficulties when these loans were approved especially in the months leading 
up to the first loan. 
It also provided copies of Ms Rs bank statements from November and December 2019.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Rs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
Loans 1  4
It looks like that, for all of these loans, Morses carried out the same sort of checks. Morses 
has shown that for each of these loans it asked Ms R for details of her income, which she 
declared to be around £500 per week for loans 1  3 and for loan 4 she declared an income 
of around £461 per week.  In addition to this, Morses asked Ms R for details of her expenditure, and she declared this 
to be between £238 and £354 per week. This left a declared disposable income of at least 
£107, which was more than enough to afford the largest weekly commitment for these loans 
of £25. 
Morses has also told us it wouldve carried out a credit search before at least the first loan 
was provided and Morses has provided a summary of the results that it was provided at the 
time. 
Ive reviewed these results, to see whether there was anything contained within it that 
wouldve given Morses cause for concern. It was aware that Ms R had a fairly low amount of 
debt of just under £3,000. She had a total of 9 active credit accounts of which 2 had a zero 
balance. It was aware of some defaults, but these seem to have been applied around two 
years before loan 1 was granted. 
So having looked at that, there isnt anything that I can see from around the time these loans 
were approved that may have altered Morses decision to either have declined the loan 
applications or have prompted it to carry out further, more in-depth checks. 
For these loans loan I think Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms R 
was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent 
seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any financial 
problems Ms R mightve been having. Or anything else that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained and approve these loans. 
I accept that from looking at the bank statements provided by Ms Rs representative that 
Morses wouldve had to think very carefully before advancing these loans. But, as this was 
early on in the lending relationship I dont think it wouldve been proportionate or reasonable 
for Morses to have started to verifying the information Ms R had provided  which means I 
dont think Morses needed to go as far or was expected to request bank statements at this 
point in time. 
So, taking everything into account, for these loans, I think Morses carried out proportionate 
checks, and these checks showed it that Ms R was likely to be able to afford the weekly 
repayments she was committed to repaying. Therefore, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint 
about these loans. 
Loan 5
The adjudicator concluded for this loan that further checks needed to have been carried out 
and Morses needed to have a thorough understanding of Ms Rs financial situation. 
I agree with this, for much the same reason as the adjudicator. Ms R had now returned on 
the same day loan 2 was repaid to borrow her largest capital loan. Loan 4 was also 
outstanding that increased Ms Rs weekly repayment to £25 per week. There was also no 
time, since loan 1 was granted that Ms R wasnt indebted to Morses. 
So, Morses needed to consider these factors when deciding what it needed to do in order to 
make sure it carried out a proportionate check before the loan was advanced. 
Ms R had declared a larger income of £654 and a slight increase in expenditure compared to 
loan 4  of £493. But when this loan was approved Morses may have believed that Ms R had sufficient disposable income of £130 per week to afford the repayments she was 
committed to making. 
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Ive already explained 
some of those factors that Morses was aware of at the time this loan was approved, for 
example it was Ms Rs largest loan to date. Thinking about these factors, I cant fairly say a 
proportionate check has been carried out.  
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms R declared to it 
about her income and expenditure. 
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Rs actual financial position to 
ensure loan five was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at Ms Rs bank statements and/or Ms Rs credit report 
full. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any 
other information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Rs general financial 
position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that 
Ms R couldnt afford the loan. 
Ms R has provided copies of bank statements from November and December 2019 but I 
cant rely on these to show what her financial situation was at the time when loan 5 was 
advanced because they are from too long before  around 12 months. So, I dont know what 
further checks may have highlighted about her financial situation at the time this loan was 
approved. 
Ive also considered the full credit file that Ms Rs representative has provided the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I would point out that the report says it was searched on 3 March 
2020. From this I take this to the be the date the report has been generated. Which is 
several months before loan 5 was granted. So, the credit report is of limited use because it 
may not show all of the credit commitment that were outstanding when loan 5 was 
advanced. 
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest 
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 5. Im therefore concluding that I think it was reasonable for 
Morses to have advanced this loan. 
An outstanding balance remains on the final two loans, and Id remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Ms R fairly and with forbearance. 
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for Ms R, but I hope my explanation as been 
helpful for her to understand why I have reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Rs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman