DRN-3031660
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008. 
This was a further advance used to consolidate debts. Mr and Mrs G had taken their original 
main mortgage in 2004, with a further advance in 2006. PPI was taken with these two 
mortgages, and the PPI only covered the payments on the further advance of 2008. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they have no memory of being offered PPI and would have turned it down 
if it had been offered. They say it is not logical that they would have refused PPI for the first 
two loans, and yet have accepted it for the third loan. They say they didnt need PPI as they 
could have relied on family help if they needed it to pay the mortgage. 
I am conscious that this all happened about 13 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of everything from that long ago. So I cant be sure how 
much I can rely on their recollections now, without supporting evidence. 
And there is in fact documentary evidence to support Lloyds assertion that Mr and Mrs G 
agreed to the PPI. There is a record of Lloyds recommending the PPI to them, and there is a 
signed PPI application form, along with a signed direct debit mandate for the premiums to be 
paid to the insurance company. So I do think its likely Mr and Mrs G did agreed to the PPI, 
even if they cant now remember it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Gs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs G received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs G would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr and Mrs G couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs G would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs G to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mr and Mrs G took the PPI. I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
would have agreed to the PPI without a basic understanding of the costs, and I think even 
full information is unlikely to have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman