DRN-4004625
The complaint
Mr A complains about the damage charges Mitsubishi HC capital UK plc applied when he 
returned the car he acquired through a hire agreement. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr A under a hire agreement with Mitsubishi in 2017. The car was 
collected from him in July 2022 when the agreement ended. It was inspected by a third party 
on behalf of Mitsubishi on 22 July 2022. The inspection report identified damage to several 
areas on the car. Mr A said the claims of damage were spurious. He said Mitsubishi made 
claims for damage to an area that had not been touched by anyone since the vehicle had 
been delivered to him. He said any repair work that had been carried out on the vehicle was 
done so by the insurance company.
Mr A raised a complaint with Mitsubishi. He said he was told on the phone that the vehicle 
would be re-inspected upon receipt at their facility, to assess whether the charges were fair. 
Mr A said he was subsequently told that this was a desktop review and not a reinspection of 
the vehicle. Mr A challenged the damages report and said he allowed the vehicle to be 
collected on the understanding that it would be reinspected. 
In its final response Mitsubishi said it had followed all of its processes and commitments to 
Mr A and was unable to uphold his complaint. It said the outstanding balance for the end of 
contract damage charges was £1,285.25. Mitsubishi also said that as Mr A had found the 
inspector unpleasant it would apply £100 to his credit agreement by way of compensation.
Mr A wasn't satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded 
that most of the damages fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines and remain 
chargeable. She determined that two of the charges had not been applied in line with the 
guidelines and recommended they be removed. Mr A didn't agree and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. He made some further comments to which I have responded 
below as appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr A but having done so I agree with the 
investigator's conclusions for the reasons I've outlined below. 
The car was supplied to Mr A under a hire agreement with Mitsubishi which said: 
you agree to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible 
to us for any damage caused to or deterioration of the vehicle otherwise than through 
fair wear and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The car was inspected by Mitsubishi on 22 July 2022 and damage to the car was 
identified.
Mr A isn't disputing the damage to the alloys.
I've examined the report provided by the third party when it inspected the car. The 
report includes several photos, which show the use of a reflector board and 
measuring tool where appropriate to highlight any damage or flawed paintwork 
repair. I've compared them to the industry standard fair wear and tear guidelines from 
BVRLA. 
I consider the damage is more than would reasonably be considered fair wear and 
tear in accordance with the guidelines for the following items:
Broken ashtray £40.25
Front bumper dirt in paint £175
Front bumper misaligned £50
Front left door rippled finish £140
Quarter panel left rippled finish £140
Rear bumper dull paint £75
Rear door right poor repair £140
Front door right poor repair £140
With respect to the
Rear bumper misaligned £50 - I'm unable to see any misalignment and 
conclude that this charge should be removed.
Rear left door rippled finish £140 - I can't see any evidence of poor repair. 
There is no distortion in the reflector and the finish appears to be smooth. 
Therefore this charge should be removed.
Mr A has said that he shouldnt have to pay for something he hasnt caused. He said 
there has never been any repair work to the right-hand side of the vehicle, and any 
faults within the paintwork must have been present at the point of delivery. 
Mr A said Mitsubishi should have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the damage 
wasnt present on the vehicle at the point of delivery. He said there was an issue with 
the vehicle at the point of delivery  one of the door seals was torn and this was 
reported to Mitsubishi at the time. Mr A said if there was one fault present at delivery, 
what is there to say there were no other faults.
I do understand Mr As frustration as the car was new at the point of supply and Im 
not disputing what he says. We are an informal resolution service and where 
evidence is missing, unclear or disputed I must decide based on the balance of 
probability, that is what I believe most likely to have happened. The evidence 
provided shows a rippled finish on the right side paintwork. This indicates a poor 
finish. So in the absence of any evidence to say otherwise I think it likely there has 
been a poor repair and the charge still stands. 
Mr A said he didnt understand how the left-hand side of the vehicle could have one 
panel which is considered acceptable and two panels which are not, when both 
panels were repaired at the same time. I can only comment on what I can see. This 
is something Mr A would need to raise with the garage responsible for the repair.  Mr A said the rear bumper repair was carried out by his insurance company. He said 
he couldnt believe that an insurance company would use unacceptable paint. It 
wouldnt be fair of me to hold Mitsubishi responsible for any poor repairs carried out 
by the insurance company. If Mr A remains concerned about this he would need to 
raise it with his insurance company.
Mr A went on to say the vehicle was not subjected to the level of scrutiny upon 
receipt that it was at collection. Again I do understand Mr As frustration. I draw his 
attention to the hire agreement. It says:
o3. Your obligations concerning the vehicle:
3.1 You agree: (a) to inspect the Vehicle on delivery and promptly notify us if: 
(a) the Vehicle does not correspond to the Vehicle specified in the Agreement 
or (b) the Vehicle is defective in any way. Failure to promptly notify us of a 
Vehicle defect may affect the rights we have against the supplier of the 
Vehicle;
Im satisfied by signing the hire agreement Mr A agreed to the terms and conditions 
of collecting and returning the vehicle and Im also satisfied Mitsubishi followed the 
fair wear and tear guidelines.
Mr A said he called into question the inspection process at the time of collection, and 
was assured the vehicle would be re-inspected, not that the evidence would be 
reviewed. He said there is a fundamental difference between the two. Ive read the 
contact notes from Mitsubishi. While I can see that there may have been a 
misunderstanding about whether the car would be reinspected I cant see any 
evidence that the inspection wasnt carried out properly in the first instance. 
Mitsubishi awarded Mr A £100 for the poor customer service which I think is fair 
under the circumstances. 
Mr A sent a sample of reviews for the vehicle inspection company as seen on the 
internet, which, he says, are consistent with the complaints he raised. This isnt 
something I can consider when making my decision as my role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of this complaint only. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should remove the charges for the rear 
bumper misalignment (£50) and for the rear left door finish (£140). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman