DRN-1653580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy at the length of time Lloyds Bank PLC took to grant consent to a 
second charge on their property. Lloyds acknowledged it had made a customer service error 
and offered £200 compensation, but Mr and Mrs R consider this to be inadequate. To settle 
the complaint, they want Lloyds to cover the cost of their rent and council tax for the period 
September-December 2019. They are also asking Lloyds to pay compensation for stress 
and embarrassment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were having building work done on their property (which was mortgaged to 
Lloyds), as a result of which they moved into temporary rented accommodation in February 
2019, expecting to be back in the property by the end of August 2019. As is often the case 
with renovations, additional work was needed to deal with unforeseen problems that arose 
and to ensure compliance with building regulations. Mr and Mrs R initially asked Lloyds if it 
could give them a second mortgage, but Lloyds wasnt able to do so.
Consequently, in July 2019 Mr and Mrs R applied, through a broker, for bridging finance with 
a lender I will call PM. The finance was to be secured as a second charge on the property. 
Lloyds consent was needed for this.
Lloyds accepts that it received the request for consent on 2 August 2019 (a Friday). It also 
received a request for a redemption statement. Lloyds sent out the redemption statement to 
Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors immediately, but overlooked the second charge request until the 
solicitors chased it up on 15 August 2019 (a Thursday and nine working days later). Lloyds 
contacted PM that same day to say that it granted consent, but PM has explained (in its final 
response letter to Mr and Mrs R) that Lloyds hadnt filled in a questionnaire or replied in a 
format which was accepted to PM.
Mr R chased Lloyds and was told by Lloyds that it had consented. Mr R contacted PM on 
19 August 2019 (a Monday, two working days later), and PM contacted Lloyds again that 
same day, when Lloyds acknowledged that the letter sent on 15 August 2019 wasnt in its 
normal format and the consent would be sent again. PM followed this up with Lloyds on 27 
August 2019 (the Tuesday after the Bank Holiday, and five working days later). Consent was 
granted on 29 August 2019. PM confirmed that the bridging finance loan was completed on 
30 August 2019.
Mr and Mrs R complained both to Lloyds and to PM about the delays in completing the 
bridging finance. They say that, as a result of the delay, they werent able to return to their 
property in time for the new school year (on 3 September 2019) but instead had to stay in 
rented accommodation for another three months. Mr and Mrs R want Lloyds to reimburse 
them for the rent and council tax they had to pay for September-December 2019 inclusive, a 
total of £4,059. 
Lloyds said it had responded to PMs request for consent received on 2 August 2019 within 
its service level agreement timescale of 15 days. But the bank did acknowledge that Mr and 
Mrs R had been caused some trouble and upset. Lloyds offered compensation of £200, 
which Mr and Mrs R rejected.
The complaint was brought to us where an investigator looked at it. He was sympathetic to 
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, but didnt think that Lloyds was required to reimburse Mr and 
Mrs R for their rent and council tax.
Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Initially they disputed 
Lloyds had contacted PM on 15 August 2019, but this was later confirmed by PM in its final 
response letter dated 5 March 2020, a copy of which Mr and Mrs R sent to us. 
On 8 April 2020 Mr and Mrs R said they would be requesting copies of call transcripts from 
Lloyds and providing these to us, but these have not been received and more than seven 
months have now passed. In the circumstances, given that we are required to resolve cases 
in as timely a fashion as possible, the case has now been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below.
There is some contradiction in what Mr and Mrs R say happened, what Lloyds records show 
and what PM has said in its final response letter. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I must decide what I think it most likely to have happened, 
based on the balance of probabilities and what the available evidence shows. 
After reviewing the evidence, I think there was a mistake by Lloyds, but I dont think this 
gives rise to the losses Mr and Mrs R are claiming.
Lloyds has confirmed that it received the request for consent to the second charge on 
2 August 2019. The bank has said it sent its consent on 15 August 2019, but PM says this 
wasnt in its correct format and that it contacted Lloyds about this. Lloyds notes show that 
what PM says is correct, and that on 19 August 2019 it was asked to send out a redemption 
statement, another consent and a response to a questionnaire. This was actioned by Lloyds 
on 28 August 2019, six working days later (taking into account the Bank Holiday).
I think Lloyds didnt handle the second charge request as well as it could have done. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs R were caused some inconvenience as a result. But Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds is responsible for the additional rent and council tax for the period 
September-December 2019.
Generally, the legal principal is that financial losses claimed by one party have to be 
reasonably foreseeable to the party which is being asked to pay them, and must flow directly 
from the actions of Party B. In laymans terms, Party A asks Party B to do something and 
explains  at the time the  request is made  what the potential consequences are if Party B 
doesnt do what theyre asked to do.
In the context of this complaint, in order to find that Lloyds is liable to cover Mr and Mrs Rs 
expenses for September-December 2019, I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds was told 
at the time the second charge request was received on 2 August 2019 that delay in completing the bridging loan by a certain date would result in the builders leaving the site to 
go to other jobs, and that this would have consequences for completion of the building work 
on Mr and Mrs Rs property, resulting in them having to stay in rented accommodation.
Lloyds records show that when Mr R spoke to the bank on 28 August 2019, he explained 
that he had had to extend his stay in rented accommodation for another couple of weeks  
not the three months Mr and Mrs R are now claiming. Mr R also explained that he had 
missed the August payment on his mortgage due to having to pay out for other expenses 
related to the building work. Mr R was unhappy about having to tell his builders that payment 
would be delayed.
On 2 September 2019 Mr R told Lloyds that he was still unable to pay his builders. But, 
according to PM, the bridging loan completed on 30 August 2019, so by 2 September 2019 
Mr and Mrs R already had the funds available to them to pay the builders.
But there is nothing in the complaint file to show that in early August, when the request for 
consent to the second charge was made, Mr and Mrs R put Lloyds on notice that there was 
a contingent timescale relating to the builders which Lloyds needed to adhere to. Given this, 
Im not persuaded that the expenses Mr and Mrs R are now claiming from Lloyds were a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of Lloyds, on 15 August 2019, not filling out the correct 
questionnaire for PM to approve the second charge application.
In the circumstances, I find that Lloyds isnt responsible for the expenses Mr and Mrs R 
incurred for accommodation and council tax for the period September-December 2019.
Lloyds has agreed its customer service had fallen short. The bank offered £200 
compensation for trouble and upset. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs R want to be compensated 
for embarrassment and for the stress of what they went through. 
I have no doubt this was a stressful time for Mr and Mrs R  theyd been out of their home 
for several months, and had to undertake expensive remedial work on the building which 
they hadnt anticipated at the start of the project and which they hadnt budgeted for. But in 
all the circumstances, I think the £200 offered by Lloyds is proportionate, fair and reasonable 
to compensate for the level of customer service provided. I dont think the bank is required to 
pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the 
compensation of £200 already offered by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable. I simply 
leave it to Mr and Mrs R to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of their 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman