DRN-2353872
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Alan Steel (Asset Management) Limited (Alan Steel) failed to act 
in a timely manner in relation to his investment in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF). 
He feels this caused him financial loss as the fund was suspended and subsequently wound 
up.
What happened
Mr D invested with Alan Steel initially in 2014. He was assessed as being an investor who 
had a balanced attitude to risk. The investment in the WEIF represented a small proportion 
of Mr Ds overall portfolio and while this proportion changed over the years it still remained at 
a relatively low level.
Mr D says he raised concerns in 2018 about the performance of the WEIF but says his 
adviser had reassured him to remain invested in the fund. Mr D has said he had further 
concerns in June 2019 at which point he asked his adviser to liquidate his WEIF holdings. 
However, by this point the fund had just been suspended so this wasnt possible.
Mr D has said that Alan Steel lacked the appropriate level of insight and risk management of 
the WEIF and didnt take appropriate or timely actions to protect his investments.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. While 
he appreciated Mr Ds position, he was satisfied that Alan Steel had given the advice to stay 
invested in the WEIF in good faith and based on what it knew and felt was likely to happen at 
that point in time. He felt the suspension of the fund couldnt have been predicted by Alan 
Steel and while Mr D had been adversely affected by this he didnt feel this was because of 
any failure by Alan Steel.
Mr D didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that Alan Steel hadnt acted 
in his best interest. He also reiterated that he had indicated his concerns over the fund a 
year before it was suspended yet Alan Steel had advised him to maintain his investment. He 
also mentioned that at this point in time he needed a lump sum of cash and so Alan Steel 
should have used the WEIF holdings to provide this. He also felt that as Alan Steel was, by 
its own admission, in close and regular contact with the fund managers it should have been 
fully aware of the poor situation of the fund.
The investigator considered Mr Ds comments but wasnt persuaded to change his initial 
outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint.
Initially, I must clarify that while Mr D has mentioned his wife in his complaint, as she also 
held a portfolio of investments with Alan Steel which included a small proportion in the WEIF, 
their investments are held in separate names. Therefore, they must be dealt with separately 
so this decision is focused only on Mr Ds investments.
Mr D is unhappy with Alan Steels advice which he says essentially reassured him about the 
WEIF and staying invested in the fund. However, hindsight can often play a big role in these 
types of complaints, so for me to decide Mr Ds complaint I need to look at what Alan Steel 
would have reasonably known at the time about the fund and whether its 
advice/recommendations were reasonable in light of this.
No adviser is able to tell what will happened to a fund in the future and unfortunately no 
adviser will make the right decision every time. It is obviously hoped that they do and this is 
what they are paid for but ultimately all an adviser can do is base their advice on what they 
know of the relevant fund and markets at the time.
In this case the WEIF was managed by a fund manager who had a long history of 
investment success. He was widely known as one of the best fund managers in recent 
times. And while past performance isnt a definite indicator of future performance it is 
reasonable that a managers track record is taken into account by advisers and investors 
alike.
Alan Steel has said that it met with the fund manager in 2019 and kept a close eye on the 
fund but based on what it seems to have been told by the fund manager and the assurances 
in relation to the liquidity in the fund it remained supportive of it. Alan Steel was obviously 
aware of the performance troubles of the fund but in my view, it seems to have explored this 
further and went straight to fund manager to understand what was happening and why. If the 
fund manager told Alan Steel information that may not have been accurate I dont think its 
reasonable for Alan Steel to have known this at the time  all Alan Steel could do was to 
take what it was being told at face value and base its advice on that whilst also weighing up 
what it knew. 
I have no reason to doubt that if Alan Steel had felt something dubious what happening 
within the fund that it would have made different decision and there was no benefit to Alan 
Steel keeping Mr D invested in the WEIF when it was struggling unless it truly believed the 
fund would recover.
Further to this I havent seen anything to suggest it knew any more than what was out there 
in the public domain so it would seem Alan Steel did what it felt was the right thing at the 
time. And this isnt something I can decide was wrong when considering what was known 
back then at the point in time.
I know Mr D has said that he had mentioned in 2018 he needed some cash for an upcoming 
holiday and has queried why his holdings in the WEIF werent used to provide this. But 
looking at the information provided by Alan Steel, while I can see this was discussed and the 
adviser had suggested liquidating some of the holdings in WEIF, and other funds, it appears 
the confirmation to liquidate wasnt provided by Mr D until June 2019. No adviser is in a 
position to suggest liquidation of funds unless a consumer has requested this. And in this 
case it appears that liquidation of some assets wasnt confirmed until almost a year later so it 
doesnt seem to me Alan Steel failed to follow any instructions from Mr D in this regard. 
Overall while I fully appreciate Mr Ds position, I havent seen anything that leads me to 
safely conclude Alan Steel did anything wrong. Yes, its advice to remain in the invested 
ultimately turned out to be financially detrimental to Mr D but I dont think this was due to any wrong doing on Alan Steels part.  I also am of the view that as Mr D has said he had 
concerns over the fund as early as 2018 from what he had picked up through industry press, 
he could have made the decision to withdraw from the WEIF if he felt strongly enough even 
if Alan Steel was encouraging him to remain invested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman