DRN-1696134
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr R says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr R took out an MPPI policy to cover a mortgage in 2004. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which only covered Mr R.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E and Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs E and Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs E and Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons.
The PPI started about three months after the mortgage did. So, it seems likely it wasnt sold 
at the same time. Mrs E and Mr Rs testimony about what happened also suggests they 
were given a choice and chose to take out the PPI  albeit based on the advice they were 
given. So, I think St Andrews made Mrs E and Mr R aware that they had a choice about 
buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. 
St Andrews recommended the MPPI to Mrs E and Mr R, and it seems to have been right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr R had some sick pay 
and redundancy entitlement through his work and some savings. But the PPI wouldve 
covered the mortgage repayments, plus 25% extra to help with bills, for up to 24 months if 
he couldnt work. Thats much longer than his sick pay and savings wouldve lasted, and 
wouldve meant he could use those for other things. 
I think St Andrews couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mrs E and Mr R would still have bought it. 
Its possible St Andrews didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs E 
and Mr R dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulator's rules on high levels of commission and profit share only apply to lenders. St 
Andrew's is the insurer of the PPI, so those rules don't apply to this complaint. 
Ive taken into account Mrs E and Mr Rs comments, including what theyve said about being 
given the impression that taking the PPI would help the mortgage get approved. But these 
points dont change my conclusion. Given the mortgage started about three months before the PPI, it seems likely that the mortgage was already approved by the time they agreed to 
take the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs E and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman