DRN-1515747
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Unum Ltd has declined a claim she made on her employers income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs D is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy. They are 
representing her in relation to this complaint but Ill refer to all arguments and comments as 
being made by Mrs D. 
Mrs D became absent from work in September 2017. In December 2017 she submitted a 
claim form for income protection. She said that the pressures of her role lead to flare ups of 
her ulcerative colitis and bleeding of the colon as well as oral and perineal ulceration. 
Unum declined the claim, saying that the policy definition of incapacity hadnt been met. 
They said that Mrs Ds absence was due to a longstanding gastrointestinal issue for which 
shed been prescribed medication before she became absent from work. Unum also said 
that there had been an improvement in Mrs Ds condition and that there wasnt evidence to 
show that her functionality was affected to an extent that it would prevent her from carrying 
out her insured occupation. 
Mrs D asked Unum to review their decision and provided further evidence from Mrs Ds 
consultant. Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim saying that the additional 
information didnt provide a medical reason why Mrs D would functionally be unable to 
perform the duties of her insured occupation. 
Mrs D complained to Unum. In their final response Unum said that their decision to decline 
the claim was correct. They said that the medical evidence reports that Mrs D remained well 
and that the cause of her absence was to prevent a recurrence of her longstanding 
condition. Unum also said that there was no evidence to support any restrictions or 
limitations throughout the deferred period and a claim cannot be admitted on the grounds of 
a possible relapse. Unhappy, Mrs D complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. He 
said that the medical evidence suggested Mrs Ds condition was stable and the policy didnt 
provider cover for prevention of a relapse. So he didnt think Unum it was unreasonable for 
Unum to decline the claim. 
Mrs D didnt agree. In summary she said: 
The letter from the consultant hadnt been properly considered
The consultant had expressed a clear and unequivocal view that she was unable to 
work  he was conversant with the nature of Mrs Ds role 
Unum hasnt provided any medical evidence in support of their position and to 
challenge the consultants conclusions
The policy terms dont allow for Unum to decline the claim on the basis that a 
condition is well controlled. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has made a number of points in relation to her claim. Ill only refer to those which I 
think are central to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say that benefit will be paid when a member is unable to 
work due to illness or injury. The definition of incapacity is decided by the level of cover on 
the policy. Mrs Ds policy covers her insured occupation so the definition of incapacity says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are: 
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and 
substantial duties of the insured occupation and are
Not performing any occupation. 
Has Unum unfairly declined the claim?  
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
Its for Mrs D to show that she has a valid claim, not for Unum to show that she doesnt. The 
available medical evidence indicates that by the end of the deferred period Mrs Ds medical 
condition was well controlled. 
In her claim form Mrs D said that the pressures of her role led to flare ups of her condition. 
Thats supported by the medical evidence as shes reported this to her treating team as well. 
Her treating team say she shouldnt return to work to avoid a relapse. But thats not 
something thats covered by the policy which has a clear and specific definition of incapacity. 
In this case the available evidence indicates it is most likely that Mrs D was no longer 
incapacitated by the end of the deferred period. Her consultant wrote: 
Mrs D was reviewed by myself in clinic on 17 October 2017. At that time Mrs D was 
in total symptomatic remission and on no Prednisolone. She is continuing with the 
Infliximab infusions as planned. In fact, from August 2017 until 17 September 2018, 
Mrs D has remained symptomatically entirely well and has no required courses of 
oral Prednisolone and there had been no flares in her chronic colitis until that point.He went on to say: 
It is my view that should Mrs D return to work as [redacted] she will relapse with the 
symptoms from her chronic inflammatory bowel condition requiring further courses of 
high dose Prednisolone, with potential adverse effects on her long-term health. Long 
term use of Prednisolone can lead to osteoarthritis, hypertension, diabetes mellitus 
and dyslipidaemia 
So, whilst the consultant said Mrs D shouldnt go back to work I think this it is reasonable to 
conclude that this was on the basis that it would avoid a relapse of her condition, not 
because she was experiencing it at the time. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Unum to conclude that the flare up of her long-term condition had ended and that she didnt 
meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
The consultant wrote a letter supporting Mrs Ds inability to return to work but this doesnt 
automatically mean that the claim should be accepted. The letter indicates that he was 
familiar with the general nature of Mrs Ds role but he didnt provide a detailed assessment of 
her functionality in her specific workplace or explain in detail what her functionality was 
during the deferred period.  
Mrs D also said that Unum hadnt provided any medical evidence to rebut her consultants 
report. But, as I outlined above, its for Mrs D to show she has a valid claim. Ive reviewed 
the claim notes relating to Mrs Ds file and I can see that Unums medical team have had an 
input on Mrs Ds case on a number of occasions.
In particular, I note a detailed medical review was carried out in May 2018 shortly before 
Unum decided to maintain the decision to decline the claim in June 2018. The outcome of 
that medical review informed Unum that there was no evidence to support any restrictions or 
limitations throughout the deferred period. And that was the reason Unum maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Therefore, I think Unum have taken reasonable steps to 
assess the available evidence, including obtaining input from their medical team. So, I dont 
think theyve acted unreasonably by declining the claim.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman