DRN-3839754
The complaint
Mr E complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement known as a 
SIPP, in 2018. He says the advice has caused him a financial loss.
Mr E primarily dealt with a different firm  an independent financial adviser who he dealt with 
for wider aspects of financial advice. But only certain financial businesses have the 
accreditation to advise on DB pension transfers, and because Mr E was contemplating such 
a transfer, he was referred to Tuto Money Limited which is now responsible for answering 
this complaint. 
To keep things simple Ill therefore refer mainly to Tuto Money. 
Mr E also had a defined contribution (DC) pension which he also transferred to the SIPP. 
However, this isnt part of the complaint. To be clear then, Im only addressing the complaint 
about the DB pension here.
What happened
Mr E was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer, a 
large company. Hed accrued around 6 years worth of benefits and in 2018, it seems Mr E 
became concerned about a company from a similar sector which had got into financial 
difficulties. Mr E therefore wanted to enquire about his own deferred scheme and whether he 
ought to consider transferring out to a different scheme, such as a personal pension plan. He 
was also interest in drawing some money from the pension in due course.
The information gathered about Mr E at the time was broadly as follows:
Mr E was 52 years old, divorced and had no others financially dependent on him. He 
earned around £30,000 per year (gross). He didnt have many savings but was said 
to have around £23,000 in debts comprising various borrowings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es DB scheme was around 
£88,234. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr Es DC pension, which isnt being complained about here, had a value of around 
£56,000.
Mr E complained to Tuto Money in 2022 saying that it had facilitated a transfer away from his 
DB pension scheme in March 2018. He said this had caused him a financial loss.
However, Tuto Money says that in its dealings with Mr E, it told him that transferring away 
from his DB scheme wasnt recommended. It says it issued a suitability report with a 
recommendation against transferring away. It says Mr E was an insistent client  a term 
used within the industry when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them 
by their adviser. Tuto Money maintains that transferring away on this basis was Mr Es 
decision and that he was given warnings about what he was doing. It also says that it 
doesnt think the DB pension transfer has caused Mr E any loss anyway.
The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They thought Tuto Money hadnt treated Mr E correctly when 
categorising him as an insistent client. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COB) at the time, that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto Money should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests (COB 5.3.29G  
since renumbered).
Also at the time of the advice, there was regulatory rules and guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. Ill refer to this further down. But there were also general rules in the 
regulators Handbook, which required Tuto Money to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COB required Tuto Money to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Tuto Moneys 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr E had to have understood the consequences of 
going against any recommendation it might have made.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mr Es 
complaint. My decision is along broadly the same lines as given by our investigator.
The financial viability of transferring his pension
Normally when examining a DB pension transfer, Id start off the process by assessing 
whether transferring away could be justified from a financial comparison perspective. This 
would usually involve looking at and considering the growth assumptions that were 
reasonable at the time and whether the transferred funds could grow to such an extent to 
make the transfer worthwhile. 
Tuto Money referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to the critical yield rate. 
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. In Mr Es case, the critical yield for a retirement at 65 was relatively high, 
at 8.33%. And if taking a tax-free lump sum when he retired and a reduced annual pension, 
the critical yield was 5.97%. If comparing against an earlier retirement, at the age of 55 for 
example, the critical yield rates were much higher  over 20%. So, if transferring was to be 
financially viable, Id need confidence that these types of growth rates could be achieved 
over future years.
However, none of these things really matter in this particular case. This is because Tuto 
Money said in its recommendation that Mr E ought not to transfer his DB pension. Theres no 
dispute about that.On 8 February 2018 Tuto Money wrote to Mr E and told him it would be highly unlikely that 
this level of growth would be maintained over a period of time. It also said he would lose the 
guarantees and benefits associated with his DB scheme. This was contained in a suitability 
report.
So, what Tuto Money was doing was advising Mr E against transferring away because this 
wasnt suitable for him. And having said this both at the time of the advice and when Mr E 
raised his complaint to our Service, it would clearly be hard for it now to say transferring was 
suitable.
The main crux of this complaint is therefore whether Tuto Money acted improperly by 
facilitating the pension transfer, nonetheless. For this, Ive looked at what happened next 
and whether what Tuto Money did was fair and reasonable. 
Was Mr E really an insistent client? 
Tuto Money categorised Mr E as an insistent client; this is a client that wishes to take a 
different course of action from the one recommended and wants the business to facilitate the 
transaction against its advice. 
Under the rules in place at the time, the regulator set out what it expected in these types of 
case. COBS 9.5A set out the key steps for advisers to take with respect to insistent clients. 
COBS 9.5A.3 says:
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, and 
having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is able to 
understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms personal 
recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
COBS 9.5A.4 further states:
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
So, firms like Tuto Money had a number of both general and specific responsibilities when 
dealing with such clients. To be clear, Tuto Money went on to facilitate and transact the DB pension transfer for Mr E. However, despite what Mr E might have thought he wanted at the 
time, Tuto Moneys job here, as a regulated financial adviser, was to provide advice that was 
clear and in his best interests. In particular, Tuto Money should have been clear that if it was 
not recommending a particular transaction or course of action, then the risks of what Mr E 
was apparently interested in were pointed out during the course of the advice.
I dont think Tuto Money adequately did this. It seems to me, for example, that Tuto Money 
dealt with Mr Es advice in a very hands off fashion. Communication appeared to be 
through his IFA, rather than directly with Mr E himself. And I agree with our investigator in 
that based on what Ive seen, it appears Tuto Money had little to no direct communication 
with him.
The regulator requires firms to appropriately get to know their client, so its difficult to see 
how Tuto Money did this without discussing the matter with Mr E directly or placing itself in 
an approachable position should he have questions about what, after all, was a large sum of 
money. Instead, Tuto Money appeared to rely on information gathered by the IFA which I 
think means it failed to comprehensively and directly work with Mr E to ensure its actions 
were in his best interests. Ill caveat this with saying I dont think its impossible to deal with a 
client through a third party, but in the circumstances of what Ive seen in this particular case, 
I think Tuto Money needed to really understand Mr Es thought processes and requirements. 
I also think the evidence gathered during the fact find process ought to have been clear to 
Tuto Money that Mr E had limited pensions knowledge and no experience of investing in 
money market funds. I think it should have also been apparent that Mr E had become very 
anxious about the collapse of a similar, although in reality, unrelated company. So there was 
no real reason to suggest his former employer, let alone his deferred DB scheme, would be 
compromised in the way Mr E seemed to be fearing. In my view, this all required 
communication and I think this hands off approach was unsuitable and inappropriate, and 
what followed demonstrated that Tuto Money failed in its duty to Mr E. 
I say this because the first suitability report was issued on 8 February 2018 and then sent to 
Mr Es IFA the next day. Tuto Money said Mr Es IFA  rather than Tuto Money itself  had a 
conversation with Mr E regarding the decision not to transfer, between 10 February and 12 
February. It said this was evidenced by an email Tuto Money received back from the IFA on 
12th February 2018. 
Tuto Moneys position here is that it received this email back from the IFA which it says was 
clear; it provided three reasons as to why Mr E still wanted to go ahead with the DB pension 
transfer, that he therefore wished to be treated as an insistent client, and that he wanted to 
go ahead and transfer away from his DB scheme. The three reasons given were around: 
fears over the reliability and stability of the DB scheme; a desire for more personal control 
over the pension fund investments; and Mr Es status as a divorced man.
Tuto Money says that the reply it received, although from the IFA, was in Mr Es own 
words. However, in my view, it cant be verified that what was on the email accurately 
conveyed Mr Es full understanding of the consequences of transferring. So, saying this was 
in Mr Es own words isnt strictly true. 
More importantly, I dont think this fulfilled the regulators expectation when it directed that 
such corresponding should be in the clients own words. What weve actually been sent is a 
copy of the email reply from the IFA apparently speaking for Mr E, implying that he wanted 
to go ahead with the transfer, nevertheless. But this IFA was not accredited to conduct DB 
transfer advice. Nor can I be sure that the IFA didnt stand to inherit ongoing business by 
subsequently advising Mr E on the agency of the transferred funds  I think its more likely 
they did. And while the email does indeed give some reasons for pushing ahead with the transfer process, I can see no reason why the dialog didnt take place with Mr E himself; 
these three points were all subject areas which I think Tuto Money ought to have 
comprehensively re-engaged with directly with Mr E.
Tuto Money says it then sent Mr E an addendum to the suitability report (on 14 February 
2018) re-iterating the recommendation not to transfer. It did pick up and refer to some of the 
issues Mr E was concerned about. But importantly, this addendum went straight into also 
recommending certain money market funds for Mr Es transferred pension. So what Tuto 
Money was effectively doing was this; on one had it was saying it didnt think he should 
transfer away, but on the other hand it went straight into recommending a number of fund 
selections for the transferred monies. 
Here was an opportunity for Tuto Money to really press home its rationale to Mr E and then 
give him time to seriously think about what he was thinking of doing. However, because the 
business went straight into the fund recommendation mode, I dont think this happened.
Tuto Money says that Mr E was given further warnings about transferring in the addendum 
document. It also says he ultimately signed a number of declarations, thus demonstrating his 
full understanding of what was taking place. For example, it says Mr E signed the 
recommendation report that quite clearly states he is going against the recommendation 
and wishes to be treated as an insistent client.
However, this simply isnt right. For the record, Mr E did not specifically sign any type of 
insistent client form which set out in his own words why he was intending to go against the 
initial advice. Instead, Tuto Money is actually referring to the declaration Mr E signed on the 
original suitability report. This was no more than a pre-formatted declaration of only three 
lines in which he ticked a box and signed to say hed been given the report. I also note, that 
in any event, Mr E didnt sign this until 21 February 2018 which is nine days after the email 
saying he was evidently insisting on pressing ahead with transferring. He signed a similar 
pre-formatted declaration in relation to the addendum advice, on the same date (21 
February). This, of course, means Mr E apparently asked to press ahead with transferring 
against advice, substantially before he even signed to ratify that hed received the two 
suitability reports outlining that advice.
Even if I discount this date anomaly, whilst the addendum report did contain some warnings 
about transferring, there appears to have been no direct dialog between Mr E and Tuto 
Money, where the advice could be explained in detail and the potential consequences 
thought through. I can see no credible reason why this should have been the case and it was 
a significant failure, in my view. 
As Tuto Money was being paid for providing regulated financial advice, which was of great 
importance to Mr E, it was inappropriate and unacceptable for it to be effectively standing 
behind the IFA and not dealing directly with Mr E. So I dont think Tuto Money genuinely 
engaged with the three areas of rationale for transferring which Mr E was apparently putting 
forward. And as Ive said, Tuto Money went onto make fund selection recommendations in 
the same document anyway.Suitability of investments
Tuto Money ultimately recommended that Mr E invest in funds within a personal pension 
arrangement. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr E, and he wasnt treated correctly regarding the insistent 
client rules and guidance, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr E should have been more comprehensively 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the new personal pension 
funds wouldnt have arisen if Tuto Money had followed the correct procedures.
Summary
I accept that Tuto Money began this process by correctly saying that transferring away from 
his DB scheme wasnt in Mr Es best interests. I also accept it provided a certain amount of 
information explaining why it had arrived at that view. Also, when Mr E expressed an 
apparent interest in transferring anyway, Tuto Money did issue some written warnings about 
him becoming an insistent client.
However, most of this dialog and information was third hand, communicated through an IFA 
who wasnt accredited in the DB transfer area. Tuto Money therefore did not act in either the 
letter or spirit of the guidance which required clients to express in their own words why 
they wanted to go against the advisers recommendation. It then issued an addendum to its 
suitability report and made specific recommendations about which money market funds to 
transfer his pension savings into. In my view, its suitability report containing the warnings 
was therefore undermined by the fund recommendations Tuto Money made in the same 
document.
Ive considered, of course, whether Mr E might have still transferred away from his DB 
scheme anyway. However, Mr E was reliant on financial advice. He wasnt experienced in 
these matters and hed also paid for this specific section of the advice. He wasnt yet at the 
age where he could access the transferred funds and there were other options open to him 
to access money in the way his objectives set out.
Tuto Money didnt get everything wrong. But ultimately, I dont think Tuto Money did enough 
to ensure Mr E understood that transferring away from his DB scheme wasnt in his best 
interests, or that he appreciated the potential consequences of doing this. 
The rules which the regulator issued were there for a reason and followed a long period of 
professional guidance and advice to firms to stop poor practice in these types of cases. 
Despite this, Tuto Moneys dealings with Mr E were perfunctory and it didnt follow the 
insistent client rules and guidance. 
For the reasons Ive set out above Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E, through his representative, whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. He didnt specify a preference, so I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line 
with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E. 
Compensation should be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the 
date of my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of the decision.
Tuto Money may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date Tuto Money receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tuto Money to pay Mr 
E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Tuto Money to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint.
I now direct Tuto Money Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Tuto Money Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Tuto 
Money Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman