DRN-3199598
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) treated her, when she took 
documents to a branch so that she could prove her identity. Mrs M said she was treated 
badly because she is a blue badge holder, and she wanted BoI to pay her £50,000.
 
What happened
Mrs M told us she wanted to set up a bank account with BoI. She was asked to attend a
branch with documents, so that her identity could be verified. Mrs M said she checked the
documents that would be needed before she went to the branch, and was told that the items
she had would be fine.
But Mrs M said that when she got to the branch, the staff member she saw told her they
weren't the correct documents and couldnt be used. She said this person was abrupt and
rude and threw her documents across the desk, making her feel like a nobody. Mrs M has
told us about the impact this had on her. Mrs M said that shes a blue badge holder, and she
felt she had been discriminated against because of this status. She listed her medical
conditions, and told us she has now been prescribed with anti-depressants, which she
attributes to this incident.
Mrs M has since been able to open an account with BoI. Mrs M told BoI she felt she should
be compensated £50,000 for BoIs mistake. But she says the bank has only offered £100.
BoI said it was sorry that its customer service fell below the standard that it would expect.
And it was sorry Mrs M was given wrong advice about which documents could be accepted.
But BoI hasnt accepted that it discriminated against Mrs M. It has offered Mrs M £100 in
compensation, and confirmed this offer was still open to Mrs M.
Our investigator said it was clear Mrs M felt strongly about this issue, and she was really
sorry to hear the upset this situation has caused to Mrs M. But she thought BoIs offer was
fair. It had accepted there was an issue in branch, and it shouldve opened Mrs Ms account
for her on her first visit. Our investigator didnt think Mrs M was given incorrect information or
treated differently because of her medical conditions or being a blue badge holder.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said that shed now been prescribed stronger anti-depressants, and
she said that she wanted the member of staff involved to apologise to her.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think its clear that BoI made a mistake, in telling Mrs M that her documentation 
wasnt enough to open her account. I understand that BoI accepts this, and its 
apologised for having provided poor service to Mrs M.
Mrs M initially said to BoI that she wasnt happy with how shed been treated in the 
branch. Later notes of a call with Mrs M say that she said her documents were 
thrown across the floor. But when Mrs M wrote to us, she said that documents were 
thrown back across the table towards me.
I havent been able to find that its most likely that Mrs Ms documents were thrown 
on the floor. But its clear that the interaction has greatly upset Mrs M. I do think its 
likely that Mrs M given poor service, and documents may well have been passed 
back more forcefully than was necessary as part of this. Ive taken this into account in 
reaching my conclusions here.
And I think this issue has caused Mrs M inconvenience as well as upset, because 
she needed to go to the branch twice. For those reasons, I do think its right that BoI 
should pay Mrs M some compensation.
I also need to think about the impact of Mrs Ms status as a blue badge holder, and 
someone with significant medical conditions, on this complaint.
Like our investigator, I havent seen anything that makes me think that BoI made this 
mistake, or provided poor customer service, because of Mrs Ms medical conditions, 
or her status as a blue badge holder. I have considered carefully what both sides 
have said, and I think its most likely that this was a mistake and lapse in service by 
the person in branch who served Mrs M. I note that BoI has written to Mrs M to offer 
its apology for this, so I dont think that the person involved also has to apologise in 
person.
But I do think that the medical conditions that Mrs M has told us about are relevant to 
the amount of compensation that BoI should pay in this case. The medical evidence 
Mrs M sent us supports what shes told us about being unable to travel 
independently. She says that she relies on family and friends to help her. Because of 
that, I think that having to make two journeys to the branch has more of an impact on 
Mrs M.
For the reasons set out above, I think BoI should pay Mrs M £200 in compensation, 
to make up for the impact on her of the poor service she received, and of having to 
make two trips.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BoI sent a written reply. Mrs M and a friend calling on her behalf both rang to respond to the 
decision. 
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoI said that when Mrs M complained, she had said she felt she was treated unfairly and 
suggested this was specifically because she was a blue badge holder. But initially, shed 
said she would have been happy to accept an apology alone. Mrs M said shed been 
insulted when BoI offered money toward her travel costs. 
BoI said that it had further calls with Mrs M, and it felt its staff had listened and empathised 
with her. But BoI said that Mrs M now wanted to publicise how she was treated, and felt it 
should pay £50,000.
BoI said it had apologised, and acknowledged how Mrs M felt. It appreciated that matters of 
compensation are subjective, but it still thought £100 was representative of the impact this 
issue had on Mrs M.
I havent agreed with BoI on this, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. I dont 
think that a payment of £100 recognises how this problem impacted Mrs M.
Mrs M also replied. She called our service, and a representative spoke on her behalf. Mrs M 
told us that she has also written to our service. Unfortunately, this letter hasnt been received 
by us, but fortunately Mrs M kept a copy, and was able to read it to us. 
Ive listened carefully and repeatedly to these calls, so Id like to reassure Mrs M that Ive 
been able to take account of all that she wanted to say to us. 
I said in my provisional decision that when Mrs M first complained, BoIs notes say she said 
her documents were thrown across the floor. But Mrs Ms representative said the original 
letter that Mrs M sent to our service didnt claim that anything had been thrown on the floor. 
She said this was wrong, and another mistake by BoI. So she wanted this rectified, and an 
apology for this. 
Ive also listened to the call that Mrs M made to record her complaint with BoI, after she 
received a letter offering to cover her travel costs. In that recording, I can hear Mrs M say 
She looked at my documents and she just flung them across the floor  I can understand 
that Mrs M may not have meant this literally  this may just have been a figure of speech. 
And Im happy to note now that Mrs M doesnt say this is what happened. But I dont think 
that BoI was wrong to record what she said. 
Mrs M also said that she was still dissatisfied with the outcome of this case. She felt that the 
increased token amount which was being offered meant that BoI was now acknowledging 
and admitting guilt. She wanted to stress the treatment shed received from the one staff 
member on the day, who had behaved without any respect for a member of the public. 
Mrs M said that she would now be prepared to accept £10,000 and leave it at that. If not, she 
said her healthcare team would be taking further action. Mrs M said she hoped I would 
reconsider the offer, and bring closure.
I do accept that Mrs M has been very upset by what has happened in this case. And Ive 
also accepted that Mrs M was provided with poor service on the day in question. But I 
havent been able to find that what happened was done because of Mrs Ms medical 
conditions, or her status as a blue badge holder.I have asked BoI to pay more compensation than it initially offered, or than our investigator 
suggested, because I didnt think the offer so far had taken full account of the impact on Mrs 
M. But I dont think I can increase the award in this case to the amount Mrs M would like.
I understand that Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision. Shes been clear with our 
service that she doesnt intend to accept any less than £10,000 to resolve this case. And I 
still dont feel I can fairly ask BoI to pay the amount of compensation that Mrs M has asked 
for. I do still think that BoI should pay more than it offered, but, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I still think that a payment of £200 is the right amount in this case.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must pay Mrs M £200 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman