DRN-3138873
The complaint
  Mr C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr C was given four fixed term loans by Everyday Loans. The details of the lending are 
given below:
Loan Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments
1 24/06/2015 24 £2000.00 £223.92
2 09/03/2016 24 £4071.74 £376.92
3 07/12/2016 24 £6734.83 £543.99
4 17/07/2018 36 £4020.66 £275.07
Mr C topped up loan 1 when he took out loan 2. This involved him repaying what was owed 
and then receiving what was left over. He did the same for loans 3 and 4. Mr C has an 
outstanding amount to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision when it agreed to give Mr C the loans?
Mr C applied for loan 1 in June 2015. I can see from the documentation Everyday Loans has 
provided, that it asked for information about his income and expenditure. It also says it 
carried out a credit check and used about 6 weeks worth of bank statements to verify what 
Mr C was saying. It also estimated that Mr C would spend about 35% of his income on day 
today expenses. 
Everyday Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Mr C had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments for the first loan, but I dont need to draw any 
conclusions about what checks it says it did at the time and whether these were sufficient. 
This is because, on balance, I dont currently think Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision on loan 1 and I will explain why.
Everyday Loans ought to have been aware from the information it had acquired (and 
supplied to our service) that Mr C wouldnt have been in a position to make the loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. 
Mr Cs credit search showed that Mr C had combined unsecured debt of around £14,000. 
This came from a large hire purchase agreement and 3 open credit card accounts. Mr C 
then declared to it that he had a short-term instalment loan with another finance provider. 
This wasnt showing on the credit search. Everyday Loans took all of this into consideration 
when it assessed his loan application. I can also see from the notes that it asked what the 
loan was for. It noted down that it was to repay a different second payday loan for £500 (that 
also wasnt on the credit search). And it also recorded down that he needed the rest for a 
vets bill. Based on his credit search results, his declaration and Everyday Loans 
assessment of this, loan 1 looked affordable. 
However, the bank statements that it gathered from Mr C presented a different picture 
entirely. Everyday Loans collated 6 weeks worth of bank statements from 05/05/2015 
through to 18/06/2015. During this period, Mr C paid a total of £991.43 in 7 different 
transactions to five payday loan providers. And in this same period of time he took out a 
further 3 payday loans totalling £950.00 in addition to the one that he declared he already 
held. I can see Everyday Loans has written next to all of these transactions to note down 
that they are payday loan transactions. It also noted down in its system on 18 June 2015 
PD Loans xxxx only £450 xxxx paid off can see last payment. The assessor noted down 
the additional payday loan that it says Mr C told it he would pay off with part of the capital 
balance of this loan, but it incorrectly assessed another payday loan that it says was paid off. 
Mr C had made a payment to this loan provider on 01/06/2015 but it then went on to borrow 
another payday loan from it on 08/06/2015, with no further payments on the statement. So, 
after studying the statements further I can see that Mr C held a payday loan that he had 
declared and was included in the affordability calculation, a second that he told it he was 
repaying and then a third payday loan taken out on 08/06/2015 for £300 that was neither 
being consolidated or was factored into its assessment. Mr C had three outstanding payday 
loans at least when he applied for the loan, along with a large hire purchase agreement to 
repay and three open credit cards with balances.  
I can see that Everyday Loans had recorded down that Mr C had told it he was paying off 
one of his payday loans with some of the proceeds from the loan. But even if he had gone 
ahead and done this, he still would have been left with a much larger proportion to repay 
alongside the repayments for loan 1. I dont think this debt consolidation improved his 
finances in any meaningful way and he would still have had a large hire purchase loan, three 
credit cards and 2 short-term loans to pay alongside this loan. It is clear to me when I see 
how much he was borrowing in short term credit on his bank statements only weeks before 
this loan was granted and that he had taken a further 3 short term loans out in the same 
period, that Mr C was reliant on this type of credit and that the repayments for the first loan 
were not sustainable. And the consolidation (repayment of one payday loan) would do very 
little to alleviate this. 
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Something which I think Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised was the case here with the bank statements that it had gathered and would 
have had in front of it.
I have looked at the documentation provided by Everyday Loans for loans 2,3 and 4 also 
and I can see that Mr Cs finances further deteriorated. Mr C throughout his lending 
relationship with Everyday Loans continued to rely on short term credit and he continued to 
regularly take out payday loans. This became evident on the credit searches that Everyday 
Loans took out before it agreed to lend for loans 2, 3 and 4. Mr C had problems managing 
his finances and this showed no signs of abating during the period of time that he was 
topping up loans 2 and 3 and refinancing on loan 4 with Everyday loans. So, it follows that I 
uphold Mr Cs complaint about these loans too for the same reason that I have upheld the 
first loan. Was there a point in which the pattern of lending itself showed further borrowing would be 
unsustainable for Mr C?
I also looked at the overall history and pattern of lending of these loans. By the time of 
Loan 4, Everyday Lending ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt 
have provided this loan. 
I say this because:
 By the time Mr C was asking for loan 4 he had been borrowing from Everyday 
Loans for around 29 months with no breaks in between each loan;
Mr C wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed Everyday Loans. The 
amounts he was asking for had increased from loan 1 to loan 4;
Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Everyday 
Loans over an extended period;
I think, the presence of these high cost loans on Mr Cs credit file was likely to have had 
implications for Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit. 
I think on balance Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C was finding it 
difficult to repay his existing credit commitments from the first application. It was unlikely that 
Mr C would be able to sustainably repay the first loan over the extended terms provided. I 
think in these particular circumstances (from all of the short-term lending transactions on his 
bank statements); Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to him when it assessed loan 1. Mr Cs finances worsened from this point 
and so it shouldnt have agreed to lend to him on the 3 other occasions either. 
So, I am currently upholding this complaint and direct Everyday Loans to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr Cs representatives responded and said it accepted the 
decision on his behalf. ELL responded and made the following points:
It says it strongly disagrees in the outcome.
It adds that loans 1 & 2 were not being disputed by the parties. It says only loan 3 
was left in dispute as it had accepted that loan 4 was an uphold. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Mr C has not made any new points for me to respond to. 
ELL says that it strongly disagrees in the outcome and that loans 1&2 were not in dispute 
between the parties and only loan 3 was. But I dont agree with this. I cant see that the 
parties have agreed a way forward with regards any of the loans informally or otherwise. 
So as this is the case, I reviewed all of the documentation and carried out an independent 
review of what had happened to date. On this occasion, I felt it was a fair and reasonable 
outcome to make findings on all of the loans for the reasons given in the provisional 
decision.So, with no further comments being put forward by either party on the merits of the 
complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. 
So I uphold Mr Cs complaint and ELL now needs to put things right.  
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-4 and treat all the payments Mr C 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Treat Mr C fairly, If there is a balance remaining for Mr C to repay. It should work with 
Mr C to find an affordable payment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loans 1-
3. And remove all entries relating to loan 4. At this point, any information about this 
loan was likely to be adverse for Mr C.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman