DRN-3652869
The complaint
Mr W said when he contacted The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use the drawdown facility
on his account, it said it wouldnt release the money, because it was due to reduce his
drawdown facility in a few days. Mr W said he couldnt have known this would happen.
What happened
Mr W has a mortgage with RBS, that has an drawdown facility. He contacted RBS on 22
February 2022 to draw down £1,000, to pay for urgent work on his home. But RBS said that
it wasnt able to give him the amount he wanted, because it was due to reduce his drawdown
facility at the start of March, and if it gave him this money, it would need this back by the end
of February, so he stayed within the available drawdown.
Mr W said that made no sense. He said that normally what happens with draw down is that
the amount taken is then divided across the remaining mortgage period, and the repayments
go up a little to cover the drawdown. That ensures his mortgage is still paid off within the
original term.
Mr W said he rang back, and spoke with a different person at RBS, who said that if hed
been in touch three months earlier, then all the money he wanted would have been released
to him. And that person was able to release £637, considerably more than hed been offered
earlier. Mr W later contacted RBS to take this drawdown.
Mr W said he couldnt find anything telling him that this was how the drawdown facility was
supposed to work, and since hed raised his complaint, he hadnt had any explanation of
this.
Mr W said that this had delayed the urgent repairs he needed to complete, and left him short
on his monthly budget. He wanted someone to explain to him what RBS was doing.
RBS said that the terms of Mr Ws loan set out that the facility would reduce each year, and
this facility was due to reduce on 1 March to £1,300. The facility goes down regularly to
make sure that the balance is repaid at the end of the term. But if Mr W had called eleven
weeks earlier, he could have had a larger drawdown.
RBS says that if customers ask for a drawdown within three months of an upcoming
reduction in the facility amount, then it would ask if this could be reduced to keep the lending
within the reduced facility amount when the upcoming reduction took effect. But it doesnt
make the same check if someone calls more than three months from the facility reduction.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that hed looked at the
terms of Mr Ws account. He thought two bits were relevant, Section 6f 
6f. Where your Offer letter specifies that you are making full or partial capital
payments, we will apply an annual reduction in the amount of your Facility so as to
keep you on track to reduce the Facility to zero or to the amount agreed with you by
the end of the Term.
N.B. If at any time the annual reduction in the Facility results in your borrowing on the
Account being in excess of the Facility as reduced, we may specify increased
Monthly Payments, after discussing this with you, and may impose special 
conditions.
And Section 3a 
3a. You may not make any withdrawal which increases the borrowing on your
Account to more than the agreed Facility or otherwise allow the borrowing on your
Account to be more than the agreed Facility.
So our investigator thought that RBS had turned down Mr Ws request, because he would
have been over the agreed limit by the time of the reduction. Our investigator said that
businesses are allowed to set their own lending processes, so the three-month window to
borrow is a commercial decision RBS is allowed to make.
Our investigator said Mr W was given two different amounts he could draw down. Both
advisors gave correct information, but what the first advisor didnt do was to explain other
options, which the second advisor did. Our investigator also noted that the service Mr W
received when he was trying to speak to the right department fell below the standards we
would expect to see.
So he said RBS should pay Mr W £100 compensation.
RBS agreed with that, but Mr W didnt. He said the problem wasnt the facility, it was that
RBS wouldnt process requests to use the facility close to the reduction date. Mr W said if
hed been in touch with RBS 11 weeks earlier, it would have given him £4,800 in draw down
funds, then spread the cost over the remaining term of the mortgage, increasing his
mortgage by just over £100 per month to make sure the money was paid back within the
term. Mr W said this wasnt an affordability issue.
Mr W said that this isnt explained anywhere in the terms. And when he asked RBS it
couldnt show him anything that sets this out clearly. And he repeated that the customer
service RBS provided was extremely poor.
Our investigator didnt think RBSs policy was a mistake. It is allowed to set its own lending
processes, so the three month window before the annual reduction was a commercial
decision for it. He said it wasnt unreasonable for RBS to prepare for the annual reduction
within a certain time frame.
Our investigator didnt agree that RBS was entirely unempathetic and failed to provide
decent customer service. The second agent Mr W spoke to did manage to find a way to help
him. But there were elements of poor service, thats why RBS had agreed to pay £100.
Mr W said he still didnt understand why RBS could lend him 650 but not £1,000. Because
no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: Our investigator showed Mr W two sections from the terms of his drawdown facility. I 
think those are important, because what they show is that RBS does want to keep Mr 
Ws overall borrowing within the limit of his drawdown facility.
Those provisions say that if a reduction leaves Mr W over the agreed facility, RBS can 
get in touch and ask Mr W to pay more each month, to bring the amount lent within the 
annual limit. And the provisions also say that Mr W cant allow the borrowing to be more 
than the facility agreed.
RBS has two ways of keeping Mr Ws borrowing within the facility limit. One is to contact 
him, after the facility has been reduced, and ask him to pay more each month. Thats set 
out clearly in his terms.
So, although RBS seems to have confirmed to Mr W that if hed been in touch with it 
more than three months before the facility reduction, it would have lent him money right 
up to the drawdown limit, the terms say when the facility is reduced RBS can then ask 
him to pay this overlimit amount back much faster.
The other way of keeping Mr Ws borrowing within the facility limit, is to refuse additional 
lending which would take him over any upcoming reduction in his facility, during the 
three months before this reduction takes effect.
Because RBS has said it doesnt want Mr W to go over this drawdown facility amount, I 
dont think that refusing further lending in this way, breaches the terms of his agreement 
with RBS. 
But the problem is, that it really isnt clear that RBS is going to do this. I havent been 
able to see that it has explained this for Mr W anywhere. And its a fundamental principle 
of communications issued by banks that they should be clear, fair and not misleading.
I think if Mr W is told that he has a facility which allows him to borrow £4,000 during a 
twelve month period, but what RBS really means is he can only borrow that during the 
first nine months, and during the last three months he can only access much less, then 
that isnt clear, fair and not misleading.
So, I dont think RBS had to lend Mr W the full amount of money that he wanted. But I 
do think it let him down, in how it communicated to him about how this facility works. Mr 
W got in touch with RBS because he was seeking to deal with a home emergency. He 
thought he had a way of covering this unexpected expense, and then suddenly found he 
did not. And I also agree with our investigator that Mr W experienced poor service when 
he first spoke to RBS, as well as when he tried to get back in touch with someone who 
could help him.
For those reasons, I think that RBS should pay Mr W a little more compensation than 
our investigator suggested. I think RBS should pay Mr W £200 in compensation, to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unclear communications, as 
well as by its lapses in service.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS said it was happy to agree with my findings, and pay the additional compensation I had 
suggested.
Mr W thanked me for my response and my detailed explanation. He said he did understand 
RBSs position, but he didnt agree with how it had come to a decision. He felt strongly that if 
he was told he had a drawdown facility of a particular size, then it oughtnt to be reduced 
without a clear explanation of when this reduction would take effect. 
Mr W also said his point remains that if hed asked some weeks earlier, RBS would have 
agreed to lend him much more, paid back over the whole remaining term of the mortgage. 
What he had asked for represented a much smaller amount, over a shorter time, so he said 
that this was a much lower risk to the bank in terms of its lending. 
It's also my understanding that if Mr W had asked earlier, RBS would have agreed to lend 
more, and over a longer period. But the terms of Mr Ws drawdown facility also say once his 
drawdown amount is reduced, RBS can then ask Mr W to pay this money back faster than it 
had previously set out, to bring the overall borrowing within the reduced facility amount. And 
that means I cannot be clear that, if Mr W had asked earlier, he would have been able to 
spread the repayments for a larger drawdown over the whole of his mortgage.
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed. Mr W has 
indicated that he would like to accept this, and asks RBS to pay this into his mortgage facility 
account. I should remind Mr W that he will need to contact our service again, and formally 
accept this, my final decision, before RBS is obliged to make any payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr W £200 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman