DRN-3310329
The complaint
Mrs C says Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to prevent her loss when she fell victim to a 
scam. Shes also unhappy with the service Lloyds provided whilst handling her fraud claim.
Mrs C is being represented by her son, Mr C, to whom Ill refer throughout this decision. 
What happened
On 3 November 2020 Mrs C was called by a fraudster impersonating a fraud officer from the 
police. They said they needed Mrs Cs help in an undercover operation into the actions of 
her bank in respect of the laundering of counterfeit money. The fraudster instructed Mrs C to 
withdraw £7,500 in cash from a Lloyds branch so it could be checked before being returned 
to her. When questioned about the withdrawal by several bank staff, Mrs C told them it was 
to buy a car for her grandson and that she hadnt been the victim of a scam. 
Mrs C withdrew the cash and handed it over to a courier. 
Mr C contacted Lloyds on 5 November 2020 saying his mother had been the victim of a 
scam. Lloyds investigated the matter but was unable to refund the money saying it had 
followed the correct procedures.
Mr C complained to Lloyds. He didnt think itd taken account of his mothers age and 
vulnerability. He was also concerned that Lloyds hadnt thought it suspicious that Mrs C had 
transferred £18,000 from her investment account to her current account shortly before 
withdrawing the £7,500. Nor had it thought it unusual that she was saying she was going to 
buy a car with cash. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had questioned Mrs C about the purpose of the 
withdrawal and had no reason to doubt her responses. So, Lloyds said it had done enough 
to protect Mrs C. It did however pay her £75 for the delays in investigating the fraud and 
responding to the complaint. 
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mr C referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman. 
He said Lloyds shouldve done more to protect Mrs C  given her age and vulnerability. He 
said there was a lack of safeguarding in place which allowed a vulnerable customer to 
withdraw such a large sum of money. Mr C said Lloyds shouldve stopped the withdrawal 
and called the police. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ultimately, they concluded that 
Lloyds had asked sufficient questions of Mrs C when she made the cash withdrawal and was 
acting on her instructions as the account holder. So, the investigator didnt consider Lloyds 
was responsible for her loss. Our investigator also thought the £75 Lloyds paid for its poor 
service was reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators assessment, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide. 
Mr C said bank staff shouldve questioned his mother further when she said the money was 
to buy a car  particularly given that fraudsters will often provide a cover story for their 
victims in the event they are questioned about the transaction. Mr C also said that bank staff 
had subsequently told him that Mrs C appeared a bit confused and disorientated whilst in 
branch on 3 November 2020 and had needed help to arrange a taxi. 
Mr C said there had in fact been two unusual transactions, the moving of £18,000 between 
Mrs Cs investment and current accounts and the £7,500 cash withdrawal. Which Mr C said 
when combined, shouldve prompted Lloyds to intervene and stop the payment, and to have 
involved the police. Mr C wanted us to contact the police as part of our investigation. 
Mr C maintained that Lloyds handling of the fraud investigation and subsequent complaint 
had been unacceptable. He said £75 was an insult and in no way reflected the £7,500 
Mrs C had lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mr C was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
Mrs C has been the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable sum of money as a result. I 
can understand why Mr C would want to do all he can to recover the money his mother lost. 
But I need to decide whether Lloyds can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for 
Mrs Cs loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
I should firstly point out that the Financial Ombudsman is unable to consider criminal 
matters. As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to speak to the police, as Mr C has 
requested. Mr C has also mentioned other banks responses to cases involving similar 
scams to that Mrs C has been the victim of.  I can understand why Mr C has drawn these 
comparisons, but I must consider whether Lloyds couldve prevented the scam in Mrs Cs 
case specifically, rather than more widely, as our powers are limited to the facts of the 
specific case at hand.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs C when she instructed it to withdraw £7,500.
Mr Cs main point of complaint is around the age and vulnerability of Mrs C, and how this 
shouldve alerted bank staff to the fact she was the victim of a scam. He says it was out of 
character for Mrs C to have visited the branch in person and that both transactions  the 
£18,000 transfer from her savings account and the £7,500 cash withdrawal were also very much out of character. Mr C also thinks his mothers response about buying a car with cash 
 which he considers unusual in itself  shouldve aroused suspicion. 
I can see from the system notes that Lloyds recognised this was an out of character 
transaction for Mrs C. The notes specifically say:
It was a large withdraw and out of character so I followed usual procedures . 
In light of this it doesnt matter whether it was the combination of the instructions Mrs C gave 
or just the withdrawal request. Lloyds (correctly in my opinion) intervened when it identified 
unusual account activity. Although for clarity, a customer moving money between their 
accounts isnt something that Id expect Lloyds to place great weight upon (when assessing 
unusual activity) as it is only when money leaves the customers accounts that the risk of 
loss occurs. 
Mrs C interacted with several bank staff when she made the cash withdrawal. I can see from 
Lloyds notes that she was also taken to a separate room by a senior member of staff and 
alerted to the possibility that she was the victim of a scam. But Mrs C maintained her story 
throughout that the money was for a car and didnt relay any concerns about what shed 
been asked to do by the fraudster. And even if more questions had been asked, the 
fraudster had convinced Mrs C not to trust bank staff by saying they were under suspicion, 
so I think Mrs C wouldve continued to maintain her story, and its unlikely any further 
questioning by Lloyds wouldve made a difference to the outcome. So, on balance, I dont 
think Lloyds shouldve done more before processing the withdrawal  and even if it had, I 
dont think it wouldve made a difference. 
Ive carefully considered the specific points Mr C has made about his mothers age and 
vulnerability  and how bank staff had told him shed appeared confused and disorientated 
whilst in the branch making the cash withdrawal. I can see from the system notes that no 
vulnerability had been previously identified in relation to Mrs C  nor were any concerns 
expressed about her understanding of the situation by those who spoke to her about the 
cash withdrawal. So, whilst I dont dispute what Mr C says here  the written evidence Ive 
seen doesnt support any concerns about Mrs Cs state of mind whilst questioned by bank 
staff about the purpose of the cash withdrawal. 
Mr C has said that Lloyds shouldve refused his mothers request to withdraw the money and 
called the police. As Ive explained above, banks have a duty to protect their customers from 
fraud. But theyre also expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to make. 
This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment Services 
Regulations.
Having questioned Mrs C extensively about the cash withdrawal, Lloyds was satisfied with 
the answers she gave. It wouldve had the option of refusing the withdrawal and invoking the 
banking protocol - which allows branch staff, when they suspect its customers may be at risk 
of financial harm or suspected fraud, to directly contact local police who will attend the 
branch. But Lloyds was satisfied that Mrs C gave plausible answers to the questions it asked 
about the withdrawal, and as Ive outlined above, I think its unlikely Mrs C wouldve deviated 
from her cover story, even if further questions had been asked. And I dont think Lloyds 
accepting those answers was unreasonable. Helping a grandchild with the purchase of a car 
is a plausible explanation for her withdrawal request. I should also add that the banking 
protocol doesnt require the police to be called in all cases, just where a bank isnt satisfied 
with what its customer is telling them and still has concerns. This wasnt the case here. So, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for 
Mrs Cs loss in this particular case.
Mr C is also concerned about the level of customer service he received from Lloyds after 
the fraud took place. And doesnt think the £75 reflects the financial loss his mother 
suffered because of the scam. I can understand Mr Cs concerns, and from looking 
through the correspondence exchanged between both parties, I think Lloyds couldve 
handled things better and in a timelier manner. But I believe Lloyds has addressed 
Mr Cs points of complaint as best it can; has apologised for its shortcomings in terms of 
delay and paid Mrs C compensation of £75. 
I fully appreciate Lloyds poor service added to the distress Mrs C was already 
understandably feeling having been a victim of fraud  and the £75 isnt intended as a 
recompense for her financial loss. But taking everything into account, I think Lloyds has 
done enough to put right its shortcomings in the customer service it provided, and so I 
dont think it needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman