DRN-1778542
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined a contactless 
transaction he tried to make on the 13 August 2019. He found this to be embarrassing and 
inconvenient and complains he was given no notice. He further complains about the service 
he received when he tried to make his complaint and that Halifax failed to issue him with a 
final response letter.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
When Mr S used his debit card on the 13 August to make a contactless payment it was 
declined. He used it again very shortly thereafter and, on this occasion, it was accepted. He 
used it for a third time shortly after that, but it was declined again. The following day it was 
also declined and so he made a complaint by telephone to Halifax.
Mr S spent 64 minutes on that call and felt barriers were being put in his way to making a 
complaint, and despite being promised a final response letter Mr S says he never received 
one.
Mr S was unhappy with Halifaxs response on the telephone and the lack of a final response 
letter and so approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An 
investigator looked into the complaint, and having done so, concluded that Halifax hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Halifax has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
At the outset I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Halifax followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
Halifax have implemented a system designed to prevent fraud when their customers use 
contactless payments. On occasions that system will prevent such contactless payments 
being made, but the precise details of when this occurs have not been disclosed to me or Mr 
S, as they are commercially sensitive, and to do so could lead to a reduction in overall levels 
of security should that information fall into the hands of those with criminal intent. It is 
unfortunately a fact of life that there will be those who will try to commit fraud and it is 
incumbent on the banks to put in place measures to protect their customers. The system 
which has been described to me is a fair and reasonable system and I agree that it would be 
counter-productive for Halifax to disclose the precise details of such a system. So, whilst I 
acknowledge that it appears somewhat odd that Mr Ss card was declined, but then worked 
on the next occasion, only to be declined again, I do not consider that Halifax have acted 
unfairly in either implementing such a system or refusing to disclose precisely how it works. 
To speculate on why this might have happened would serve little purpose, and I remain 
satisfied that Halifax have not treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S also feels that notice ought to have been given to him that such a system was in 
operation, and I can understand why he would say that, especially with hindsight. However, I 
dont feel that was necessary because Halifax have confirmed that when a contactless 
payment is declined in this way, an instruction on what to do next appears on the card 
terminal. That instruction tells the merchant to tell the customer that pin and chip needs to be 
attempted, and I think that system is very fair. And I think it is also reasonable to expect the 
merchant to communicate that to the customer. I do not know why pin and chip was not 
attempted by Mr S, but I presume it must be because the merchant did not suggest it. That 
though is not the fault of Halifax, so in my view the system Halifax employ is fair and 
reasonable, and I dont believe it was necessary to give advance warning of it to all of their 
customers.
I turn now to the balance of Mr Ss complaint. He says he did not receive the final response 
letter and I can accept that he did not, since I have no reason to doubt what he says. Equally 
I have no reason to doubt Halifax when they say they sent it, and indeed that it supported by 
a system note to confirm that it was. So, I am satisfied the final response letter was sent by 
Halifax and as such cannot find that they have acted unfairly.
Mr S has also made complaint about Halifaxs complaints system, including having spent 
just over an hour on the telephone talking to a number of members of staff. Halifax quite 
obviously have a process in place to ensure customers complaints are properly captured 
and recorded, and that is bound to take some time in any event. But I can empathise with 
him regarding his experience. Having said that, this element of complaint is not one I can 
look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern what I can and cant look into say that I can 
only look at what are known as regulated activities, and unfortunately complaint handling is 
not one of those activities. As such Im not able to tell Halifax how it should deal with 
complaints, nor can I make any order or award in respect of this. 
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman