DRN-2083798
The complaint
Mr N complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited gave him a replacement device 
that was faulty when settling a claim he made on his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N held a bank account which qualified to have certain benefits as part of a package, that 
included mobile phone insurance. Assurant underwrite this policy and Mr N raised a claim 
with it in June 2019, because his mobile handset was damaged by accident. Assurant 
accepted the claim and sent out a replacement device, which was a like for like model. 
However, shortly afterwards, Mr N told Assurant that this replacement still had third-party 
data on it i.e. held certain information stored by its previous owner. Assurant offered to send 
out an alternative handset  but Mr N declined this, as hed managed to wipe the third-party 
information and had already begun loading his own material on to it. 
Subsequently, in July 2019, Mr N cancelled the policy. But later that year, Mr N got back in 
touch with Assurant to raise that the replacement handset was faulty. He explained that it 
had sustained no damage, yet it was restarting erratically, and the screen was intermittently 
unresponsive. Mr N therefore wanted it remedied under the original policy.
On this occasion, Assurant declined to do anything, citing that the handset was damaged 
when it received it for checking  so it wouldnt be covered. Mr N thought this unfair, as he 
believes the handset was damaged during transit to Assurant, because the faults he 
encountered with the screen and it restarting were present before he posted it back. He 
raised a complaint and asked Assurant to reconsider but it maintained that it had reached a 
fair decision. 
Mr N remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She pointed out that our service could only consider the contract 
of insurance  not any separate warranty that comes with the replacement device. Having 
considered the insurance policy, she upheld the complaint and recommended that Assurant 
send Mr N a new replacement handset. Mr N agreed with this recommendation. 
Assurant does not agree. It submits that when it received the replacement handset for 
inspection, it was damaged and therefore not in the condition that it was in when sent to      
Mr N. In light of this, Assurant states that it should not be held liable for the faults Mr N is 
reporting and it was right to send the device back to him unrepaired. 
Because Assurant does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in question that the claim Mr N made in June 2019 ought to have been accepted by 
Assurant. Accordingly, Assurant replaced the handset on a like for like basis, with a 
remanufactured device i.e. one that was not brand new. 
Here the dispute lies in Mr N submitting that he was provided with a mobile that began to 
develop faults over the space of only four of five months after he received it. Assurant 
accepts that the settlement needed to be one that would last and be free from defects. Its 
position is that it provided a device in a condition that was in keeping with this  but it was 
only that the mobile has since been damaged which has led to the claim no longer having a 
lasting settlement.
Assurant has explained that, following a replacement mobile phone being issued to a 
consumer, it normally provides a twelve-month warranty which covers the replacement 
device for electrical or mechanical breakdown. However, this warranty does not cover for 
any damage, misuse or neglect. Assurant therefore asserts that the damage present on the 
replacement device means that it should not be held liable for the cost for it to be repaired or 
replaced now. 
The investigator thought that the rules that direct the jurisdiction of our service mean that this 
warranty element was not an agreement that we could consider. But in any event, 
notwithstanding any warranty arrangement, Im not satisfied that Assurant has acted fairly 
when settling Mr Ns claim under his insurance policy. That is, the contract of insurance that 
forms the basis of his claim in mid-2019. I say this because, in order to safely conclude 
Assurant should take no further action, I need to be persuaded that the glitches Mr N 
encountered with the phone were not present when he received it as settlement to a claim. 
And having considered everything thats before me, Im not convinced that was the case. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr N contacted Assurant in November 2019, to raise the faults hed experienced with the 
functioning of the phone  which did not include the scratches and other damage identified 
by Assurant as somewhat cosmetic. On the contrary, Mr N raised concerns of the restarting 
of the device, along with the responsiveness of its screen. 
By its own admission, Assurant says its more likely than not that the apparent physical 
damage to the phone was caused during transit to its repair centre. Naturally, this delivery 
occurred after Mr N had already raised the aforementioned faults. In my judgment, this 
supports that there were already problems with the device before it started its passage to 
Assurant. At which time, Mr N had only had the phone for around four months  which is not 
indicative of a defect-free device.
Assurant hasnt sufficiently evidenced that the superficial damage its spotted is the 
dominant or effective cause of the faults Mr N is complaining about. In other words, it hasnt 
substantiated that the problems experienced are only happening because of the physical 
scratches and/or dents to the device. Indeed, theres no expert report or opinion from an 
industry professional for Assurant to rely upon. Consequently, Im not compelled to believe 
that the cosmetic damage to the phone is inextricably linked to either the problems with the 
screen or it randomly restarting. 
Besides, Im not persuaded that theres a credible reason to doubt whether Mr Ns testimony 
is accurate  and he submits that there was no apparent damage to the device upon sending 
it out for delivery to Assurant. Likewise, I see no reason to distrust that Mr N unwittingly 
came across third-party information stored on the device shortly after receiving it. Assurant accepted that any remaining material had been unintentionally left on the phone, 
which similar to other problems Mr N came across is not in keeping with a replacement 
settlement that went as planned.  
So, Mr N originally received the substitute handset in settlement of a valid claim made; 
having shown that an insured event caused the loss he was claiming for; having paid the 
applicable excess; and in replacement of what I can only assume was previously a phone in 
working condition. Yet, Im not satisfied that Assurant provided Mr N with a suitable 
replacement. 
Assurant has alluded to the cause of any damage during delivery being the responsibility of 
Mr N, because the delivery instructions it gave make it clear that the phone needed to be 
packaged securely. However, in the circumstances, I do not deem it necessary to determine 
whether it was in fact securely packed. Had Assurant reasonably shown that the 
consequential damage was the cause of the faults being claimed for, and such damage 
came as a direct result of the actions or inactions of Mr N  I may well have determined that 
further care needed to have been taken by him. But for the avoidance of doubt, Im not 
satisfied Assurant has provided satisfactory evidence to fairly rely on this as a reason to not 
repair or replace Mr Ns phone at this stage.
Putting things right
In light of my findings, I conclude that Assurant did not provide Mr N with an appropriate 
settlement to his original claim (which occurred during the policy term). As a result, and 
given the passage of time thats since passed, I find it fair and reasonable for Assurant to 
replace the device with one of the same make and model. If Assurant cannot do this, Mr N 
should be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification in accordance with the 
policy benefit when it was in place.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. So, Assurant General Insurance Limited 
should: 
- use its best endeavours to replace the device it provided to Mr N with one of the 
same make and model; or;
- if this is not possible, offer Mr N a choice of model(s) with an equivalent specification.
Mr N should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding and he wouldnt be 
able to take further action over the subject-matter of this particular complaint against 
Assurant. If, however, he rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights will 
remain intact.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman