DRN-3879903
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with MetLife Europe d.a.cs decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr W has income protection insurance with MetLife provided by his employer. In September 
2019, Mr W began suffering with symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and was 
unable to work. Mr W said MetLife declined his claim unfairly because it didnt reach out to 
his CFS specialist prior to making its decision to decline his claim. Mr W maintains hes still 
unable to return to work full time because of his symptoms and that MetLife should pay his 
claim. 
MetLife said it considered all the medical evidence supplied to it by Mr W. It also said it 
referred him for chronic pain abilities determination (CPAD) testing on two separate 
occasions and it was concluded that Mr W was able to return to work full time. MetLife, 
therefore, maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator said MetLife had declined Mr Ws claim fairly, because it did so based on 
the available medical evidence and that the evidence persuasively demonstrated Mr Ws 
functional capacity. But Mr W disagreed. In summary, he said that MetLife and our 
investigator should have requested further medical evidence from his specialist before 
reaching a decision on his claim and that because this didnt happen, his claim has been 
declined unfairly. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same 
as those already explained by our investigator in that I find the two CPAD determinations 
persuasive because they were completed independently and they both conclude that Mr W 
is well enough to return to work on full time hours. Ill explain why.
For Mr W to have a valid claim, he must meet the policy terms. To be clear, those terms say 
about incapacity;
For benefit to be paid, the member must be unable to work because of illness or injury
According to the policy schedule, youre incapacitated if youre:
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of your insured occupation because 
of illness or injury
MetLife must show that it declined Mr Ws claim fairly. Thats to say it has to have based its 
decision on medical evidence. Im satisfied it has because both CPAD reports say that Mr W 
is able to return to work. I accept Mr W provided some evidence from his CFS specialist 
which says he cannot work, but Im less persuaded by this letter. I say that because the 
CPAD reports are more comprehensive and are based on a specialist carrying out several 
exercises to determine Mr Ws functional ability. I should say that its not in dispute that Mr W 
suffers with symptoms of CFS, but its whether theyre severe enough to preclude him from 
work. And for the purposes of my final decision, I dont think they are because the CPAD 
reports persuasively demonstrate this. 
The report in July 2020 said;
It is concluded that Mr W does not appear to suffer with any cognitive impairment that would 
prevent him returning to his normal role on a full time basis
The report in September 2021 said;
 Mr W is able to meet the manual handling, cardiovascular endurance, sitting, standing 
and walking tolerances demands of a sedentary job role for an 8-hour work day 
Both these reports were carried out in person by suitably qualified specialists over a two day 
period where Mr W was observed and interviewed. I find these reports more persuasive on 
that basis. The other medical evidence provided by Mr W is less persuasive because it 
doesnt go into the level of detail provided by both those reports. Theres also no persuasive 
assessment which determines Mr Ws ability to work, other than broadly summarising Mr 
Ws self-reported symptoms and arguments about why he believes hes unable to work. And 
so, for these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint as Im satisfied MetLife declined his 
claim fairly, based on persuasive evidence.
I note Mr W was given the opportunity to provide additional medical evidence from his 
treating CFS specialist, however, this evidence wasnt presented. Mr W suggested our 
investigator should contact the specialist for this evidence, but I disagree. Its for Mr W to 
evidence he has a valid claim, and to evidence his complaint, and not the role of this service.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman