DRN-3475032
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited provided poor service and didnt 
pay him enough for his car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
After Mr J made the claim, Admiral found that one of the named drivers on the policy (Mr J2, 
his father) had penalty points on his licence. Mr J hadnt declared them when he renewed 
the policy and added Mr J2 to it. Admiral said it would have charged Mr J a higher premium 
had it known, and that hed made a careless misrepresentation to it. Admiral only paid 86% 
of the value of Mr Js claim, in line with the proportion of the correct premium hed paid. Mr J 
said Mr J2 told him when Admiral raised the issue of misrepresentation that hed forgotten 
he had points on his licence when Mr J first asked about his driving record. Mr J said Mr J2 
had told him hed attended a speed / driver awareness course instead - which Mr J had 
accepted. Admiral didnt require such courses to be declared.  
  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Js claim. He thought Admiral had acted in line with the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
in deciding that Mr J hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. As the 
correct information would have made a difference to Admiral - and Admiral thought Mr J had 
acted carelessly, rather than deliberately - the investigator thought it was fair for it to pay him 
only a proportion of the claim. 
The investigator didnt agree with Mr J that there was evidence of undue delay in Admirals 
claims handling. And he thought it had resolved concerns Mr J had about inaccurate entries 
made by Admiral on his credit report. He thought was reasonable that Admiral had offered 
Mr J £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience arising from these issues. The 
investigator noted that Mr J wasnt happy with the valuation of his car, but he thought 
Admirals updated offer for it (after our intervention) plus its offer of an extra £50 
compensation, was fair. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation
Under CIDRA, a consumer has to take reasonable care not to provide incorrect details to an 
insurer in response to a clear question from it. If that happens, and the insurer can show that 
it would have acted differently had it known the true facts, the consumer will have made a 
qualifying misrepresentation, which means the insurer has the right to take action. The 
action its allowed to take depends on whether it can show the misrepresentation was made 
deliberately or recklessly, or just carelessly. 
Mr J doesnt dispute that he gave Admiral the wrong information about Mr J2s driving 
record, in response to a clear question about it. Mr J thinks it was Admirals responsibility to 
check Mr J2s licence. But under CIDRA, the onus is on a policy holder seeking cover from 
an insurer to ensure they provide accurate details. So Admiral was entitled to rely on what 
Mr J told it at renewal about Mr J2s clear driving record. I now have to consider whether 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt with Mr Js misrepresentation.  
In terms of whether Mr J took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation, the 
standard required by CIDRA is that of a reasonable consumer. We sometimes say it isnt fair 
and reasonable to decline a claim (or to pay only a proportion of it) if the details of a named 
driver on the policy are wrong (as opposed to the policy holders details being wrong). But it 
depends on the particular circumstances of each case.
 
We dont think its reasonable for a consumer to guess whether a named driver has a clear 
driving record, so wed expect them to check with the named driver. Mr J says he did that 
when he renewed the policy in March 2021 and could have done nothing more. Consumers 
are required by Admiral (and by most other insurers) to recall and declare any offences that 
have occurred within the last five years. Mr J says Mr J2 told him he had no points on his 
licence - but that hed been on a driver / speed awareness course at some point after the 
date of a speeding offence he committed in late September 2020. 
 
Mr J2s offence took place just six months before Mr J renewed the policy and added Mr J2 
to it. Any course Mr J2 had booked, attended, or cancelled would have been even closer to 
the renewal date than that, so the details would have been fresh in his mind. I think its very 
unlikely that in March 2021 Mr J2 would have recalled (when asked by Mr J about any 
offences on his record) that hed very recently attended a specific course run by the police, 
when in fact he hadnt done so. He had no reason to say hed attended such a course if he 
hadnt. And I think if hed attended one within the previous few months, its far more likely 
than not that there would have been some discussion of it between Mr J and Mr J2 at the 
time. If Mr J2 had just three penalty points on his licence instead, he would have had no 
reason not to disclose them to Mr J when asked either. I dont think most consumers would 
have thought so few points would make much difference to an insurer. 
In my opinion, theres no evidence to indicate that Mr J deliberately or recklessly tried to 
mislead Admiral, or any reason to believe it was his intention to do so. But given the 
particular circumstances here, I think the explanation Mr J has put forward lacks credibility. I 
think its possible that he genuinely believed Mr J2 had a clear driving record and didnt 
check with him before renewing the policy (although he may have misremembered doing 
so). Alternatively, if Mr J2 was asked - and told Mr J of the recent offence - Mr J knew any 
points from that must be disclosed. So if Mr J2 claimed not to have any points, due to 
attending a course, I think Mr J should have asked basic questions about that (such as its 
date) especially as it seems the matter hadnt been mentioned before. Either way, I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that Mr J made a careless misrepresentation.  
Admiral has shown that it would have charged Mr J more for cover had it known about the 
penalty points on Mr J2s licence, so the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I think that 
entitled Admiral to consider whether the misrepresentation was careless or not, in line with 
CIDRAs provisions. Having decided it was careless, which I think was reasonable, Admiral 
was only required to pay Mr J a proportionate amount of the claim, in line with the proportion 
of the correct premium that hed paid. I think Admiral acted reasonably, and in line with 
CIDRA, in the way it settled the claim. Valuation
Admiral looked at two of the national trade guides in order to determine what the likely 
market value for Mr Js car was. Mr J found a higher valuation, plus adverts showing higher 
prices. Our investigator looked at three of the guides, and found higher valuations shown in 
the two guides Admiral had considered. Admiral then increased its offer by £750, putting it in 
line with our valuations. It isnt clear how Mr J got his valuation - or why its out of line with 
the rest - and we dont think adverts are reliable. So I think its reasonable to rely on the 
valuations we found. As Admiral agreed to take them into account, I think it acted reasonably 
in making a revised offer to Mr J, with interest, plus £50 compensation. 
Other issues
I dont think theres evidence of undue delay in the claims handling, but an advisor told Mr J 
the claim should be settled in two to three weeks. Admiral has accepted that Mr Js 
expectations could have been handled better at the outset, and part of the £100 
compensation it first offered him was to reflect that issue. Admiral has also accepted it made 
an entry in error on Mr Js credit report in October 2021. It has since put that right and asked 
Mr J to send it evidence of any further concerns about its entries. As far as I can see, Mr J 
hasnt shown that Admirals error made any difference to his credit rating  but as it accepted 
it had caused him concern and inconvenience, part of the initial £100 compensation was 
meant to make up for that. I think the compensation offer was fair.
In summary
In my opinion, Admiral dealt with Mr Js claim without undue delay. I think it was fair and 
reasonable (and in line with CIDRA) for it to decide that hed made a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation and to pay him a proportionate amount of the settlement sum due for his 
car. I also think it increased its valuation reasonably and compensated him adequately for 
the service issues he raised. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think Admiral acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr J to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman