DRN-4065498
The complaint
Mr C complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim against his 
Parts and Garage cover. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. Instead Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C held Parts and Garage cover with Acromas  sold alongside a roadside assistance 
policy provided by a third party, I shall refer to as A. In late-2021, he was driving when he 
says he noticed steam started coming from the front of his vehicle and he could smell fumes. 
He says the vehicle was unable to be driven, so he contacted A for assistance. A arrived and 
completed a breakdown report which said: 
Unplugged auxiliary heat pump so member could use vehicle over the weekend and make 
appointment at garage for repair. To make a Parts and Garage Cover claim you must 
arrange for the vehicle to be taken to a garage without delay if it cannot be fixed at the 
roadside. Any delay or continued use will affect the validity of a potential claim. Any repairs 
need to be authorised prior to repair 
Mr C, as instructed, went to repairing garages but they told him the replacement pump 
wouldnt be available for a while. He informed Acromas of this and says he was given a 
mileage warning and told any further damage caused to the vehicle while driving it could 
impact the claim. Mr C says he had no other choice but to drive it, and said the manufacturer 
told him it was fine to do so and wouldnt cause further damage given the pump had been 
disconnected by A. 
Acromas later declined the claim because they say the policy definition of a breakdown 
wasnt met. For clarity, this says: 
Breakdown: A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle: 
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and 
b) which has been attended by [A] under your [breakdown] membership; and 
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey 
safely; and 
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when at Home cover is held under your [breakdown] membership, 
commenced 
Mr C says before reporting the breakdown to A, his vehicle wasnt driveable, nor safe to 
drive, until A attended, carried out a temporary repair, and completed a breakdown report. 
Im satisfied from what Mr C has told us that his vehicle suffered a mechanical failure which 
prevented him from continuing his journey. So, he contacted A who, in disconnecting the 
pump, carried out a temporary repair to enable Mr C to continue with his journey. So, Im 
satisfied that the circumstances which resulted in him contacting A does fall within the 
definition of a breakdown. 
The policy says its designed to cover the costs of parts which require replacing or repairing 
following a breakdown A have attended. And, importantly, it says if a policyholder breaks 
down, and A cant fix it on the roadside, thats where the cover kicks in. Because Im 
satisfied Mr C broke down and parts required replacing that couldnt be completed by A on 
the roadside, his Parts and Garage cover should have responded to the claim. 
It follows the policy says Acromas will help cover the costs of work thats done in a garage 
after a breakdown. So, Acromas should have arranged to fix or replace the pump when Mr C 
first asked them to do this. As such, to put matters right, they must now settle Mr Cs claim in 
line with the policy terms and pay him £100 compensation to recognise any distress and 
inconvenience the delays in settling the claim caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. Acromas Insurance Company Limited must now: 
Settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and 
Pay him £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman