DRN-3468646
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Hoist Finance UK Limited contacting him to check his payments 
are affordable and to make a reduced settlement offer.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was sold to Hoist.
Mr T has complained about Hoist contacting him to review his payment plan and to offer a 
reduced settlement. He feels its unreasonable for them to contact him when he previously 
agreed repayments, and feels theyre trying to intimidate him. He feels that by offering him a 
reduced settlement, theyre encouraging him to pay more than he can afford. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill clarify that I have only considered events after 27 September 2021. The events 
before that were considered in a previous case.
I appreciate that Mr T prefers not to be contacted about his account, and that he finds it 
frustrating when he has previously arranged a payment plan. But this is a valid debt, and 
Hoist have legitimate reasons to contact him about it.
It is reasonable for Hoist to review Mr Ts payment plan and to check its still affordable for 
him. Indeed, thats what Id expect them to do from time to time. Their contact there was 
legitimate.
Having reviewed the emails in question, I did not find anything excessive, unreasonable, or 
intimidating. For example, the emails are polite, they make it clear that Hoist want to work 
with Mr T and make sure he only pays what he can afford, and they refer Mr T to free, 
independent charities in case he needs further help or support.
Hoist were also entitled to offer Mr T a reduced settlement, in case he was able to put a 
lump sum together. This is not an unusual thing to do. Again, Hoists emails were clear that 
Mr T should only pay what he could actually afford. I do not find that they were encouraging 
him to make any unaffordable payments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman