DRN-2100120
The complaint
Miss and Mr O complain that AXA Insurance UK plc has unfairly declined their claim for 
subsidence damage to their rental property under their landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Miss and Mr O took out a commercial buildings insurance policy with AXA in 2012. In August 
2019 Miss O noticed large cracks had appeared in the garage walls and a retaining wall 
directly behind the garage. She said this appeared to be due to nearby building work. 
Miss O arranged for a structural engineer at a cost of around £1,000. And contacted AXA to 
make a claim for subsidence damage. AXA sent its loss adjuster for a site visit in September 
2019. AXA said it would investigate and consider Mr and Miss Os claim.  
In November 2019 Miss and Mr O complained to AXA about the time this was taking and 
then its subsequent decision to decline their claim. AXA responded in January 2020 and 
apologised for the delays of its loss adjusters and offered £300 compensation.
AXAs loss adjusters wrote to Miss and Mr O saying they hadnt detected any evidence of 
subsidence. They said the damage was caused by failure of the retaining wall behind the 
garage but the policy didnt cover this as its not related to subsidence of the site or any other 
insured peril. The loss adjusters said they dealt with Mr Os claim about the garage with 
another insurer in 2013 and the damage had been ongoing for many years then, so it was 
clear it started well before the commencement of Miss and Mr Os policy with AXA. 
Miss O disagreed and said the previous subsidence claim meant that under an insurance 
industry agreement her present claim should be considered. Miss and Mr O referred their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AXAs loss adjusters 
had reported on the damage and hadnt found any subsidence or accidental damage and so 
there was no cover under the policy and the claim had been declined fairly. She said the 
photos from the 2013 showed the cracking was visible then. She said the damage had been 
ongoing for many years and pre-dates the current policy. The investigator said that it had 
taken AXA five months to get an answer to Miss and Mr O about their claim. She said there 
had been avoidable delays, but the £300 compensation offered by AXA was fair for this.   
Miss and Mr O disagreed with the investigator about the claim saying AXAs loss adjusters 
had promised to follow their meeting with contact to the local authority and power network, 
but no action had been taken. Miss O said the garage had been continuously insured via an 
agent since 2006 and the insurance assessor said it had moved quite rapidly in the first year 
of cover by AXA. Miss O requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at AXAs decisions and handling of Miss and Mr Os claim to see if it has 
acted in accordance with their policy and treated them fairly. I have considered the report 
Miss O obtained from a structural engineer and AXAs loss adjusters review of the claim 
now, and in 2013. I have also considered photos, an article and an application to the local 
authority, sent by Miss O.
Its a policyholders responsibility to demonstrate they have a valid claim and for any claim to 
be successful, its necessary to prove that an insured event has occurred and that its 
caused damage to their property. 
Miss and Mr Os policy covers their property for damage caused by subsidence. Their 
structural engineer reported that further work would be required to determine whether there 
had been subsidence at the property. The report doesnt identify subsidence but does 
concur with the loss adjusters findings that the damage is due to the failure of the retaining 
wall and is historic. 
AXAs loss adjusters reported that, The current structural damage to Garage [number] is not 
due to any type of subsidence movement, heave or landslip and that the current damage 
appears to be as a direct result of failure of the retaining wall, which is located directly 
behind the garages.
From the expert evidence there is no link between the damage and subsidence. This doesnt 
just apply to the latest assessment but the previous assessment in 2012 despite the wall 
continuing to move. And so, I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to decline the claim 
under the subsidence peril. The policy also covers accidental damage, but this excludes 
damage caused by cracking. 
AXA said the damage pre-dates the claim by many years and in fact was the subject of a 
previous claim not long after the policy started. It seems clear from the loss adjusters 
records that a subsidence claim was brought by Mr O to their previous insurer in 2013. The 
photos show that the claim appears to have been for the same damage and was rejected by 
that insurer. 
AXA rejected liability for the damage in 2013 for the reason that the damage had been 
ongoing for many years and wasnt subsidence, and I think the same reason holds good 
now. There is nothing in insurance industry agreements that challenges AXAs actions, in 
particular because there is nothing to show the damage is due to subsidence.
Miss and Mr Os policy states, We will cover you for damage occurring during the period of 
insurance. The policy also states that damage occurring prior to the cover is excluded. 
I have looked at the delays in handling Miss and Mr Os claim by AXA. I can understand the 
concern they must have felt while awaiting the outcome and reasoning of AXAs decision 
from August to January 2020. AXA has acknowledged delays that it caused and offered 
£300 compensation. I think this is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience that it 
caused Miss and Mr O and they have said they would like this payment to be made to them. 
And so, if it hasnt already, AXA should re-send payment of £300 to Miss and Mr O. 
From the evidence I have seen it is clear that the damage to Miss and Mr Os garage has 
been ongoing for some time and pre-dates the inception of their policy with AXA. There is no 
evidence of subsidence and it follows that it was reasonable for AXA to exclude the claim in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. Im satisfied that AXA have been fair 
and reasonable in declining the claim.Miss O mentioned that the loss adjuster told her he would make contact with the local 
authority about the issues she has raised. She should take this up with AXA or the loss 
adjuster directly as this isnt part of a complaint I can consider. Similarly, she should contact 
the local authority about any action it may be minded to take in the area.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman