DRN-3139556
The complaint
Mr P complains MBNA Limited (MBNA) failed to notify him of missed payments on his credit 
card account and have registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr P says he was contacted by a debt collection agency, informing him they had taken over 
his credit card debt from MBNA. Mr P says he wasnt made aware of this by MBNA or that 
he had missed any payments due on his credit card account. Mr P says he has other credit 
card accounts with MBNA, and they should have been aware the accounts were connected 
but instead they had been sending correspondence and statements to an old address. Mr P 
accepts MBNA may have sent him text messages about his credit card account but says 
these were blocked as he believed these messages were spam. 
Mr P says he is prepared to settle the debt with the debt collection agency but wishes MBNA 
to remove any adverse credit information from his credit file.
MBNA says when Mr P changed address he never informed them of this and while he has 
since opened two new credit card accounts since then, their account application team are 
only responsible for the credit card they are opening. MBNA says they were notified that Mr 
P had cancelled his direct debit instruction in March 2020. MBNA says they sent Mr P 
various text messages about the cancelled direct debit and the subsequent missed 
payments, in addition to the letters they sent to the address they held on file for him. 
MBNA sent a notice of default and final demand to the address they held on file and says it 
was Mr Ps responsibility to make sure his address details were up to date. MBNA says they 
have a responsibility to accurately record its customers account activity with the appropriate 
credit reference agencies and have done nothing wrong here.
Mr P wasnt happy with MBNAs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
She felt that MBNA had provided evidence to show they had made several attempts to 
contact Mr P concerning his outstanding debt, by various different methods, and it was Mr 
Ps responsibility to have informed them of his change of address, but he hadnt. The 
investigator didnt feel MBNA had done anything wrong when they passed the debt to a debt 
collection agency and notified the appropriate credit reference agencies. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr P to learn one of his credit card accounts had 
been transferred to a debt collection agency and MBNA had recorded adverse information 
on his credit file. When considering this complaint, I will look at whether MBNA could have 
done more here before they placed Mr Ps credit card debt with a debt collection agency and 
recorded adverse information on his credit file.  
Mr Ps complaint centres around the fact, he never received any notifications from MBNA 
about his outstanding debt until a debt collection agency contacted him about it. Mr P says 
MBNA sent correspondence regarding this credit card account to an address he had moved 
from, some years before. Mr P has made the point he subsequently opened two other credit 
card accounts with MBNA, so they should have been able to connect these cards and 
ascertain his correct address for his former credit card account. Mr P has conceded that 
while MBNA may have sent him text messages regarding his credit card account, he 
wouldnt have read these as he had silenced such notifications believing them to be spam - 
he says the formal demands and notifications were sent by letter in error, by MBNA to his old 
address. 
The first thing to say here, is although Mr Ps wife is an additional cardholder on his credit 
card account, it would still remain his responsibility to keep MBNA informed of any changes 
in his circumstances, including moving address. I say this because additional cardholders 
would only have limited authority to make amendments to the credit card account and 
although I can see Mr Ps wife contacted MBNA in January 2015, from the information I have 
been provided with, she was informed that Mr P would need to contact them to change the 
postal address held for the credit card account, but I cant see he ever did. This is consistent 
with the terms and conditions of the credit card Mr P held, under section B.11 it states:
You must tell us if your name or contact details change by calling us or going online. 
Otherwise, we will continue using the details you last gave us. We are not responsible if we 
cannot contact you or if we send confidential information to the wrong address using those 
details.
While I can understand Mr P at the time of moving home in 2015, may have believed the 
address had been changed, its not unreasonable to say it still remained his responsibility, as 
the credit card account holder and the person responsible for the debt, to ensure this had 
been carried out. 
From the information provided to this service, the direct debit for Mr Ps credit card account 
was cancelled by him in March 2020 and at that point MBNA contacted Mr P by way of an 
email and text messages, informing him of this and also asked him to check his statements 
online. I have seen evidence from MBNA to show that Mr P was registered online with 
MBNA for his credit card since 2012, so its reasonable to assume Mr P would have had 
access to his online credit card account statements, at the time the direct debit was 
cancelled. Additionally, and as important here, Mr P would have been paying this monthly 
direct debit leading up to its cancellation in March 2020, for many months before. Mr Ps 
minimum monthly payment at that time, was in the region of £150 per month, servicing a 
debt on this credit card account of close to £6,000. 
With that in mind, Im not persuaded by Mr Ps suggestion he hadnt been made aware of the 
missed monthly payments - its fair to say one would expect a sum of this amount each 
month, if no longer being collected from his bank account, would in all likelihood be noticed by Mr P. So, it follows, once this payment wasnt being taken each month, I would expect Mr 
P to have noticed this and queried it with MBNA. In addition, although Mr P says he silenced 
his text messages and therefore any notifications from MBNA would have gone into spam, I 
cant say MBNA can be held responsible for Mr P taking this action. The fact remains it was 
his responsibility to personally inform MBNA of any address changes and additionally, to 
ensure he was meeting his monthly credit card commitments with them.  
Mr P feels MBNAs internal systems should have been able to identify his credit card 
address details had changed because he had subsequently taken out two other credit card 
accounts with them in November 2015 and October 2016, at which time he provided his new 
address and received correspondence from MBNA about these new cards. While it may be 
preferable for MBNAs account opening system to link and be connected to its credit card 
account address administration, its not the role of this service to tell them it must. What is 
important here, is Mr P only had one credit card account with MBNA between January 2015, 
when he moved and November 2015 when he applied for a second credit card. So, having 
had regular communications from MBNA for some years, its not clear why for around 10 
months, Mr P never thought of asking MBNA, why he was no longer receiving any 
statements or other communications from them. 
Its unfortunate Mr P never formally advised MBNA of his change of postal address in 
January 2015, but its reasonable to assume between the time of his move, and when the 
direct debit was cancelled in March 2020 - over 5 years later, that Mr P should have realised 
the address for this credit card account hadnt been changed. I say this because, Mr Ps 
address would have been detailed on his online credit card statements, otherwise, this 
indicates Mr P hadnt viewed any online statements for this credit card and he hadnt been 
aware of the debt outstanding, or what was due each month, over this five year period. On 
balance, I am satisfied Mr P would have had the opportunity to view his credit card account 
statements over this period of time, which would have shown his old address and it was for 
him to tell MBNA that this was incorrect. 
I have seen the notice of default letter MBNA sent to Mr Ps old address along with a final 
demand letter, in these, it explains the debt would be referred to the relevant credit reference 
agencies and subsequently informing Mr P his debt was being sold to a debt collection 
agency. Here, MBNA had sent these letters to the address they held on file for this credit 
card account, because Mr P hadnt formally informed them of any change of address as he 
was obliged under the terms and conditions of his credit card account, referred to previously. 
Its fair to say, MBNA have therefore acted correctly in reporting this to the appropriate credit 
reference agencies, as they are obliged to do.  
I am pleased to see that Mr P has now settled his outstanding debt with MBNA and this 
should be reflected on his credit file. Although Mr P says he would have done this sooner, if 
he had been made aware of the missed payments, but for the reasons I have already 
explained it remained his responsibility to ensure he checked his monthly credit card account 
statements, to ensure his monthly credit card account commitments were being met. 
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of MBNA.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman