DRN-3190122
The complaint
Ms B complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as Scottish 
Provident) treated her unfairly, when the underwriter of her unemployment policy was no 
longer able to provide cover.
What happened
Ms B took out a plan with Scottish Provident in 2012, which included unemployment cover 
and premium payment benefit (unemployment).
The unemployment elements of Ms Bs policy were due to run for 20 years. And were 
underwritten by an insurer which I will refer to as S. 
In November 2019, S advised Scottish Provident that it would be putting its business into an 
orderly run off and would not be accepting new applications or renewals. And in March 
2020, S told Scottish Provident that it would no longer be able to continue to provide the 
unemployment cover for existing policyholders. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs unemployment cover state the following:
The benefit is underwritten by the insurance provider. The insurance provider may 
be changed by us. If the insurance provider stops offering this benefit we will do 
everything possible to find another insurance provider. If our arrangements with the 
insurance provider change, or we have to change the insurance provider, this may 
result in a change to the Product Guide and the policy benefit schedule. If we are 
unable to change the insurance provider, we will have to stop your cover. We will aim 
to ensure that any change to your policy provisions and the policy benefit schedule 
will be fair and reasonable to the policy owner. We will give 30 days prior written 
notice to the owner at the last known address of a change to the policy provisions 
and the policy benefit schedule or, if the benefit is to be underwritten by another 
company. We will give 90 days written notice if the benefit is to be withdrawn. You 
can end this benefit at any time by writing to us at our registered head office 
address. 
Scottish Provident wrote to Ms B in March 2020. It told her S was no longer able to provide 
her unemployment cover. And it said because of this, the cover would be cancelled in July 
2020. 
Ms B complained to Scottish Provident. In summary she said she should have been 
informed of the changes at S as soon as Scottish Provident became aware, and it shouldnt 
have waited until March 2020 to tell her. She said had she been informed sooner, she would 
have had greater opportunity to find a new policy. She wanted Scottish Provident to continue 
to provide cover for any valid claim until the end of April 2021.
Scottish Provident said it hadnt known Ms Bs policy would need to be cancelled when it 
received notification of the changes at S in November 2019. It said it had explored 
alternative ways to offer continued cover for the unemployment policies, but had been 
unsuccessful. And it was unable to underwrite the unemployment cover itself. 
Unhappy with Scottish Providents response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Scottish 
Provident had acted unfairly. 
Scottish Provident made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Ms B 
disagreed. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Scottish Provident 
has a responsibility to communicate in a way which is clear fair and not misleading. And 
must act honestly and fairly.
Ms B has made detailed submissions to us about her complaint. But, were an informal 
alternative to the courts and this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are material in 
determining a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
I note Ms B is unhappy about Scottish Providents handling of her complaint. However, we 
can only look at complaints about regulated financial activities and complaint handling isnt 
one of the regulated activities, so Im unable to address Ms Bs concerns relating to this.
Having reviewed this complaint, I dont think Scottish Provident has done anything wrong. 
And Ill explain why. 
The terms of the unemployment cover state the cover can be withdrawn, or the terms 
changed, if the underwriter is no longer able to provide the cover. And they state that 
if an alternative provider cant be found, the cover will be cancelled. And thats what 
happened here, as S was no longer able to underwrite the cover. Scottish Provident 
has also said it attempted to find another insurer to step in, but it was unsuccessful. 
The policy terms state Scottish Provident must provide 90 days notice before 
cancelling the cover. And Im satisfied that Scottish Provident adhered to this by 
writing to Ms B on 27 March 2020, before her cover was cancelled on 1 July 2020. 
S notified Scottish Provident in November 2019, that it would not be accepting new 
applications for cover, or renewals. However this didnt automatically mean S would 
no longer underwrite Ms Bs unemployment cover. Ms Bs cover was not renewable 
annually - it was set to run for 20 years. So I dont think Scottish Provident could 
reasonably be expected to have known that it would definitely have to cancel Ms Bs 
cover, or when this might happen. And because of this, I dont think it needed to 
make Ms B aware of the changes before March 2020, as prior to this, it wasnt clear 
that she would be impacted, or when. 
And for the same reasons as above, I dont think Scottish Provident acted unfairly in 
not including information about the changes at S, when it wrote to Ms B about her policy at the end of February 2020. This letter was sent prior to Scottish Provident 
receiving confirmation from S in March 2020, that is was no longer able to provide 
the cover. 
Ive thought about Ms Bs point, that she should have been given 30 days notice of a 
change in provider. Scottish Provident has said it was attempting to find another 
underwriter to take on the policies, and had it been able to do so, I agree that in line 
with the policy terms, it would have needed to give 30 days notice ahead of a new 
provider taking over. But, thats not what happened here, as no new provider was put 
in place. 
Scottish Provident was informed in early March 2020, that S was no longer able to 
provide the unemployment cover. It wrote to Ms B on 27 March 2020, notifying her of 
what her happened, and that her unemployment cover would be cancelled on 1 July 
2020. Considering the level of action Scottish Provident would likely have needed to 
take to send a mailing to all of its affected customers, I dont think the time taken 
between it being informed by S, and writing to Ms B, was unreasonable. 
Scottish Provident said it would be willing to consider paying valid claims from 
policyholders during 2020 as a goodwill gesture, as it recognised the difficulties in 
obtaining new unemployment cover, following the Covid-19 pandemic. I think this 
shows Scottish Provident was acting fairly. And I think it would be unreasonable in 
the circumstances of this case, for me to say it should extend this offer any further.
I appreciate Ms B would have preferred to have continued with her unemployment cover as 
she expected when she took it out. And Ive noted her comments about the difficulties in 
finding a new policy, and the extra time she would have had to do this, if shed been made 
aware sooner that her cover would be cancelled. However, as Ive explained, I dont think 
Scottish Provident has acted unfairly, so it would be unreasonable for me to hold it 
responsible for the unfortunate situation Ms B found herself in. And so I wont be directing it 
to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman