DRN-2008889
The complaint
Mr L complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) turned down a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
When I refer to Society of Lloyds I means all its agents, including any third parties involved 
in the complaint. As the insurer, Lloyds is ultimately responsible for a complaint about a 
declined claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurance policies cant do and dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to 
decide what events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. Theyre also free to 
include exclusions in policies for things they dont want to cover. Here the policy 
doesnt cover Loss or damage if the vehicle is taken or driven without your 
permission by a spouse/civil partner, partner, boyfriend or girlfriend, member of the 
family or household of a permitted driver.
Its not disputed that Mr Ls car was taken by his brother - without his permission. So, 
this policy exclusion applies. 
Mr L co-operated with the police during the investigation which led to his brother 
being charged. Mr L says because he co-operated with the police the policy 
exclusion shouldnt apply. 
Mr L finds the wording of the exclusion to be ambiguous. He says it doesnt 
specifically state the exclusion would still apply regardless of police co-operation. 
And Mr L is right; theres no mention of this, but that doesnt make the exclusion 
ambiguous. 
The policy excluded cover whatever the circumstances, as Ive said above. I consider 
the lack of exception to be significant and unusual, so Id expect Lloyds to make this 
clear in the policy documentation. And I think they did. I say this because its listed as 
a significant exclusion in the statement of insurance. Theres no mention of police  
co-operation in this exclusion. Had Lloyds wanted to cover this I wouldve expected 
to see it in the policy, but its not. Im satisfied the exclusion isnt ambiguous.
Mr L also considers his claim should be paid as Lloyds declined it based on his 
vehicle being taken without consent, and not considering the incident as theft. He 
thinks it is theft and the wording of the exclusion doesnt specify theft so it shouldnt 
apply. I would consider the incident that led to Mr Ls car being damaged as theft. But 
in any case, for a theft to occur its reasonable to assume consent has not been 
given  so in any event Im satisfied Lloyds have applied the exclusion correctly and 
have acted fairly when doing so. 
Having looked at all the information Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when 
applying the policy terms and turning down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman