DRN-3124656
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim under his personal 
belongings policy. 
What happened
Mr E took out insurance with Aviva to cover his shooting equipment, which included 
binoculars. During a train journey, he became aware that his binoculars were no longer with 
him. After searching the carriage, Mr E reported the loss or theft to the train staff. Following 
their advice, he also contacted its lost and found department. After a few days, the 
binoculars hadnt turned up, so he made a claim under his policy.
Aviva declined the claim relying on the exclusion for loss or theft if the belongings are left 
unattended and out in the open. Thats because Mr E said hed taken his hand off the 
binoculars during the train journey. 
Mr E complained because he didnt agree with Avivas definition of unattended.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly because Mr Es binoculars couldnt 
reasonably be classed as unattended or in the open when hed had them next to him.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the definition of attended is to watch or take care of something. It 
said if Mr E had taken care of his binoculars, they wouldnt have been lost or stolen.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue is that Mr E doesnt think Aviva treated him fairly when it declined his claim for 
loss or theft of his binoculars. 
The policy provides cover as follows:
 
Section 3  Shooting Equipment
Provides cover for theft, loss or damage to Shooting Equipment.
Shooting equipment is defined in the policy as:
Guns or other shooting equipment such as sights, binoculars, ammunition, clothing & 
accessories specifically designed and purchased for Shooting and extends to include 
baggage and trophies up to the limit defined in Your Insurance Schedule.
Based on the policy definition, Im satisfied cover wouldve been available to Mr E.
Aviva declined the claim and it relied on the following policy exclusion:
7. Loss or theft of any Shooting Equipment left unattended in the open
Ive listened to the loss notification call and Mr Es subsequent complaint to Aviva. Its clear 
from the calls that Mr E doesnt know whether the binoculars were stolen or whether he 
simply lost them sometime between the railway platform before getting on the train and 
getting off at his stop. He explained that he kept the binoculars in a bag slung over his 
shoulder which hed place beside him when sitting down. Mr E doesnt think that means his 
binoculars were unattended.
When asked to define unattended, Aviva told Mr E it meant he hadnt watched or taken care 
of his belongings. Ive thought carefully about this, but I cant agree that its fair to say that 
applies to Mr Es circumstances. Mr E said his property was next to him and he confirmed he 
didnt leave his seat to wander around the train. 
Aviva hasnt provided any evidence to show Mr E left his binoculars unattended, except to 
say he admitted he didnt have his hand on them. While he may not have had his hand on 
them for the entire journey, I think a reasonable person could expect to have their 
belongings next to them without having to hold on to them. Aviva hasnt defined unattended 
in the policy documents, but I think a reasonable person could interpret left unattended in 
the open as having an element of carelessness, such as walking away from the property. I 
dont think Aviva has clearly demonstrated that here.
For these reasons, I think Aviva acted unfairly when it declined Mr Es claim for loss or theft 
under his policy. Im satisfied it should settle his claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Aviva 
Insurance Limited must.
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman