DRN-3592640
The complaint
Mr V complains that Qmetric Group Limited (trading as Policy Expert) unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Policy Expert, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees 
and others insofar as I hold Policy Expert responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
On 21 October 2021, Mr V went onto a price comparison website. He gave details of a 
vehicle with a 16 registration number. Mr V got cover for that vehicle, to start from 1 
November 2021. 
Policy Expert asked Mr V for evidence of his No Claims Bonus (NCB).
Policy Expert gave Mr V seven days notice of cancellation of the policy.
Policy Expert cancelled the policy with effect from 8 December 2021 and declined to 
reinstate it.
Mr V complained to Policy Expert that it should remove all records of the cancellation and 
compensate him.
By a final response dated late December 2021, Policy Expert turned down the complaint but 
refunded Mr V the cancellation fee of £60.00.
Mr V brought his complaint to us in mid-January 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
with the actions taken by Policy Expert (who he referred to as QML). He didnt think that 
that it cancelled Mr Vs policy unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that Policy 
Expert emailed Mr V on 1 December 2021, advising him to send the V5 document for the 
insured vehicle and that if the V5 wasnt received by 8 December 2021, it would cancel the 
policy. 
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Policy Experts email dated 1 December 2021 is a fake, without the header. He didn't 
receive a request to provide a V5 document until after Policy Expert had cancelled his 
insurance. If Policy Expert had asked for the V5 he wouldve provided it. He had 
provided them with everything else they asked for.
The burden of proof lies with Policy Direct and there is no email, nor any proof they 
have sent it. He has discussed this with his email providers technical department, 
and they also cant find this alleged email. It doesnt exist. 
Policy Direct sent an email dated 1 December 2021  but it was information about 
how to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy Experts policy terms included the following:
Our right to cancel your policy
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time if there is a valid reason for doing 
so.
We will not cancel your policy without a valid reason and we will tell you our reason 
for cancelling the policy.
If we decide to cancel, we will send seven days notice to you at the last email or 
postal address we have on file for you
Here are some examples of valid reasons why we might cancel this policy
d. You fail to co-operate with us, or send us information or documents, and this 
significantly reduces our ability to process your policy 
Policy Experts welcome letter to Mr V asked him for proof of his NCD. The letter said that 
the vehicle had to have had continuous insurance unless there had been a SORN (Statutory 
off-Road Notification) or the vehicle was being sold. It said the document had to show the 
vehicle registration number.
Mr V sent proof of NCD  but it related to a different vehicle with a 19 registration. The next 
day he sent proof of NCD relating to yet another vehicle with an 18 registration.
On 17 November 2021, Policy Expert gave Mr V seven days notice of cancellation of the 
policy. It told Mr V that the reason was that it hadnt been able to validate his NCB. Im 
satisfied that this was a valid reason for cancellation.
I find that Mr V received that notice and replied to it  by re-sending the proof of NCD 
relating to the vehicle with an 18 registration.
On 24 November 2021, Policy Expert gave Mr V seven days notice of cancellation of the 
policy. It told Mr V that the reason was that the insured vehicle had a gap in insurance cover 
without proof of a SORN. Im satisfied that this was a valid reason for cancellation.
I find that Mr V received that notice and replied to it  by saying that the insured vehicle had 
been stored in a garage until 1 November 2021. He said that he had already sent proof of 
NCB. But Policy Expert wasnt satisfied with the proof of NCD. It noted that Mr V had said 
hed had the vehicle since 2016, so it still considered that there was a gap in insurance cover 
without proof of a SORN.
Ive noted what Mr V has said about the email dated 1 December, the lack of a header and 
what his email provider told him. But I find on the balance of probabilities that Policy Expert 
did send its email dated 1 December at about 11:00 that day. The content of the email was 
that Policy Expert asked for the V5 showing when Mr V had acquired the vehicle. It said that 
if the V5 wasnt received by 8 December it would cancel the policy. 
Im satisfied that Policy Expert had already given Mr V seven days notice of cancellation of 
the policy on 17 November and again on 24 November 2021. And Im satisfied that Policy 
Expert still had the valid reasons that it hadnt been able to validate his NCB and that the insured vehicle had a gap in insurance cover without proof of a SORN Statutory off-Road 
Notification. So Policy Expert had no need to fake an email dated 1 December and I dont 
find that it did. 
Whether or not Policy Expert had sent the email of 1 December, I dont find that Policy 
Expert treated Mr V unfairly by cancelling his policy.
I wouldve expected Policy Expert to send a written confirmation that cover had ended at 
midnight between 8 and 9 December. Theres no evidence that it sent such confirmation. But 
Mr V has shown us evidence that he missed a night shift on 8/9 December. And he 
contacted Policy Expert on 9 December. So Im satisfied that he had got the message that 
the cancellation had taken effect.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Policy Expert to change its record of its 
cancellation or to pay compensation to Mr V or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Qmetric Group Limited (trading as Policy Expert) to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman