DRN-1948905
The complaint
Mr M complains about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to his cars rear 
windscreen under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse him for the costs he 
incurred as a result. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim to UKI for windscreen repair. Its agent completed a temporary repair, but 
Mr M said he didnt identify a Perspex that should have been provided, just a crash wrap, 
and he said glass was left in the cavity of the tailgate. Mr M contacted the agent and, 
because of poor customer service, UKI awarded him £50 compensation. A further £50 was 
awarded for a cancelled appointment. 
The agent told Mr M it wouldnt be able to remove the broken glass from the cavity. So Mr M 
arranged his own repair. The lock on the tailgate then failed. Mr M thought UKI should 
reimburse him for this cost and consequential damage he said was caused by the agents 
repairs. 
UKI said its agent wouldnt investigate the tailgate under a glass claim. Instead Mr M would 
have to lodge a new claim, pay his policy excess and his No Claims Discount (NCD) would 
be affected. Its letter also said he could have his own repairer look at the tailgate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI 
should reimburse Mr M the policy limit of the liability for using an outside repairer, £125, as it 
had already agreed to do. 
Mr M replied asking for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that what he thought was a straightforward 
replacement wasnt completed to his satisfaction and that there are now further problems 
with his car. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr M contacted UKI after his rear window was broken. He decided to make a glass claim as 
this had a lesser policy excess and wouldnt affect his NCD. But Mr M thought UKIs repairer 
was negligent when it made temporary repairs. He thought it hadnt removed all the 
shattered glass and this caused further damage to his car. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms policy documents. I can see that UKI will pay to:
replace or repair broken glass in the windscreen, sunroof or windows of your car, and repair 
any scratching to the bodywork caused by the broken glass, as long as there has not been 
any other loss or damage to your car;
In Mr Ms first call to UKIs agent, it said it would hoover up all the broken glass. I think thats 
a fair and reasonable expectation. Mr M said there was still glass left in the cavity of the 
tailgate and this affected its closing. 
But I dont think UKIs agent offered to dismantle the tailgate to remove broken glass. And I 
cant see that this is provided for by the policy. I can also see that UKIs agent told Mr M that 
it wouldnt be able to do this as it lacked the needed tools. So I cant say that UKI was 
required to do this when making the windscreen repair. 
UKI did suggest cancelling the claim and making a claim for damage under the policy. This 
would have allowed the tailgate to be repaired. But this would also have had consequences 
for Mr Ms NCD and policy excess. So I can understand why he would want to avoid this. 
Mr M said he decided not to use UKIs agent further and he didnt want to make a claim on 
his policy. Instead, he took his car to his own repairer. When this repairer looked at the 
window, Mr M said he was able to remove the door lining and the shattered glass quickly. 
But Mr M told us he said glass may have got into the lock and affected it, so the door wont 
open. 
But I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for this as I havent seen any evidence that its 
agent caused this damage through its workmanship rather than it being caused by the 
breakage of glass. 
Mr M wanted UKI to reimburse the cost of having his own repairer replace the window. I can 
see that in its response to Mr Ms complaint, UKI said he could ask a repairer of his own 
choice to check the tailgate. But I think this was a suggestion and not somthing that UKI was 
offering to take responsibility for. 
Mr Ms policy says UKI wont pay:
any amount greater than the limit shown in the schedule if you do not use an approved 
windscreen supplier.
Mr M decided not to use UKIs windscreen supplier. UKI refunded his policy excess. But it 
said that the limit of cover was £125. I can see that this is set out on the Statement of 
Insurance. So I cant say that UKI has acted outside the policy terms and conditions or 
unfairly or unreasonably in offering to reimburse this amount to Mr M. 
UKI has already agreed that its customer service has been lacking and its paid Mr M £100 
in total compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id 
award in similar circumstances. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman