DRN-4281280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they were wrongly advised by HSBC about the information
required to receive a transfer of money in dollars. As a result the transfer was sent back and,
when received again, at a lower exchange rate. They further complain that HSBC failed to
advise them about the exchange rates it applied.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr T called HSBCs international payment division about the steps he
needed to take to receive a payment of $339,000 into his account. He was told, over the
course of two phone calls, that he needed to provide the SWIFT code. He was further told
that the dollars would be converted into £ sterling at the exchange rate that applied at the
time. Whilst he mentioned providing his account number, he wasnt specifically told he
needed to provide the IBAN (international bank account number) to the transferring party.
Mr T went ahead and requested for the transfer to take place. He was asked about his IBAN
but as he was driving at the time he asked for the money to be transferred without it,
believing that having provided his account number, it wasnt necessary. When the money
arrived, it was sent back (on 1 November 2022) as it didnt have the correct IBAN on it. After
Mr T gave the correct IBAN , the money was resent and credited to the joint account on
18 November. However due to a change in the exchange rate, the amount received was less
than if it had been received on 1 November.
HSBC agreed that Mr T should have been informed about the IBAN. It paid Mr and Mrs T
£300 for distress and inconvenience. It also credited £5,283.82 to their account. This was
the difference between the exchange rate that would have been applied by HSBC on
1 November and that which applied on 18 November 2022.
Mr T wasnt happy with this. He felt that HSBCs exchange rate was very much lower than
he could have obtained on the market and that as the money would have taken four days to
clear an average of the exchange rate applied over those four days should be paid. He
believes the payment is short by over £13,400.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that HSBC had acted
reasonably.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that what hadnt been addressed was the hidden excessive loss
caused by HSBC using its own exchange rate. He believes HSBC should have explained
this to him. He also felt that the fairest way to apply the exchange rate would be to take an
average over the four days he believes under normal circumstances it would have taken to
reach the account.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I agreed with the Investigators 
findings, HSBC should also pay interest to reflect the delay in the funds reaching 
Mr and Mrs Ts account.
HSBC accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept my findings. Mr T said that he understood from HSBC that he 
would only be charged £5. This was not the case as he was charged two fees - £5 and (as 
I understand it) the fee arising from the exchange rate used. He doesnt accept that HSBC 
couldnt have told him this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
When Mr T spoke to HSBC on 21 October 2022 the reasons for his enquiry were 1) to find
out what information he needed to provide to carry out the transfer 2) whether the money
could be transferred in dollars to his account and 3) what the fees were for transferring the
money and if the exchange rate that applied was whatever it was on the date of transfer.
In respect of the information Mr T needed to supply the transferring bank, in the calls of
21 and 22 October I dont think it was made clear to him that he needed to supply not his
UK account number but his IBAN. Because this wasnt supplied Mr and Mrs T were put
through an anxious wait while they waited to find out what happened to their money.
Because of this, recognising that it was at fault, HSBC paid Mr and Mrs T £300
compensation. I think bearing in mind our awards of compensation in similar cases, this was
fair and reasonable.
Mr T was advised of the £5 fee applicable. Though he was later told this fee only applied if
HSBC carried out the transfer and that different fees might be applied by the sending bank, I
note that he was charged £5. In respect of the exchange rate in my view Mr T wasnt making
the call to find out what it would be as he was clearly aware that the rate might fluctuate. But
I dont think he was requesting details of the likely rate.
I dont think that HSBC was obliged to tell Mr T about its likely exchange rate and how that
compared with others. 
When HSBC received, and sent back the payment of $339,634.10 on 1 November 2022, the 
exchange rate was 1.1829966 (dollars to the pound). This equated to £287,096.43. When it
was received again on 18 November the rate was 1.2051770 equating to £281,812.61.
HSBC paid the difference to Mr and Mrs T of £5,283.82. Its rates were based on its spot rate
for the day. Mr T believes he had agreed with HSBC that the average rate over three days
would be used and whilst I note that certainly was discussed, I dont think there was any
agreement made that that would be the case. And no actual rates were discussed or
confirmed.
Im aware that Mr T thinks the prevailing market rate should have been applied but there is
no such rate. HSBC has made a commercial decision as to the rate it uses. It doesnt charge
a commission, and whilst its rates arent the best obtainable they are comparable to other
banks, and Mr T was free to check what other rates were available . Indeed I note that he
had a currency exchange company lined up to receive and exchange the money but chose
to proceed with HSBC.
I have to look at what would have happened if the transfer had gone through as planned. In
that event Mr and Mrs T would have received £287,096.43 on 1 November 2022 (being the
date HSBC returned the transfer). Instead they received £281,812.61 on 18 November and
the balance on 1 December 2022. So they have lost out on the interest they would have earned on that money. Mr T said in one of the calls that he would be putting the funds on
deposit. For that reason I think that HSBC should pay interest for the period Mr and Mrs T
were without the money.
In respect of the way their complaint was handled, some of HSBCs follow up letters to its
final response letter were a bit blunt, but overall I think it acted reasonably.
As regards Mr Ts response, the letter advising Mr T of the credit on 18 November 2022 set 
out the amount actually charged as £5. Im not aware that there were any other fees, though 
I have assumed by two fees being charged Mr T is referring to HSBCs exchange rate, which 
is not an additional fee, and I refer back to my provisional findings in that respect.
Having said that I agree that the information given to Mr T about fees wasnt clear. He was 
told a £5 charge would be applied, but was later told that that fee was only applicable to 
transfers of money from his account outside the EU. He was also told (at that later date) that 
receiving monies in was difficult to judge as HSBC doesnt have details of the other banks 
charges and exchange rates. Im not aware that Mr T was charged any fee by the sending 
bank, though if he was he would have been charged that in any event. From HSBCs point of 
view it told him he would be charged £5, which he was. So I dont intend to require HSBC to 
take any other action in that respect. 
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay to Mr and Mrs T:
Simple interest* at the yearly rate of 8% on £287,096.43 for the period 1 November until 
18 November 2022 (17 days).
Simple interest* at the yearly rate of 8% on £5,283.82 for the period 18 November until 
1 December 2022 (13 days).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman