DRN-2912176
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(FTP) didnt progress his claim to recover mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) and 
failed to refer the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr M contacted FTP to see if he had a claim for mis-sold PPI.  He gave 
authority for FTP to make initial checks with financial institutions.  These checks revealed 
that Mr M had had PPI with a company Ill call L.
In January 2020, FTP submitted a claim to L in respect of two loans theyd made to Mr M.  
He waited a number of months before contacted FTP in October to find out what was 
happening.  And, given the time that had passed, he wanted to know why his claim hadnt 
been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  FTP told him that they hadnt heard 
from L in response to the claim.  L had said they were still investigating and couldnt say how 
long their investigation might take.
Mr M contacted FTP again in November 2020.  This time he was told that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service also had a backlog of matters to investigate.  And, in FTPs view, it 
would be more efficient to allow L more time to respond.
Mr M still didnt receive an update from FTP and so, in March 2021, he complained about 
FTPs service.  FTP investigated his complaint, but didnt uphold it.  They explained they had 
to make enquiries about whether Mr M had had PPI with L, rather than just submitting a 
speculative claim.  Theyd not had the information they needed to do that until January 2020.
FTPs offices had been closed from late March until June 2020 due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.  But they said theyd chased L in July 2020 as Ls response was overdue.  They 
were told in late October that Mr Ms claim was still under investigation.  They received a 
similar response when they chased L in January 2021. 
In response to the specific issues raised by Mr M, FTP said theyd not referred his claim to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service because theyd not received a reply from L.  And they 
said there was no reason for them to delay Mr Ms claim, because they wouldnt get paid 
unless and until he received compensation.
FTP said they were happy to continue to pursue the claim on Mr Ms behalf.  But, if he 
wanted to cancel, they would send him a cancellation invoice in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with FTPs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded that FTP didnt need to do anything else to resolve the 
complaint.  He explained that claims management companies shouldnt refer claims to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service unnecessarily.  So he didnt think FTP had been wrong to 
allow L time to respond.  
And he said Mr M could cancel his agreement with FTP and pursue the matter himself if he 
wanted to  but FTP would be entitled to charge a fee for the work theyd done on his claim.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr Ms frustrated.  I can see why.  But I can only uphold his complaint if I think 
FTPs caused that frustration and upset.  And I dont think they have.
Ive looked at FTPs file.  They submitted a claim on his behalf promptly after theyd gathered 
the information to do that.  And theyve sought updates from L.  Ive only seen one 
substantial period where they did nothing  which was when their offices were closed in line 
with government Covid restrictions.  I dont think its fair to say they were responsible for that 
delay.
Ive seen FTP explained to Mr M that they dealt with L in line with guidelines given to claims 
management companies by the FCA.  Ive looked at that letter (for which our investigator 
gave Mr M a weblink).  I can see that it advises CMCs lenders were dealing with claims far 
more slowly.  And that a final response was typically taking well beyond 24 weeks.  So  
unfortunately  the delays in Mr Ms claim arent exceptional.
And I can see the FCA said they expected CMCs:
to act responsibly and professionally. In line with CMCOB 2.1.8G, we expect CMCs to 
take all reasonable steps to investigate the existence and merits of a complaint before 
referring it, with evidence of the merits, to the Ombudsman Service.
So it wouldnt be fair for me to say that FTP shouldve referred Mr Ms complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  as that would require them to disregard advice from the 
regulator.  And as I cant do that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about The Protection 
Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman