DRN-2879340
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited rejected his critical illness 
claim. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr L took out a level term assurance policy with life and critical illness 
insurance through a broker. 
Sadly, in July 2020 Mr L suffered a cardiac arrest and was induced into a coma. He then had 
an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) inserted. After he was discharged from 
hospital Mr L made a claim to Scottish Friendly, but it wasnt accepted. Scottish Friendly said 
that a cardiac arrest with an ICD insertion wasnt covered under the critical illness section of 
his policy. It also said it couldnt accept a claim for Mr L being induced into a coma, because 
he hadnt met the required definition in his policy. 
Mr L was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
had retrieved a copy of the terms and conditions from the brokers website and cardiac 
arrest was covered. 
Scottish Friendly said it hadnt provided Mr L with the terms and conditions he was referring 
to. But it had reviewed its file and wanted to offer £50 for the confusion it caused when 
reviewing Mr Ls claim. It said it didnt respond to Mr Ls request for further information on the 
definition of ICD and that it shouldve previously referred to ICD as a procedure instead of a 
condition in one of its letters. 
Our investigator didnt think Scottish Friendly had unfairly declined Mr Ls claim. She said 
Scottish Friendly had provided Mr L with a copy of the terms and conditions of his policy and 
his cardiac arrest and coma werent covered. And she felt the £50 Scottish Friendly had 
offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that a cardiac 
arrest with ICD was covered when he took out the policy and the policy documentation on 
the brokers website covers cardiac arrest.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr L feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions provided by Scottish Friendly that relate to Mr Ls 
policy and his cardiac arrest isnt covered. In the copy of the documents Mr L has provided 
to this service, I can see his cardiac arrest and ICD are specifically mentioned. But his copy 
refers to another insurer  not Scottish Friendly. 
I note Mr L was placed into a coma when he was in hospital. His policy defines a coma as 
the following; 
Coma
A state of unconsciousness with no reaction to external stimuli or internal needs which:
> requires the use of life support systems; and
> results in permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
Having considered the medical evidence provided to Scottish Friendly in line with the 
definition of a coma under Mr Ls policy, Im not satisfied his condition is covered. Im not 
persuaded the evidence shows the coma he was placed in resulted in a permanent 
neurological deficit with persisting symptoms. 
So, I cant fairly ask Scottish Friendly to accept Mr Ls critical illness claim. 
I note Mr L has said that he was certain cardiac arrest was covered when he took out the 
policy through the broker. He also feels there was misleading information on that brokers 
website. Im afraid these are points that will need to be answered by the broker. If Mr L is 
unhappy with the way his policy was sold, he will need to make a complaint to them. 
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly has said it shouldve provided a better service to Mr L when he asked 
whether the procedure to insert an ICD was covered. Its said it mistakenly referred to this as 
a condition and has offered £50 for this mistake. I appreciate this doesnt take away the 
disappointment Mr L will be experiencing with the decision on his claim. But I need to assess 
whether that £50 offer is fair in the circumstances. Having done so, it seems reasonable to 
me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld in part. Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited should pay Mr L £50 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
I make no other award against Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman