DRN-3125687
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society refused his cash withdrawal request.
What happened
Mr P says he went to a local Nationwide branch to withdraw about £40,000 in cash but 
Nationwide asked him a number of questions about the request and then refused it. He says 
the money is his and shouldnt be asked why he wanted to withdraw it. Mr P says he is 87 
years of age and in poor health. He questions why in those circumstances should his 
request for his own money be refused, and also says he would like an apology as well as 
compensation for what took place.
Nationwide says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to refuse a transaction 
request. It says it was entitled to ask Mr P why he needed the money and says he wouldnt 
provide it with a reasonable answer. Nationwide says Mr P said he would keep the money in 
a tin under his bed. It offered to send Mr P a cheque for the money or transfer it but he 
refused.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to refuse a 
transaction request. And thought it acted reasonably by following guidance in asking Mr P 
about it.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and maintains this is his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint.
I make clear that this is Mr Ps money and he is of course entitled to spend it as he wishes. 
So, I appreciate his frustration in these circumstances and about Nationwides questioning of 
him. But I hope Mr P also appreciates that Nationwide has a regulatory duty to protect its 
customers money and its own. And that fraud is a major problem for banks and building 
societies that has a significant impact on their customers.
So, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by questioning Mr P about the need to withdraw 
£40,000 in cash and by having concerns about him leaving the branch with that amount of 
money. I dont think Mr P was prepared to explain to Nationwide the real reason for the 
withdrawal and so I dont think Nationwide could fairly assess if it was appropriate to allow 
the withdrawal. I also dont think Mr P has explained to us why he needed the cash. 
I have also looked carefully at Mr Ps account terms and conditions which I think he would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. I think those terms and conditions make 
clear that Nationwide may refuse a transaction request in certain circumstances. So, it 
follows that I find in these circumstances that Nationwide acted in line with agreed terms and 
conditions by refusing Mr Ps withdrawal request and didnt act unfairly or make a mistake.
Overall, I think Nationwide had legitimate and reasonable concerns about this request and 
Mr P didnt provide it with any real explanation why he needed to withdraw £40,000 in cash. I 
also think that Nationwide fairly offered reasonable alternatives such a cheque or bank 
transfer. For those reasons I cant fairly order Nationwide carry out the withdrawal or pay Mr 
P compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman