DRN-3154057
The complaint
Miss H has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance. She isnt happy that it 
limited the amount it would pay under her home insurance policy after she made a claim. 
What happened
Miss Hs home was broken into and she made a claim under her Lloyds home insurance 
policy. She wasnt happy about a number of aspects of the way it dealt with the claim. Lloyds 
initially wouldnt pay a claim in relation to her desktop computer as it believed it was broken 
at the time of theft. But it later accepted the computer wasnt broken and just needed 
updating. And so, it asked its agent to look at replacing the computer amongst other things. 
But it turned out the computer couldnt be replaced, and the agent suggested to Miss H that 
the computer was worth about £2,049.
However, when Lloyds looked to settle the claim it only paid £1,500. This was because the 
policy had a high-risk single item limit of £1,500. 
So, Miss H complained to Lloyds. It looked into things for her and apologised for the fact that 
its agent gave Miss H incorrect information. It offered her £100 for the poor service provided 
which included the incorrect information provided by its agent. As Miss H still wasnt happy 
she complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought that 
Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably when it applied the high-risk single item limit in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. And that its offer of £100 compensation in 
acknowledgement of its errors and poor service was fair. 
But, Miss H didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand why Miss H isnt happy here as she simply 
wants the full replacement value of her computer, I dont think Lloyds have done anything 
wrong. Ill explain why.
I think it is clear the desktop computer is classed as high value under the policy and Miss H 
appears to accept this. She just feels the clause wasnt brought to her attention and that she 
should be paid the full cost of a replacement. 
But I agree the policy is clear that there is a high-risk single item limit of £1,500 so I cant say 
that Lloyds has acted unreasonably here. I note the computer is over 8 years old and 
towards the end of what the manufacturer tends to consider is the economic life of the 
computer. So, the offer doesnt feel unfair. 
Furthermore, I know Miss H says that she took the policy out a long time ago and wasnt fully 
aware of the restriction of cover. But Lloyds have said they sent updated policy 
documentation each year which clearly shows the restriction of cover and this is also 
highlighted in the policy summary. And Ive listened to a telephone call between Miss H and 
Lloyds during the early stages of the claim and I think the restrictions in cover were made 
clear during the call. 
As such, although I accept that the appointed agent shouldnt have told Miss H that she may 
get around £2,000 for the computer, I think Lloyds made her reasonably aware of the 
restriction during the call. Plus, Miss H chose this level of cover when she initially took the 
policy out. So, I think Lloyds offer of £100 compensation to cover any loss of expectation 
here, in addition to some poor service, feels fair.
Finally, I know Miss H went through quite an ordeal and that her son was very upset 
following the break-in. But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the clear stress and difficulties 
caused by the burglary. And as our investigator highlighted if Miss H has any remaining 
concerns about her claim she will have to raise this complaint separately.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman