DRN-2759146
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, 
trading as Thesis Servicing, during the deferment process for his student loan account.
 
What happened
Mr G had student loans in 1990s. There are now a number of businesses involved:
Thesis are responsible for the management one of Mr Gs loan accounts. 
Another company, E, are responsible for the management of Mr Gs other student 
loan account.
Another organisation, S, are responsible for the deferment process.
Mr Gs loan is one that can be deferred if the relevant criteria are met. Mr G has met the 
criteria to defer his loan repayments for a number of years.
 
In 2020, Mr G began the deferment process. He submitted his deferment application as he 
had in the years before. He didnt receive a reply until April 2020 when he began receiving 
contact from Thesis asking about repayment of his loan. Mr G complained because, as far 
as he was aware, hed completed the process to defer his loan repayments.
 
Initially, Thesis responded to Mr Gs complaint to say they had received notification from S 
that Mr Gs application for deferment had been marked incomplete and that S had written to 
Mr G to explain they needed further information to continue with the deferral process. 
But Mr G hadnt received any letters from S about this. So he replied to Thesis to tell them. 
Thesis sent a further response to Mr G. In this response, Thesis said sorry for saying S had 
written to Mr G  as theyd since received confirmation from S that they hadnt actually done 
this. They offered Mr G £50 to apologise for this and another 57 pence to compensate him 
for a telephone call. 
Mr G didnt accept this. He said, Thesis had admitted making an error and as E and S had 
already paid him £100 each in relation to the problems hed had with his deferment 
application, he felt Thesis should do the same for the maladministration of their complaint 
investigation. He said that Thesis put unnecessary pressure on him via letters and phone 
calls to chase payments. He said he did everything he could to cooperate. 
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint. She thought Thesis offer of £50 and the 
additional 57 pence was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint. In 
summary, she said it was reasonable for Thesis to have acted on the information they 
received from S at the time, and they apologised for the incorrect information in their final 
response that was sent to Mr G.
 
Mr G didnt agree. He said:
1) Thesis admitted maladministration. 
2) The initial complaint outcome from Thesis was sent hours before the internal 
deadline to respond to his complaint.
3) It was more reasonable for Thesis to explain the reason why there were delays in 
responding to the complaint, rather than guess what E and S had done when 
investigating complaints about them.
4) Assumptions had been made about the reasons why Thesis had been contacting 
him. In one call on Saturday morning 21 March 2021 he received a call chasing late 
payments only and this put pressure on him at the weekend during the COVID-19 
pandemic.
5) Thesis delayed responding to him when he sought clarity over the latter after the 
outcome.
6) His income does not meet the minimum income threshold to start paying back his 
student loan and he feels hes been made out as trying to deceive S. This upsets 
Mr G and causes upset and great distress.
7) There hasnt been acknowledgment that people with disabilities are 
disproportionately affected by service issues caused by firms.
8) Thesis reached a decision without seeing evidence and this caused a greater level of 
distress compared to S and E so more compensation can be justified.
9) The firm attempted to smear his reputation by providing background information with 
little to no relevance to the current case. Mr G takes this personally because of his 
disabilities.
10) Thesis had plenty of opportunities to carefully word their initial outcome letter.
11)  The follow up emails lacked humility(sic) without a meaningful apology.
As the investigator wasnt able to resolve the complaint, its now been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my decision to address each of Mr Gs points individually. 
1) Thesis admitted maladministration. 
Thesis have agreed their final response letter contained information that was inaccurate. 
They dont agree that their earlier contact with Mr G, in March 2020, was wrong. 
2) The initial complaint outcome from Thesis was sent hours before the internal 
deadline to respond to his complaint.
When Mr G complained, Thesis tried to get clarification from S about the status of Mr Gs 
deferment application. But because of the pandemic, they didnt get a full reply from S 
straight away. Thesis then made a decision to respond to Mr Gs complaint without having 
received a reply to their questions from S. 
Mr G thinks Thesis were wrong to do this. I can understand why he feels it might have been 
better to wait for a reply from S. But Thesis also wanted to make sure theyd responded to 
Mr G within the deadline. I dont think they were wrong to do that. It also wasnt wrong that 
they responded so close to the deadline. 
3) It was more reasonable for Thesis to explain the reason why there were delays in 
responding to the complaint, rather than guess what E and S had done when 
investigating complaints about them.Thesis responded to Mr Gs complaint based on the information they had at the time.
 
4) Assumptions had been made about the reasons why Thesis had been contacting 
him. In one call on Saturday morning 21 March 2021 he received a call chasing late 
payments only and this put pressure on him at the weekend during the COVID-19 
pandemic.
When Thesis called Mr G on 21 March 2020, he explained that hed applied for deferment, 
so Thesis said theyd contact S to find out what had happened. Thesis did contact S.  I 
understand that Mr G is unhappy with this contact from Thesis but, at the time, they were 
acting on the information provided to them by S. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact this had on Mr G. Hes told us he felt pressured by 
Thesis during the telephone call which took place on a weekend during the pandemic. I dont 
doubt it was distressing to receive a call about his student loans when he believed theyd 
been deferred and had received no contact from S to say otherwise. But, as soon as Mr G 
told Thesis during this call what had happened and asked to log a complaint, no further 
letters or calls were made to him asking for payments. Until Mr G told them during this 
conversation, Thesis had no reason to suspect anything was wrong. And they apologised for 
calling him. 
For these reasons, Ive found the impact of this issue is different to the impact of the final 
response letter  which I address later in this decision. So Thesis doesnt need to pay 
compensation to Mr G in relation to their initial attempts to contact him about the deferment 
of his student loan. 
5) Thesis delayed responding to him when he sought clarity over the latter after the 
outcome.
Ive reviewed all the emails exchanged after the final response letter was issued in May 
2020. Ive found Thesis responded within a reasonable amount of time to each and 
apologised to Mr G for the wrong information and offered him £50 in their email of 3 June 
2020. So they had taken steps to rectify their error within three weeks, which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
6) His income does not meet the minimum income threshold to start paying back his 
student loan and he feels hes been made out as trying to deceive S. This upsets 
Mr G and causes upset and great distress.
When Mr G received Thesis letter, he had already received a response from S 
acknowledging they hadnt written to him and had also told Thesis that hed received no 
further contact from S after submitting his deferment application. 
Thesis later acknowledged this wrong information caused Mr G some distress, so offered 
him £50 in recognition of that and apologised. 
I dont think Thesis were trying to blame Mr G, but were explaining why they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. So, I think £50 is fair and reasonable in recognition of the 
distress caused to Mr G by saying something that wasnt true in this letter  taking into 
account Mr Gs particular circumstances. 
Thesis also later agreed to cover the cost of a call Mr G made to an old telephone number 
that was included on a letter from them. I find this is fair in the circumstances since Thesis 
have accepted the number shouldnt have been on the letter. So in total, Thesis offered Mr G £50.57 and for the reasons Ive explained, I find this is fair and reasonable in resolution of 
this complaint.
 
7) There hasnt been acknowledgment that people with disabilities are 
disproportionately affected by service issues caused by firms.
I understand Mr Gs point. But in this decision, Im only considering Thesis actions and the 
impact they had on Mr G. And in doing so, I have considered carefully what Mr G has told us 
about the impact these events had on him.
8) Thesis reached a decision without seeing evidence and this caused a greater level of 
distress compared to S and E so more compensation can be justified.
Because Thesis chose to respond to Mr G before they had received a response from S, they 
got some of the details wrong when they said that S had written to Mr G about the deferment 
application. If Thesis had waited before responding, theyd have known that S hadnt 
contacted Mr G. But as Ive explained under point 6, I dont think it was wrong of Thesis to 
have responded when they did. 
9) The firm attempted to smear his reputation by providing background information with 
little to no relevance to the current case. Mr G takes this personally because of his 
disabilities.
I havent found there was anything inappropriate or unprofessional in the tone of this letter. 
Thesis gave this level of detail to show theyd taken Mr Gs concerns seriously and 
addressed the concerns hed raised.
10) Thesis had plenty of opportunities to carefully word their initial outcome letter.
Ive already explained what my findings are about the letter under points 6 and 9. I havent 
found there was anything wrong with the wording of Thesis final response letter.
 
11)  The follow up emails lacked humility(sic) without a meaningful apology.
Thesis said in these emails that they were sorry for the wrong information theyd included in 
their final response. I found they were professional in tone and appropriately apologetic. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Thesis didnt mean these apologies. 
My final decision
Thesis has already made an offer to pay £50.57 to settle the complaint and I find this offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.
So my final decision is that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Thesis Servicing 
should pay Mr G £50.57, if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman