DRN-2962650
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr D entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car was around eight years old and had a mileage of 76,300.
Mr D says that the cars reversing lights didnt work, and its front lights flickered so he 
complained to the supplying dealer. The car was taken in and repaired. Mr D says that in 
December 2018 the car had an issue with its diesel particulate filter (DPF) and went into 
limp mode. The car was again returned to the supplying dealer for repairs.
While the car was being repaired, Mr D complained to Moneybarn about its condition. 
Moneybarn contacted the supplying dealer, who said that the car had been returned to Mr D 
shortly after he had made his complaint. However, one month later Mr D advised Moneybarn 
that the car had re-entered limp mode and had again displayed an issue with the DPF. He 
also told it that the car had broken down on a public highway and that it wasnt covered by a 
valid insurance policy. Moneybarn agreed to recover the car. Moneybarn then arranged for 
the car to be inspected by an independent engineer.
The independent engineer examined the car in January 2019 and found that it couldnt be 
started due to a flat battery. They advised that the battery should either be charged or 
replaced and that once this had been done the car could then be inspected. Moneybarn 
arranged for the battery to be replaced and re-organised the cars inspection.
The independent engineer next inspected the car in March 2019. They noted that the car 
had now been standing for a prolonged period of time without use. The independent 
engineer said that due to how the car had been stored with other cars they could only carry 
out a limited investigation and werent able to take it out for test drive. The engineer said 
they were able to start the car, but they found that although the engine started it ran poorly 
with misfires and smoke emissions. Codes were also present in relation to the glow plug 
circuit and battery charging system.
The independent engineer concluded in their report that the faults they found present with 
the car wouldnt have been present at the point of sale due to the amount of time that had 
passed since inception of the agreement together with the number of additional miles driven 
by Mr D which amounted to around 4,800. The engineer said the car couldnt have remained 
in service use in its present condition.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint about the car. It said that the issue with the DPF 
was not a fault but due to the way the car had been used meaning the DPF hadnt 
regenerated and had required a manual regeneration. It also said that issues with the cars 
electrics could arise at any time and that repairs of this nature were part of the expected 
maintenance costs of running a second-hand car. Moneybarn said the car had been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr D disagreed with Moneybarns decision and complained to this service. He said the car 
had been faulty from the point of sale and he asked that he be able to reject the car and for 
the agreement to be cancelled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said that 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) the quality of the car took into account things 
like its age and mileage and that as this was a used car a reasonable person would not to 
expect it to have been fault free due to wear and tear. He said that looking at the 
independent engineers report he was not persuaded that the faults complained of by Mr D 
were present at the point of supply.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think the way he had used the 
car had caused the issue with the DPF and that it had been faulty when hed acquired it.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies of the independent engineers reports from January and March 2019 but 
unfortunately, I havent seen copies of the job cards regarding the repairs carried out by the 
supplying dealer as these cant be supplied. However, I think the issues with the car arent 
disputed save that Mr D disagrees the DPF didnt regenerate itself due to the way the car 
was used by him.
Looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but I am 
not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr D is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the CRA 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here,  the car wasn't  new being  eight  years  old and had a mileage  of 76,300,  so I think  a 
reasonable  person  would  have  expected  there  to be issues  after a reasonable  period  of 
time regarding  maintenance  and repair  due to wear  and tear. 
Ive seen that around the time Mr D acquired the car there were issues with its reversing and 
front lights. Ive also seen these were repaired by the supplying dealer and it appears these 
repairs were at no cost to Mr D. I therefore accept that there were faults with the car at the point of supply but that doesnt mean that Mr D is now entitled to reject the car. This is 
because it appears from the evidence Ive seen that those repairs were successful and 
accepted by Mr D. I havent seen that the issues with the lights were raised again by Mr D 
with Moneybarn or the supplying dealer. So, on the evidence that Ive seen Im satisfied the 
car was repaired satisfactorily.
The issue with the DPF arose around three months after Mr D had acquired the car and he 
says that he was told by the supplying dealer this was due to the way he had used the car. I 
appreciate Mr D disputes that the car wasnt used for long distances but if the car is used 
mainly on short journeys or ones that are at a slow speed then this issue may occur even if 
there are occasional longer journeys. I cant reasonably say that issues with the DPF are 
necessarily due to the part being faulty and I havent seen any evidence that the part wasnt 
operating as it should due to any other reason than the way the car was being used. This 
would therefore be an issue with wear and tear and one which could be reasonably expected 
to arise from time to time.
Ive seen that the DPF was regenerated in December 2018 by the supplying dealer and that 
it would appear a similar issue arose around one month later. By the time the car had gone 
into limp mode a second time Mr D had had the car for around five months and had been 
able to drive around 4,8000 miles in it.
When the car was inspected by the independent engineer in March 2019 it had been unused 
and standing for around three months which will have had an impact on its condition. The 
battery had also been changed. Ive seen the view of the independent engineer was that the 
car couldnt have been in the condition it was now in as Mr D wouldnt have been able to use 
it for the amount of time and number of miles that he had. I think Moneybarn acted 
reasonably in accepting the independent engineers opinion.
So, while I appreciate the car has had two issues with the DPF which caused it to go into 
limp mode I dont have enough evidence to say the DPF was actually faulty as opposed to 
this being an issue with wear and tear which would be reasonably expected in a car of this 
age and mileage. I also think that had the DPF been faulty from the point of supply then Mr 
D wouldnt have been able to use it as much as he has. 
I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr D but Im not upholding his complaint. I think 
that its more likely than not that the issue with the DPF arose due to wear and tear and that 
the car would be considered durable in light of its age and mileage by a reasonable person.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman