DRN-2104076
The complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold a Life Stages Repayments Cover insurance policy.
The policy was sold by a third party, but St Andrews has taken responsibility for the sale and 
this complaint. So, Ill refer to it as the seller from now on in my decision.
What happened
Mr H took out a personal loan with a bank in 2009. St Andrews subsequently sold him the 
policy over the phone to protect the loan repayments if he couldnt work because of disability 
or unemployment. It also included carer cover. The policy cost £28.50 a month and provided 
up to 12 monthly benefit payments of £300 per disability and unemployment claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says the policy was added without his knowledge or consent. St Andrews says it no 
longer has a copy of the call in which the sale took place. So, I cant be certain as to how it 
was presented to him. Instead Ive taken into account experience of how St Andrews sold 
these policies over the phone around the time together with both parties comments. 
Ive seen a call script from the time of the sale  and I think its more likely than not that a 
similar, if not the same, script would have been used when Mr H bought the policy. And, on 
balance, I consider the script would have prompted the adviser to make it clear Mr H didnt 
have to take the policy and that his agreement was required before the cover could be 
added. 
The acceptance letter and policy schedule Mr H was sent, albeit just after the sale, thanked 
him for choosing our optional Life Stages Repayments Cover.
So, with the limited information I have available to me, I think its likely that Mr H knew the 
policy was optional and agreed to buy it, knowing he didnt have to  even if he remembers 
things differently now. 
I think St Andrews recommended the policy to Mr H, so it had to check that the policy was 
right for him. I can see that it took some steps to do that, but I cant see it did everything it 
should have. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
right for him in any case. For example, he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by 
the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover. 
Mr H says he would have been entitled to sick pay for more than 6 months but less than 12 
months from his employer and was also entitled to enhanced redundancy pay. He says that 
meant he didnt need the policy. But the policy would pay the monthly benefit in addition to 
his sick pay and redundancy pay, and for longer. It would have allowed him to use the other 
means he says he had available to him to cover his other expenses at what could have been 
a difficult time for him if he wasnt working. Overall, I think the policy provided Mr H with 
useful additional protection.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr H about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont believe better information about the policy would 
have put him off taking it out. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr H has lost out because of how St Andrews 
sold him the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman