DRN-3170393
The complaint
Mr S complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited lent to him without carrying out adequate 
checks and that the loan was unaffordable.
Mr S is represented by Mrs S but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr S throughout 
this decision.
What happened
H & T Pawnbrokers provided Mr S with a loan for £200 in September 2017. Mr S says that 
proper checks werent carried out before the loan was provided and that he hasnt been able 
to repay the debt. He said that had adequate checks taken place, H & T Pawnbrokers would 
have realised that he wasnt employed at the time, had income from benefits of £301, had 
several other outstanding debts as well as defaults and a county court judgement on his 
credit file. He said that further checks of his bank statements would have shown he had a 
gambling problem.
Mr S says that the H & T Pawnbrokers site stated that earnings needed to be at least £750 
a month. He said he didnt have this and couldnt afford to repay the loan. He says this loan 
has caused him anxiety and that he has offered to repay the original amount lent but H & T 
Pawnbrokers hasnt accepted this.
H & T Pawnbrokers issued a final response to Mr S complaint in May 2021. It said that it 
considered a variety of information when assessing an applicants credit worthiness. It said 
that the information submitted by Mr S on application and his credit score met its lending 
criteria. It said that Mr S provided information about his income and expenses, as part of the 
application process and confirmed that he wasnt in any financial difficulty. It said based on 
the information the loan was affordable.
Mr S didnt agree with H & T Pawnbrokers response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough to say that this complaint should be upheld. 
She didnt think there was anything in the information Mr S provided or the information H & T 
Pawnbrokers shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr S had said.
Mr S didnt agree without adjudicators decision. He reiterated that had adequate checks 
been carried out then his low income would have been identified and had further checks 
taken place given Mr S low income then these would have shown he wasnt managing his 
money, was gambling and was relying on family members for support.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the loan was provided, H & T Pawnbrokers gathered information about Mr S 
income and expenses and carried out a credit check. Given only one loan was 
provided, I thought these checks would have been proportionate as long as the 
information received didnt raise and concerns.
The information recorded on Mr S application said Mr S was in full time employment 
working as an administrator. The monthly income was recorded as £17,000. We 
asked H & T Pawnbrokers about this amount and it said it was assuming this figure 
should have been £1,700. While this could have been a typing mistake without 
further evidence to show that a different figure was provided by Mr S and that such a 
figure was relied on in the calculations, it is hard to say that reasonable income check 
took place.
Putting the issue of the income figure to one side, I thought the credit checks raised 
concerns that meant further questions should have been asked. The credit check 
showed that Mr S had a county court judgement against him and had two delinquent 
accounts recorded in the previous 12 months. I thought the information received was 
such that further questions should have been asked. Had this happened I thought it 
likely that H & T Pawnbrokers would have realised that Mr S was struggling to 
manage his money. 
Overall, I thought further checks should have taken place and if this had happened H & T 
Pawnbrokers would have realised lending to Mr S wasnt sustainably affordable.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. H & T Pawnbrokers didnt. It asked for clarification 
saying it was accepted the credit check results were consistent with the type of customers it 
lent to but then said further checks were needed. It said the decision wasnt consistent with 
other decisions it had received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
H & T Pawnbrokers needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment 
amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that H & T Pawnbrokers should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. 
As I have explained I think the initial checks carried out would have been reasonable so long 
as the information gathered didnt raise concerns. In this case the income information was 
unrealistic, and I think the credit check results meant further questions were needed.
Mr S has said he was on a low income at the time, lower than the minimum he says was 
required by H & T Pawnbrokers. Mr S was asked about his income, but the results recorded 
by H & T Pawnbrokers of £17,000 werent consistent with the role Mr S said he was 
employed in. I note the comments made that the input was an error and assumed to be 
£1,700 a month but I have nothing further to support this. As I think further checks would 
have shown Mr S to be on a low income I think this raises concerns.
Putting the income disparity to one side, I think the credit checks raised concerns. I note 
H & T Pawnbrokers comments. However, as I have explained, while some adverse 
information may not be unexpected, in this case I think the information shown in the results 
suggested that Mr S was struggling to manage his money. He had a county court judgement 
recorded and the delinquent accounts werent historic but within the previous 12 months. 
Therefore, I think that H & T Pawnbrokers should have carried out further checks to ensure 
Mr S could afford the repayments. Had it done further checks I think it would have realised 
that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr S.
I note the comment H & T Pawnbrokers has made about other cases but I treat each case 
based on its individual merits and in this case I think further checks were needed and as 
these would have shown the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr S, I am upholding this 
complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress H & T Pawnbrokers should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent to Mr S.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce H & T Pawnbrokers liability in this case for that 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I uphold this complaint, Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H & T Pawnbrokers 
should:
treat any payments made towards this loan as though they were payments of capital 
and waive any interest and charges such that Mr S is only required to repay the 
capital amount borrowed. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments these 
should be refunded along with interest of 8% simple a year on all overpayments from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
if an outstanding balance remains, work with Mr S to agree an affordable repayment 
plan;
remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr S credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires H & T Pawnbrokers to take off tax from this interest. 
H & T Pawnbrokers must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H & 
T Pawnbrokers should take the actions set out above n resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman