DRN-1319254
The complaint
Mr C bought a kitchen using a Fixed Sum Loan agreement provided by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays). He complains about 
Barclays actions regarding the buy now pay later (BNPL) aspect of the agreement.  
What happened
In April 2018, Mr C ordered a new kitchen and financed the purchase through Barclays. The 
agreement said the first monthly payment would fall due 12 months after Barclays paid the 
supplier, and if he repaid the balance within 12 months  the BNPL period - no interest 
would be chargeable.
 
In May 2018, Mr C contacted Barclays as he was unhappy with the installation for various 
reasons including damaged and missing items. Barclays agreed with him and were in 
contact with the suppliers of the kitchen. The final work was carried out in October 2018, and 
Barclays agreed with Mr C to extend the BNPL period to October 2019. But Mr C has 
provided text messages he received from Barclays in May 2019 telling him his BNPL period 
expired that month. Subsequently, hes spoken to Barclays on several occasions following 
receipt of further texts and calls from them saying hes in arrears and that could lead to his 
credit rating being affected. 
Mr C complained to Barclays and was told that theyd mark the account forward until 
October 2019 in line with their previous agreement and offered to pay him £50, but the calls 
and texts persisted. Mr C brought his complaint to us and said the terms of a mortgage 
application hed made may have been affected by data recorded by Barclays on his credit 
file. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He said Barclays should have marked the account 
forward until October 2019 when they said they would. Our investigator said hed seen no 
evidence that Mr Cs mortgage terms had been affected but asked him to provide any he 
had. He said as Mr Cs credit file had been affected, Barclays should pay him £300 as 
compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience their mistakes caused.
Barclays accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr C didnt. He said his credit file was 
showing him as being in arrears. He said that when hed asked for a settlement figure it was 
£3,500 more than it should be. He said he felt the level of compensation should be higher. 
Our investigator looked into things further and found since hed issued his opinion of the 
complaint, that Barclays had dealt separately with the credit file and settlement figure. 
Theyd removed the incorrect data reported on his credit file and offered Mr C compensation 
for those aspects of the complaint. Mr C was given the right to refer the resolution proposed 
by Barclays to us if he wished but he didnt do so. He said he felt the £300 awarded by our 
investigator for the remaining issues  repeated incorrect contact chasing for arrears  was 
insufficient. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that Barclays were wrong to chase Mr C for payment between May 
and October 2019  theyd agreed to extend the BNPL period. Mr Cs credit file has now 
been corrected and hes now repaid the finance on the BNPL terms. So the only issue for 
me to decide is the level of compensation that I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for the repeated incorrect contact. 
Barclays have accepted that Mr C was never in arrears on his agreement, but they chased 
him by phone, text and letter over a six month period. In that time, Mr C contacted Barclays 
on several occasions to explain they were wrong, and he wasnt in arrears, but the chasing 
continued. 
Barclays admit they incorrectly logged late payments on his credit file. He tells me this 
caused the failure of a mobile phone contract purchase and may have affected a mortgage 
application he made. Hes acknowledged though that he cant provide any evidence of the 
problems affecting his mortgage. 
While I cant be certain of the impact the markers on the credit file had, I have seen Mr Cs 
full credit report from November 2019. I can see there was no other adverse information 
reported, other than arrears on his agreement with Barclays. Mr C has not been able to 
provide any evidence of detriment the marker caused him. In any event, as Ive said, thats 
now been corrected. 
Our investigator recommended Barclays should pay Mr C £300 for the inconvenience 
caused, but Mr C told him he felt the compensation should be in excess of £2,000. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mr C and Barclays have said, and I appreciate the problems the 
repeated incorrect contact caused him. But having done so, I feel Mr Cs suggestion is more 
than Id award for this type of complaint. 
Putting things right
Given the timeframe, persistence and volume of the contact Mr C received from Barclays - 
despite his best efforts to tell them they were wrong - and the undoubted distress and 
frustration this caused him, I don't think our investigator's recommendation goes far enough.  
But Mr C hasnt provided any evidence that the problems affected his mortgage application.
Ive thought carefully about what I think Barclays should do to put things right and have 
asked Barclays to increase their offer to Mr C to £500. Im pleased to say that theyve agreed 
to do so.
Ive let Mr C know about this new offer, but he remained unhappy with it. Ive considered 
what he said and, while Im sorry to disappoint him, I think the award of £500 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance should pay Mr C £500 for the reasons outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman