DRN-3666555
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the service he received from Vitality Health Limited when 
submitting a claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues  our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. The facts 
are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Having suffered a serious heart condition Mr W submitted a claim to Vitality. He sent 
the form twice but it was over three weeks later when he called to find out what was 
happening that he was advised, after 30 minutes holding, what the policy would 
cover. Mr W wasnt given a promised call back from the cardiac support team and 
needed to chase more than once to find out what was happening. I can see the 
claims process was both frustrating and stressful for Mr W. The relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and 
fairly. I dont find that they did so here and am pleased to note that Vitality has 
acknowledged this and apologised. I agree some compensation is merited.
I understand that Mr W feels the payment recommended by our investigator is 
insufficient to recognise the time spent claiming and the stress that he was caused. 
But taking everything into account including the timescale and the fact that Vitality 
funded a consultation that wasnt covered by his policy, I find that a total of £150 is 
fair in all the circumstances. I see that £100 has already been paid.
Vitality was entitled to request medical information to assess Mr Ws claim. 
I dont find that Mr W was entitled to a refund of all the premiums paid  as any claim 
covered by the policy whilst Vitality was on risk would have been met. 
For completeness I would add that this decision doesnt cover the sale of the policy.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Vitality Health Limited should pay Mr W additional compensation in 
the sum of £50, if not already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman