DRN-4340505
The complaint
Mr H complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who wouldnt cover the cost of repairing 
his device, under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H dropped his device and made a claim against his policy, as the screen became 
damaged. UKI accepted the claim and repaired the device. After Mr H had received the 
device back from UKI, he noticed that the screen began to fail. It formed lines and eventually 
began to fade to black. Mr H believed that the screen was failing as there was poor 
connection to the motherboard. 
So, Mr H contacted UKI and spoke to its advisor. He also sent the advisor images and a 
video of the screen as it was failing. UKI advised Mr H to return the device for further 
investigation. 
Mr H returned the device to UKI. On receipt, UKI told Mr H that there was fresh damage 
namely a scratch and a chip. And as such, this invalidated the warranty. UKI told Mr H, that 
he would need to make another claim and he would need to pay the excess. 
Mr H requested the return of the device, so that he could decide what to do. On return he 
noticed the damage. But as he said that he had evidence that the device had no damage 
(except for the issue with the screen failing) he complained to UKI. 
UKI maintained that the fresh damage had invalidated the warranty. It also said that it had 
video evidence of the unboxing of the device when it had been returned to them. And this 
video evidence showed that there was damage to the screen.  Mr H asked UKI to supply him 
with this video evidence. But it said that it was unable to do so. It did however, supply photos 
of the damage that it said showed the scratch and chipped screen. 
Mr H noticed that there was no data on the photos that UKI relied upon to say when the 
images were taken. So, he further complained to UKI. 
UKI maintained its position in its final response. And as Mr H was given his referral rights, he 
referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Mr H had 
provided expert evidence that confirmed that the screen failure, was due to a poor repair. 
Our investigator also said, he was unable to determine how and when the new damage 
occurred to the screen namely the scratch and chip. But he recommended that UKI repair 
the issue with the failing screen. And put the laptop back to how it wouldve been had the 
initial repair been completed correctly.
 
Mr H accepted the view. UKI did not. It questioned the legitimacy of the expert evidence, as 
it said that the evidence was only provided due to Mr H supplying photos to his expert, rather 
than the expert having physically inspected the device. So, it asked for an ombudsmans 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And Ill explain why I think this is fair. 
I thank both parties for all the evidence and comments theyve both provided, which Ive read 
and considered. I think the main issues of this complaint is whether UKI were fair to decline 
the warranty repair, due to fresh damage it said was on the laptop, when it was returned. 
UKI said that when it received the laptop back, there was fresh damage namely a scratch 
and a chip. It said that due to the fresh damage this invalidated the warranty repair and Mr H 
would need to make another claim and pay an additional excess before it would carry out a 
repair.
UKI also said that it had a video of the unpacking, which showed the damage was already 
on the laptop before it arrived back to them. I asked UKI for a copy of this video, especially 
as Mr H had previously asked for the same. It said that there wasnt one available but there 
were images that were taken on the day that the laptop was received by them. 
I have viewed the images and I note that there are no date stamps on any of the images that 
UKI rely on. I again asked why this was the case. UKI said that this data mightve been 
removed by one of its suppliers due to data protection. But I think had I been provided with 
the video that UKI initially told Mr H existed and wouldve corroborated its account that the 
screen arrived damaged to them, then this would have been very persuasive evidence to 
support this. 
The next best evidence would be the photos that UKI stated supported its contention that the 
screen had fresh damage on arrival. But Mr H said that the EXIF data would have to be 
removed deliberately. And given that UKI appear to be accepting that this was done, I think 
this weakens its position that there was evidence of damage once the laptop arrived. 
Mr H said that when he returned the laptop to UKI, prior to doing so he took images as well 
as videos of the laptop before he dispatched it to UKI. I have reviewed all of the images and 
the videos. And I think they clearly show that the only damage to the laptop was the fading 
screen. There was no other physical damage seen. 
Mr H confirmed and supplied me with an email/communication trail that he had with UKI on 
12 October 2022. I asked UKI for any communications that it had on that day with Mr H. It 
said that there were no communications that had occurred between Mr H and anyone at 
UKI. However, I have seen the communications and I have seen that Mr H sent the images 
and videos. Incidentally, UKI has maintained that it hadnt had sight of these videos or 
images before, but the evidence I have seen is contrary to this.  
On balance, I cant say exactly when the damage occurred. I think its more likely than not 
that there was no damage when it left Mr H. Had UKI provided me with the EXIF data on the 
images or the unpacking video, then this wouldve been persuasive evidence that supported 
its contentions. But this wasnt done here. 
In any event, I think the videos that Im satisfied UKI had on 12 October 2022, show that 
there was an issue with the screen as there were lines as well as a fading screen. Im 
satisfied that UKI was aware of this damage. Further, Mr H has provided evidence from experts that confirm that the repair that had been 
carried out was poor, which caused the fading screen and lines. I cant see any evidence 
from UKI that it considered the issue with the laptop, before it returned it to Mr H. 
Accordingly, I think that UKI were unfair not to have carried out the repair of the screen 
under the existing claim, as I think it was clear that there was an issue with the screen prior 
to the damage. So, I think its reasonable that UKI either cover the cost of the repair of the 
laptop. Or repair the laptop. And no further excess ought to be charged for this. 
I also think that Mr H was inconvenienced by UKI not examining the issue with the laptop 
before returning it to him. So, for the trouble and upset caused, I think it should pay Mr H 
£100 compensation. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct UKI as outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
To put matters right, UK Insurance Limited to:
Repair the laptop or make a cash settlement for Mr H to obtain his own contractors 
to repair the laptop, under the existing claim, with no further excess charge levied.
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
UK Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman