DRN-2977118
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mrs B and Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the PPI.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The PPI started at the same time as Mrs B and Mr Hs mortgage. Theres very little from the 
time of the sale to go on. But given how long ago it was, that isnt surprising. So I dont think 
the lack of information is, in itself, evidence that anything was wrong with the sale. 
Mrs B and Mr H have said they didnt want the cover, it wasnt optional and they dont think 
they were aware they had it. But given the time that has passed, I wouldnt expect them to 
remember the sale vividly or recall all that was discussed. So what Mrs B and Mr H have 
said isnt, on balance, enough on its own to make me think Halifax didnt give them a choice 
about taking the PPI or added it without their knowledge or agreement. And I havent seen 
anything else to make me think that this is most likely what Halifax did. 
For example, Ive nothing to make me think that Halifax wouldnt usually at this time have 
given customers like Mrs B and Mr H a choice about the PPI and got their agreement to it 
before setting it up for them with their mortgage.
Taking everything into account, what I have isnt enough to make me think Halifax didnt 
present the cover as optional - or added it without Mrs B and Mr H knowing and agreeing. 
But I can understand why they might not remember this, given how long ago the sale was.
The PPI was cover to help protect Mrs B and Mr Hs mortgage in case of unemployment or 
disability. Halifax says it mightve recommended the PPI. Mrs B and Mr H say Halifax didnt 
recommend the PPI to them. But if Halifax did recommend the PPI, this would mean Halifax 
had to do more - and had to check the PPI was right for Mrs B and Mr H. So I think its fair to 
assess things on that basis  as it places on Halifax a higher level of responsibility for the 
sale. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right 
for Mrs B and Mr H. 
I say this bearing in mind that Mrs B and Mr H seem to have had a need for the cover. The 
cover was on Mr H and his work sick pay wouldve lasted less than three months, from what 
hes told us. For a successful sickness or unemployment claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for 
up to twelve months  and on top of any work pay Mr H received. With this in mind, what Ive 
seen makes me think the policy couldve been useful to Mrs B and Mr H if they needed to 
claim in the circumstances it covered. It looks like the policy benefit wouldve given them 
greater security at a difficult time if Mr H lost his job or became too sick to work for a time.
Mrs B and Mr H have told us the policy didnt pay out when Mr H tried to claim on it a few 
years after it started. Ive thought about this carefully. What they first sent us didnt mention 
any claims having been made or turned down. But the policy did have some limitations and 
exclusions, so claims might be turned down in some situations. That said, from what Mrs B 
and Mr H have told us, there was nothing in Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale that 
I think ought to have made Halifax think the cover might not be right for them by virtue of any 
policy limitations or exclusions affecting him. For example, Mr H hasnt told us of having any 
health issues at the time that the policy mightve excluded  and, from hes told us, he was in 
permanent and long term employment and so wasnt affected by exclusions related to short 
term or temporary employment or to self-employment. 
So, taking everything into account, what I have doesnt persuade me the cover was wrong 
for Mr H at the time of the sale by virtue of its exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldnt 
cover every eventuality but, from what Mrs B and Mr H have told us of their circumstances, it 
looks to me like the cover couldve still been useful to them because the policy did cover a 
variety of circumstances in which Mrs B and Mr H couldve made a successful claim  and 
the benefit it wouldve paid in those circumstances wouldve been useful to them.
Mrs B and Mr H have said the cover wasnt explained. Its possible the information Halifax 
gave Mrs B and Mr H about the cover wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I cant say 
they didnt want this type of cover  because I havent seen enough to make me think they 
didnt choose to take it. Also it seems to me, for the reasons Ive given above, the policy 
offered cover that couldve been useful for Mrs B and Mr H in a variety of situations and it 
also offered a useful benefit. With all this in mind, taking everything into account, I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs B and Mr H off taking the cover.
Ive carefully considered all Mrs B and Mr Hs points - and Im grateful to them for their 
courtesy and prompt attention throughout our consideration of their complaint - but, for the 
reasons Ive given above, these points dont change my decision.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman