DRN-2941149
The complaint
Mr D complains about the settlement that esure Insurance Limited made for his claim on his 
motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr D took out a motor insurance policy with esure through an online price comparison site. 
When his car was stolen from outside his house, he made a claim on his policy. 
esure accepted his claim, but it paid a settlement of less than half the cars market value. 
When Mr D complained, esure said hed answered the question hed been asked about his 
previous claims history incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to settle his claim proportionately. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he believed it was careless. He 
said esure was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. 
Mr D replied that esures premium with the correct number of claims was much higher than 
other insurers premiums. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
esure thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he had only one previous claim within the 
past five years. 
And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked:
Please list details of any incidents, accidents, losses, thefts or claims involving a motor 
vehicle in the last five years, regardless of fault or whether you claimed or not. 
And I think this was a clear question asked by esure through the comparison site Mr D used.
Mr D said he had one claim. But esure identified two further claims made within the previous 
five years that should have been disclosed. Mr D said he had forgotten about one and didnt 
think the other was relevant as it had been declined. 
But I think the question asked him to disclose all his claims and incidents. And so I think this 
means Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said he 
had only one previous claim. 
esure has provided evidence which shows that if Mr D had not made this misrepresentation 
it would have at least charged him a higher premium. This means I am satisfied Mr Ds 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ds misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because Im 
satisfied that Mr D had forgotten about the undisclosed claim and didnt think the other 
unpaid claim would be relevant. 
As Ive said above, as the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and esure would have 
charged a higher premium if Mr D hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to consider 
the claim and settle it proportionately as it accepts it.
esure has provided evidence from its underwriting guide that shows that if Mr D had 
disclosed the other two claims, it would have charged him about 50% more premium. 
Therefore Im satisfied that esure was entitled to settle Mr Ds claim by paying him a 
settlement proportionate to the amount of premium he paid compared to what he should 
have paid, 49.27%.
Mr D said that other insurers would have charged a much lower premium for two further 
disclosed claims. But, as our investigator has already explained, I cant consider other 
insurers premiums here. And I think its underwriting criteria, assessment of risk and 
consequent premiums are esures commercial decision, which isnt something I can 
reasonably interfere with. And I think esure has shown that it treated Mr D the same as any 
other consumer. So I cant say its done anything wrong. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing esure to rely on it to settle Mr Ds claim proportionately produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman