DRN-3557464
The complaint
Ms O complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated her when she 
called to ask for assistance. 
What happened
Ms O contacted Halifax in May 2022 and explained she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Ms O has a current account without an overdraft and was concerned about 
having funds available to cover standing orders that were due to be paid. Ms O spoke with 
several call handlers on different teams. 
Ms O told call handlers shed taken steps to ensure there was money to make the standing 
order payments but was very low on funds for the following week. Ms O explained that the 
previous year Halifax had provided gestures of goodwill that had helped her at similar times. 
Ms O asked the call handlers to do the same. 
The call handlers ran through options they thought may assist Ms O, but they didnt agree to 
make a payment on a goodwill basis. The call handlers said Ms O could apply for an 
overdraft, amend or cancel standing orders and discuss her situation with debt advice 
organisations. Ms O explained she was concerned about the impact of having to make 
repayments if she borrowed money from Halifax and repeated requests for a gesture of 
goodwill as an alternative. 
A complaint was raised after Ms O expressed concerns over the service shed received and 
lack of assistance. Halifax issued a final response but didnt agree it had treated Ms O 
unfairly. Halifax said its call handlers had given the right information to Ms O when she 
called and didnt find grounds to make an award. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Os complaint and thought Halifax had dealt with 
it fairly. 
Ms O asked to appeal and said she was concerned that the investigator hadnt reached a 
fair view of her complaint. Ms O also said the call handlers had failed to understand the level 
of distress and inconvenience she was experiencing. Ms O says Halifaxs staff werent 
compassionate or understanding and that she suffers with long term health problems that 
impact her ability to work. Ms O said that when she visited her branch on the following day it 
arranged for a small overdraft to be put in pace at no cost to her but this wouldnt have been 
necessary if the call handlers had paid a gesture instead. As Ms O asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining my decision relates to Halifaxs actions in May 2022 when 
Ms O called. Im conscious another ombudsman recently made a decision about previous 
concerns Ms O has raised. But this decision relates to a different set of events and is entirely 
separate from the previous decision this service has issued. 
Id also like to note that my review and investigation is impartial and separate to the 
investigators. Ive independently reviewed all the evidence and information we have on file. 
That includes listening to the relevant calls Ms O had, reviewing her comments and detailed 
response to the investigator and all the other information provided by both sides. I want to 
assure Ms O that my review of her complaint has been completed independently and my 
decision is made on the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
her complaint. 
Listening to Ms Os various calls on the day in question, its clear she wanted Halifax help. 
Ms O said she wanted Halifax to offer her a gesture of goodwill. Ms O appears to have been 
referring to non refundable payment. But Halifaxs call agents didnt offer that sort of support. 
Instead, they offered alternatives that Ms O felt were unreasonable. Ive considered whether 
it was reasonable for Halifax to decline Ms Os request for a gesture of goodwill and whether 
the other options it attempted to discuss were fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms O because I can see she has been through a very difficult time. 
But Halifax has explained theres no process or arrangement within the business to give 
customers goodwill payments, in the circumstances Ms Os raised. Halifax says it can offer a 
goodwill payment to apologise for a mistake or when dealing with a complaint, but there 
were no grounds to do so in Ms Os case. Having considered Ms Os comments and listened 
to her calls with Halifax, I havent found it acted unfairly by declining her request. 
Whilst Halifax couldnt make a goodwill payment to Ms O, it did explain she could contact the 
parties collecting standing orders to make other arrangements. A call handler also told Ms O 
she could amend the amount collected or date of the standing orders if she needed more 
time. And, the call handlers also offered to check whether Ms O qualified for an overdraft  
the solution put in place by her branch the following day. I also heard call handlers try to 
discuss third party advice services that mayve been able to provide support. When Ms O 
was offered the option of discussing an overdraft she declined it, telling the call handler she 
was concerned about the pressure of repaying the debt. But I think the call handler was 
trying to provide workable assistance from the options they have available. 
In response to the investigator, Ms O said the call handlers she spoke with had failed to offer 
reasonable support but branch staff had done much better. Im pleased it was possible to 
gain some support in branch. As Ive noted above, Ms O ultimately took a modest overdraft 
to make ends meet. I think its fair to say the branch staff werent able to make a gesture of 
goodwill payment to Ms O either. And, as Ive said, Halifaxs call handler did offer to look at 
an overdraft for Ms O when she called. In my view, the call handlers gave reasonable 
support options and tried to assist Ms O. 
I understand the calls, by their nature, were hard on Ms O and upsetting. But I thought the 
call handlers were courteous, sympathetic and professional throughout. Ms O was given 
space to explain her situation and whilst I understand she was placed on hold at times, that 
reflects the account history and need for the call handlers to read notes and to get an 
understanding of her circumstances. Based on the calls I listened to, I havent been 
persuaded Halifax treated Ms O unfairly. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms O but as Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with her complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman