DRN-1158983
 
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L took out the PPI in 2000 at the same time as taking out a further advance on his 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it was. But it does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my 
decision I have looked at the evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most 
likely to have happened.
Mr Ls main mortgage had been running since July 1999, and he didnt take out PPI when he 
originally arranged the mortgage. So I doubt he would have thought that the PPI was a 
condition of the lending when he arranged the further advance a year later.
From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the policy would usually have been 
presented as optional. I havent seen anything to make me think that something else 
happened in this case. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr 
Ls recollection of events has faded. Overall I consider it most likely that Mr L decided to take 
out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr L to buy the policy and therefore it had to ensure that it met his need. 
And from what I know of Mr Ls circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him. Mr 
L has said that he would have received generous sick pay from his employer. However the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay, allowing Mr L to retain more of his sick 
pay for future use, or to cover other outgoings. And Mr L has told us that he didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So if he had needed to claim on the policy, I 
think Mr L would have found it a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time.Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr L wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as 
a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing that Lloyds needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman