DRN-1725396
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HDI Global Specialty SE has turned down an escape of water 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs W discovered water damage to one of their stairs and paint 
bubbling on the wall. They called out a plumber who thought water was running down the 
back of their bath and causing damage. So Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their home 
insurance policy.
HDI appointed an adjuster to investigate the cause of damage. The adjuster thought there 
were two distinct causes of the damage. One patch to the floor was down to Mr and Mrs Ws 
son splashing bathwater over the edge. He put the other cause of damage down to failed 
grouting around the bath, which was leaking each time the shower was run.
Based on the adjusters report, HDI turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically 
excluded claims which were down to failed sealant or grout, which a policyholder knew or 
shouldve known about. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with HDIs decision and complained.
HDI reviewed the claim and appointed another specialist to look into the cause of the 
damage. The specialists report tied-in with what the adjuster had found. They concluded the 
damage was down to heavily failed grouting allowing large amounts of water to escape 
beneath the bath when the shower is in use. So HDI maintained its decision. It said the 
claim wasnt covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs W asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
strictly, the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. But he didnt think Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve been aware that water was leaking and causing damage until they discovered the 
damaged stair and paintwork. While he accepted the photos showed an existing damp patch 
on the floor, he thought it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to put this down to the water 
their son had splashed. Overall, he didnt think they couldve been expected to fix something 
they didnt know about. And HDI couldnt separate the damage whichd resulted from each 
distinct cause. So he recommended that HDI should cover the full claim.
HDI disagreed. It said there wouldve been evident staining to the ceiling which Mr and Mrs 
W wouldve seen. It said the grouting was mouldy and that Mr and Mrs W had simply failed 
to maintain it adequately. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for HDI to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Ill 
explain why.
First, Ive carefully considered all of the information both parties have sent me, together with 
the policy terms. Ive placed particular weight on the findings of the adjuster and the leak 
specialist company in deciding, on balance, what the most likely cause of the water damage 
was.
Neither expert located a leaking pipe during their inspections, despite the leak specialist in 
particular carrying out a number of diagnostic tests. And both put the damage down to two 
separate causes  the first being water whichd been splashed from the bath and the second 
being the failure of the grouting. It seems both considered the main cause of the damage to 
be the failed grout though. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy clearly excludes claims which happen because of a lack 
of maintenance. The escape of water section also specifically excludes loss or damage 
caused by the failure or lack of grouting or sealant known to you or that you ought to have 
been aware of. This part of the policy also excludes damage which happens gradually, or 
which is down to wear and tear. 
HDI seems to have largely relied on the failure of grouting exclusion to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim. But this seems to apply when a policyholder knows or ought to have known 
about the failure of grouting. 
I havent seen enough to persuade me thats most likely here. I can see from the photos in 
the experts reports that there was some mould on the grouting around the bath. But I dont 
think this wouldve necessarily prompted someone without specialist plumbing knowledge 
that there might be a problem, or that water might be getting behind the tiles. And while Mr 
W says he did a bit of re-grouting in 2018, I dont think this indicates he thought there might 
be a problem. It seems more likely he was trying to ensure the grouting was properly 
maintained.
Given the adjuster and leak specialists findings though, it does seem that the damage was 
ongoing, over a period of time. So it seems it was caused gradually and isnt strictly covered 
by the terms of the policy. But I need to consider whether turning down Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim produces a fair outcome. And I dont think it does.
As the investigator explained, I need to decide whether I think Mr and Mrs W were or 
shouldve been aware that damage was happening and so taken steps to mitigate their loss. 
It seems unfair to turn down their claim if they couldnt have known water was leaking and 
causing damage. Theyve told us while they knew there was a damp patch on the stairs, 
theyd put this down to their son splashing bathwater onto the floor, which seeped through. 
This seems like a plausible explanation for this area of damage. And I note Mr and Mrs W 
didnt seem to be pursuing a claim for this particular part of the damage  because they 
knew about it and because they didnt think it would be covered.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt know about the leaking bath until they noticed a stair was 
close to collapse through wetness and bubbling paint on the walls. On the other hand, HDI 
says there wouldve been staining on the ceiling, which wouldve been evident for some 
time.  
Ive looked closely at both the expert reports and the photos Ive been sent. The expert 
reports make no mention about staining to the ceiling or how long the damage to the walls 
wouldve been visible. The photos of the wall damage show damage which appears to be 
reasonably fresh  there doesnt seem to be mould on it which mightve suggested a longer-
term problem. And I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that there was obvious 
staining to the ceiling which shouldve alerted Mr and Mrs W to a potential issue which 
needed investigation.So on balance, I find it more likely that Mr and Mrs W werent reasonably aware that there 
was an issue with the grouting or that damage was taking place. Because of this, I dont 
think they couldve taken steps to mitigate their loss any sooner than they did. It seems to 
me that as soon as they became aware of the main damage, they got in touch with a 
plumber and HDI to put things right. This means I think it would be unreasonable for HDI to 
rely on the policy exclusion clauses to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
I appreciate that there are two separate causes of damage. And that Mr and Mrs W do 
accept they were aware of the damp caused by their son splashing water. So Ive 
considered whether it would be fairer to tell HDI to deal with the damage caused by the 
failed grouting only. But HDI has told us it cant separate what damage is down to which 
cause. That means this isnt a possibility. And on that basis, it seems the most sensible 
option is to direct HDI to deal with the full claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
I direct HDI Global Specialty SE to deal with Mr and Mrs Ws claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. To any settlement paid, HDI must add interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
*If HDI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman