DRN-1785681
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted British Gas because part of his heating system wouldnt turn off and was 
operating continually. Mr C was given an appointment for a date three weeks later, as British 
Gas said it wasnt an emergency. On the day of the appointment, Mr C waited at home for 
the engineer. The engineer didnt arrive and when Mr C contacted British Gas, he was told 
the engineer would still attend. However, he was later told that the engineer wouldnt be able 
to make the appointment. Mr C was offered a new appointment for 10 days later and £10 
compensation. Mr C didnt accept the new appointment date and asked to be contacted by a 
manager. A manager didnt contact him. Mr C then arranged a new appointment for a couple 
of weeks later.
Mr C complained to British Gas and asked for his insurance premium to be refunded. When 
British Gas replied, it said that it had provided poor service but the boiler issue had now 
been fixed. It said it wouldnt refund the premium.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint about the boiler. He 
said that the appointment had taken place beyond a reasonable timeframe and that his 
original appointment was cancelled very late, after Mr C had waited at home for the 
engineer. He said that British Gas should pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The investigator didnt uphold the part of the complaint about the 
insurance renewal premium, as he didnt identify any issues with how it was calculated.
British Gas did not agree with the amount of compensation but increased its offer of 
compensation to £40. Mr C declined this, so the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas accepted that it could have provided a better service when Mr C contacted it for 
an engineer to attend. When our investigator looking at this case, British Gas increased its 
offer of compensation to £40, but thought that £150 was too high. So, Ive thought about 
what I think is an appropriate amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Ive read the policy documents. These said:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr Cs issue with his boiler wasnt classified as an emergency because he had heating and 
hot water. British Gas prioritised more urgent cases, such as someone not having any 
heating or hot water. So, British Gas gave Mr C the first available non-emergency 
appointment, which was about three weeks after he reported the issue. I dont think that was 
unreasonable, although I do think it was a fairly lengthy wait for an appointment.
Mr C waited at home on the day of the appointment. When the engineer didnt arrive, Mr C 
phoned British Gas and was told that the engineer would still be coming. However, he was 
later told that the engineer wasnt able to make the appointment. I can see that this would 
have caused Mr C inconvenience. He stayed at home for the appointment in the reasonable 
expectation that it would happen and even had that confirmed on the day. However, the 
engineer then didnt arrive. 
British Gas offered an appointment for a couple of weeks later, which Mr C declined. Im 
aware that even if that appointment had taken place, Mr Cs heating would have been stuck 
on for over four weeks because of British Gass inability to arrange and attend an 
appointment any sooner. I dont think an appointment over four weeks after the initial call 
was within a reasonable time and it also meant that Mr C was using more energy as a 
result of the boiler not being repaired due to British Gass failure to attend the first 
appointment. In my view, that also caused inconvenience to Mr C.
Mr C asked to speak to a manager and told that he would receive a phone call. This didnt 
happen. British Gas described this as a broken promise, which I agree with. But I think it 
was more than that. Mr C wanted to speak to a manager about getting his boiler fixed, so 
this was directly relevant to trying to get his claim resolved. Mr Cs expectation was built up 
that a manager would phone him and I dont think Mr C was provided with a satisfactory 
explanation for why this didnt happen, which will have added to the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this case.
Im aware that Mr C was also concerned about how long British Gas took to respond to his 
complaint because it took over eight weeks to reply. However, complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, so this isnt something that we can look at. So, I wont be commenting on 
this.
Mr C said that he was also unhappy about his insurance premiums continuing to increase 
each year and that he could get the policy cheaper as a new customer. The amount that a 
business charges for a product is a commercial decision based on a range of factors. We 
cant tell them how much to charge, but we can look at whether the way the premium was 
calculated was in line with its policies and procedures. 
Ive looked at how Mr Cs renewal premium was calculated and have seen the range of 
factors it was based on. In my view, I havent seen anything that makes me think that there 
was an issue with how the premium was calculated or that Mr C was incorrectly charged. 
Ive also seen evidence that Mr C was sent a renewal notice in advance of the policy 
renewing, which gave him the opportunity to decide if he wanted to renew on the terms 
offered.
So, thinking about this complaint as a whole, I uphold it in part. This is because I think that 
there were a number of issues with how Mr Cs claim was handled. He waited at home for an 
engineer that didnt arrive. He had his expectation built up on the day that the engineer 
would still attend. But this then didnt happen. He also had his expectation built up that a 
manager would phone him. But this also didnt happen. I think that the second appointment 
that Mr C was offered was beyond a reasonable time, even though I accept that British Gas 
had other cases to deal with that it might have thought more urgent, and that this would also 
have caused Mr C inconvenience, including because he would have used more energy as a result. However, I dont uphold the part about the premium as I havent seen any issues with 
how it was calculated.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what British Gas should do as a result of this. I think that British Gas 
should pay Mr C £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C by the way it 
dealt with his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. This 
is because I think there were a number of issues with how Mr Cs claim was handled. But, I 
dont uphold the part about the insurance premium.  
As a result, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman