DRN-2832228
The complaint
Ms S says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S took out a 36-month instalment loan from ELL on 8 October 2015 for £2,700. The 
monthly repayment was £160.93 and the total repayable was £5,793.48.
Ms S says ELL didnt complete adequate checks, had it done it would have seen the loan 
was not affordable for her.
Our investigator recommended Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. He said as ELLs checks 
showed Ms S would have very little disposable income it should have carried out a fuller 
review of Ms Ss financial position before agreeing to lend.
ELL did not respond to this assessment, despite committing to and being chased more than 
once. So the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Ms S. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Ms S could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Ms S. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Ms S, and have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ss loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL asked for some information from Ms S before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income and estimated her monthly costs using national statistics. It checked her 
income against bank statements. It reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history 
and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was in part 
debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Ms S had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford the loan.
I am not persuaded ELL made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
From its affordability assessment it concluded Ms S would have £22.65 monthly disposable 
income after taking on this loan and settling her mail order account. I dont think that was 
enough for her to maintain financial stability given she had two dependents and the loan was 
for a three-year period. I dont think ELLs checks were sufficiently borrower-focused and 
considered Ms Ss personal circumstances. Had they done so I think ELL would have 
realised the loan left Ms S without enough money to cover any unplanned or seasonal 
expenses. This put her at risk of being unable to make her repayments without borrowing to 
repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences.
Our investigator thought that given the results of its checks ELL ought to have carried out a 
fuller review before agreeing to lend. He said it had copies of Ms Ss recent bank statements 
so could have checked her actual expenses rather than using national statistics. I am 
minded to say that after its initial checks ELL should have decided it would not be 
responsible to progress. But even adopting the approach that it should have done further 
checks, I reach the same conclusion that it was wrong to lend. 
I can see from the bank statements Ms S provided to ELL at the point of application that the 
income figure ELL used was slightly understated as there was a child maintenance payment 
of £100 it had not included. But her regular outgoings (including rent, food, council tax, 
utilities, TV/broadband, clothing) were higher than the estimate it had made using national 
statistics. In the round this meant she would be left with around £60 each month after taking 
on this loan repayment. Given Ms S had two children I am still of the view that this was not 
enough to cover unplanned or seasonal expenses over three years, or indeed to absorb 
increases in her living costs, without causing Ms S financial stress.It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Ms S.
I havent seen any evidence ELL acted unfairly towards Ms S in any other way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Ms S to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges  so add up the total Ms S repaid and deduct the 
sum from the capital amount of the loan.
As reworking Ms Ss loan account will result in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Ms S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ss complaint. Everyday Lending Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman