DRN-3812238
The complaint
Mr G and Mr S are unhappy a claim made under their home insurance has been declined by 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
In July 2022 Mr G and Mr S were moving a bird feeder which had a spiked base in their 
garden, and unknown to them, they accidentally pierced their oil heating fuel transfer line. 
Mr G and Mr S discovered this a few days later when there were signs of oil presence in 
their garden, which led them to inspect their oil tank, which had around 750 litres less oil 
than they expected.
Mr G and Mr S reported this to RSA, their home insurance provider. RSA appointed experts 
to investigate, and they declined the claim on behalf of RSA. When Mr G and Mr S contacted 
RSA to dispute this, they were told the transfer line wouldnt be covered as they didnt have 
accidental damage cover, but the clean-up from the oil leak would be covered under their 
policy.
However, RSA subsequently declined the claim. They said there was no damage to the 
buildings and thats what the policy covers, so they said Mr G and Mr S didnt have a valid 
claim. But RSA recognised Mr G and Mr S had been given incorrect information that the 
claim would be covered and offered £100 compensation for this.
Mr G and Mr S were unhappy with RSAs decision and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into matters, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr G and Mr S didnt have accidental damage cover, so the pipes wouldnt be covered. She 
also said she didnt think the pipes would form part of the heating system, which is what was 
covered under the policy.
The investigator said Mr G and Mr S were provided with documents when taking out and 
renewing their policy, and as it was sold and renewed on a non-advised basis, it was for 
Mr G and Mr S to ensure the policy was suitable for their needs. She recognised RSA had 
given incorrect information about the claim being covered, but she thought the £100 
compensation they had already offered for this was reasonable.
Mr G and Mr S disagreed, they argued that the fuel transfer line was part of the heating 
system so they said their claim should be covered. 
RSA also responded to our investigator to say they did actually accept the fuel transfer line 
was part of the heating system, but there hadnt been any damage to Mr G and Mr S 
buildings (as defined in the policy terms), so there was no cover, and this is why they had 
declined the claim. 
Our investigator revisited things. She said RSA hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim 
as there was no damage to the buildings as defined, and Mr G and Mr S didnt have 
accidental damage or garden cover. Therefore, she said there was no insured event, so the 
pollution and contamination as a result of the oil leak wouldnt be covered either. She 
recognised Mr G and Mr S said they thought there may be damage to a fence as a result of 
the leak, but the expert reports provided didnt demonstrate that.
Mr G and Mr S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the very difficult position the accidental loss of oil puts Mr G and Mr S in, and I 
sympathise with their situation. However, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment 
to Mr G and Mr S, having taken everything into account, I dont think RSA has acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim. Ill explain why.
Mr G and Mr S were moving a spiked bird feeder when they accidentally punctured the 
heating oil fuel transfer line to their home, resulting in a significant escape of oil into their 
garden.
Mr G and Mr S dont have accidental damage cover on their policy, and they accept the 
repair/replacement of the damaged fuel line itself isnt covered under their policy terms as a 
result. But Mr G and Mr S believe that RSA should pay, under their insurance policy, for the 
clean-up of the oil, which will be at a significant cost.
Mr G and Mr S policy provides cover for:
5. Oil escaping from a fixed heating system.
And its this section which Mr G and Mr S believe should pay for the clean-up. 
Our investigator initially said she didnt think the fuel transfer line would be part of the fixed 
heating system. However, RSA clarified that in fact it does consider the transfer line as part 
of it. Therefore, this isnt in dispute. In any event, I agree with RSA here that it would form 
part of the heating system.
So, in principle, the policy does provide cover for oil escaping from a fixed heating system. 
However, looking at the full policy terms, which the escape of oil cover is in, these explain:
What we cover
Damage to your buildings caused by the following:
Therefore, this says damage caused to buildings as a result of a number of listed insured 
events is covered. It then goes on to outline those specific events, such as storm, flood, and 
in this case, escape of oil from a fixed heating system. However, what is important here is 
that the policy covers damage to buildings by these insured events.
The policy terms define buildings as:
Buildings
Your home, drives, walls, patios, paved terraces, footpaths, tennis courts, fixtures 
and fittings (examples below), fixed solar panels, permanently fixed alarm systems, 
drains, pipes, cables, underground tanks, fences, hedges that form part of the 
boundary of your home, gates, swimming pools and any items permanently fixed into the ground such as hot tubs, statues, garden ponds, fountains, pergolas and 
gazebos.
Buildings Cover doesnt include aerials or satellite receiving equipment.
And home is defined as:
Home
The house, bungalow or flat at the address shown on your Policy Schedule, its 
outbuildings, including attached and detached garages, annexes, conservatories, 
sheds and greenhouses.
So, for the escape of oil from a fixed heating system section to provide cover, there would 
need to be damage to the buildings (as defined). However, that isnt what has happened 
here. Instead, its the soil in the garden that has been contaminated. But the garden and soil 
doesnt form part of the buildings as defined. So, on this basis, an insured event under the 
escape of oil from a fixed heating system section of cover hasnt occurred in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr G and Mr S also dont have optional garden, or garden accidental damage, cover. This 
covers loss or damage to contents in the open, along with plants, hedges and lawns, 
amongst other things. And escape of oil is an insured event under this section of the policy. 
But as I say, Mr G and Mr S dont have this optional cover.
Therefore, as no insured event has occurred in line with the policy terms of the cover which 
Mr G and Mr S have, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly by declining their claim on this 
basis.
Mr G and Mr S have said they think there could be damage to their fence as a result of the 
oil leak. However, I agree with our investigator that the expert reports dont support that. If 
Mr G and Mr S are able to evidence this, they should approach RSA in the first instance. But 
based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this has been shown. 
Mr G and Mr S have also pointed to another part of their policy, which they say should 
provide cover. This says:
Pollution or contamination
Any claim or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by pollution or 
contamination, or arising from it. Thats unless it was caused by a sudden 
unexpected incident or oil or water escaping from a fixed oil or water installation, 
which occurred during any insurance period and wasnt the result of an intentional 
act.
We class all pollution or contamination which arises from one incident as having 
occurred at the same time as that incident took place.
However, this wording is actually an exclusion applicable to all parts of the policy, rather than 
in the insured events section of Mr G and Mr S policy. This says that pollution or contamination is excluded from all parts of the policy cover, unless 
its the result of specific circumstances outlined. The exception it makes in the wording is in 
relation to if there is an insured event i.e. if there is a covered escape of oil under the policy, 
then it covers the connected expense of pollution or contamination which would otherwise be 
excluded. 
But, as I explained above, there isnt actually an insured event here as the escape of oil 
hasnt damaged the buildings (as defined) which is what the policy covers, therefore the 
exception to the exclusion (which would mean there is cover) doesnt apply.
Mr G and Mr S argue that by the wording of the exclusion, this implies pollution or 
contamination is separately covered. However, I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Some insurance policies cover all-risks. This means the policy covers anything that might 
happen at a property, unless its otherwise specifically excluded. However, Mr G and Mr S 
policy covers a number of listed, specific, insured events - known as insured perils. So, it is 
only these specific events or perils that are covered, and within those specific events, there 
are also exclusions.
Therefore, the starting point in Mr G and Mr S policy and claim is that there needs to be an 
insured event or peril as specifically listed. If there is, then the insurer needs to deal with it, 
unless there is an exclusion which then means that insured event then isnt covered. 
Here the claim doesnt get beyond the is there an insured event for the reasons explained 
(because there isnt damage to the buildings as defined), so an exclusion doesnt need to be 
considered or applied  and consequently the exception to it doesnt either. The wording 
here Mr G and Mr S refer to is in relation to an exclusion in the policy, and that only needs to 
be considered if there is an insured event under the policy in the first place  which isnt the 
case here.
Mr G and Mr S have also mentioned their policy wording for subsidence mentions the land 
on which the building stands. However, the subsidence cover again covers damage to the 
buildings, caused by subsidence of the land rather than the land itself in isolation. In any 
event, this is specific to the subsidence section of cover, so isnt relevant for the escape of 
oil claim. And I dont agree with Mr G and Mr S when they say because it is mentioned in the 
subsidence cover, it shows the policy intention is to cover the land for all the other perils 
(including escape of oil) too. 
Mr G and Mr S have also highlighted they were told they had cover for the clean-up, and 
later were told they didnt. 
Ive listened to the call recordings provided and I agree that Mr G and Mr S were told the 
wrong information. RSA accepts this, and this is why they offered £100 compensation. And 
having taken everything into account, I think the £100 compensation is fair and reasonable 
for that incorrect advice from RSA, so Im not going to direct them to increase the amount.
In RSAs final response, they also outlined that there may be a case for a claim for legal 
liability, but there is also a term which requires a policyholder to take all reasonable steps to 
prevent loss. Theyve more generally said that if this term is breached then they wouldnt pay 
claims. But I cant see that Mr G and Mr S have formally attempted to make a legal liability 
claim, or that RSA has formally considered one either. So, I wont be deciding that here in 
this complaint. If this is something which Mr G and Mr S wish to explore, theyd need to 
contact RSA directly in the first instance.Mr G and Mr S have also said the policy was mis-sold, on the basis they believed from their 
policy documents that they had cover for escape of oil from a fixed heating system. 
However, as Ive explained, in principle this is covered - if there is damage to the buildings. 
So, I dont agree the policy was mis-sold on this basis. The policy was also sold (and 
renewed) on a non-advised basis, and Mr G and Mr S were provided with policy documents 
at the point of sale and renewal, and these outlined the policy terms and cover. It was for 
Mr G and Mr S to consider if the policy theyd purchased was suitable for their needs. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay the £100 
compensation offered (if they havent already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman