DRN-3626891
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
In March 2017, Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual. By that point,                    
Mr H had accrued two separate periods of qualifying service in the BSPS. 
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
Mr H was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and wanted advice on his options. The combined cash 
equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits (for both periods of service) at that time 
was £307,829.59. He contacted IFM for advice. In September 2017, one of IFMs advisers 
recorded the following information about Mr H:
He was aged 43 and his wife was aged 48. They were both in good health. They had 
one child aged 18;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£35,000;
His assets comprised his home which was encumbered with a mortgage. The value 
of his home and any savings or investments he had wasnt recorded;
Other than the mortgage on his main residence (the outstanding loan value wasnt 
recorded), he didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had minimal surplus disposable income of 
available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary (the value of his DC 
plan wasnt recorded but, by that point, total contributions of about £4,000 had been 
invested);
He was an inexperienced investor. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious risk) was 
lowest risk and 5 (Adventurous risk) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined 
to be 2 or Low risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire from age 58.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in September 2017. 
This explained to Mr H that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
IFMs adviser recommended that Mr H transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for the 
following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.46% (or £4,500)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.35% product fee deducted from the PPP fund value
The suitability report stated that following the pension transfer, a different business 
would provide ongoing advice to Mr H regarding the management and investment of 
the recommended PPP. In connection with this, IFMs adviser stated in the suitability 
report, It is important that your funds and financial planning arrangements are 
reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they remain suitable. I understand this 
service will be provided by [the other business]. The cost of this provision can be paid 
directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on an ongoing basis. This is something you and [the other business] will need to discuss and agree on. The cost 
of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
IFM didnt calculate Mr Hs estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 or the 
critical yield figure to match that benefit. In its suitability report it stated, For your information 
however, I can confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that
annual investment returns of typically around 8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the 
benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme.
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with 
Mr Hs Low risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 80% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 20% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.64%
This complaint
During 2022, the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, complained to IFM about the suitability of its 
pension transfer advice. In summary, it thought that the advice was unsuitable and had 
caused Mr H to suffer a financial loss. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr H was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr H to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 55 and leave a lump sum to 
his beneficiaries on death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered relevant 
FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr H with all the necessary information and risk 
warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. IFM acknowledged that its 
suitability report included an error when it stated that a different business would provide 
ongoing advice to Mr H. It clarified that it had in fact provided ongoing advice to Mr H at a 
cost of 0.4% of his PPP fund value each year which he was aware of. It apologised for 
referring to an unconnected business in its suitability report. In its view, however, the 
pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was clearly in  
Mr Hs best interests at the time. He thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the 
BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator recommended that IFM carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr H transferred to the BSPS2, 
took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he 
recommended that IFM pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr H, accepted our investigators assessment. IFM replied and 
stated that it didnt agree with the outcome and didnt wish to provide any further comments 
or evidence because, in its view, the outcome of this complaint had already been pre-
determined regardless of what it had to say about the matter. Since agreement couldnt be 
reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage 
of our process.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FOSs approach to deciding complaints
In response to our investigators assessment, IFM expressed its concerns about how we 
decide complaints. It says we use letter templates and is concerned our investigator didnt 
assess this complaint on its own facts and that the recommended uphold outcome was 
already pre-determined. 
I want to address IFMs concerns. Firstly, I can assure it that we consider each case on an 
individual basis based on the available evidence. While some cases may appear to have 
similar circumstances, they can have different facts involved and so wont necessarily have 
the same findings or outcome. In the case of BSPS pension transfers, many members were 
facing the same, uncertain situation following the announcement by Tata Steel in                         
March 2016 which resulted in a significant number being advised to transfer away. The 
background and circumstances were very similar for lots of members  and so its inevitable 
that our decisions on complaints about BSPS pension transfers will include similar content 
when setting out the background, circumstances, the reasons for the recommendation to 
transfer and when referencing relevant FCA rules and guidance. But the similarity in content 
on different decisions doesnt mean the outcome of this complaint was pre-determined as 
IFM believes to be the case.
My role, as set out in DISP 3.6.1R, is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And when considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence afresh. Id like to make clear that the 
purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by the CMC, 
on behalf of Mr H, and IFM. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Hs situation
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr H. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr H 
still had the option to retain guaranteed benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. IFM stated in 
its suitability report that full details of the BSPS2 werent known at that stage but were 
expected to be announced shortly.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve delayed its advice until more 
information about the BSPS2 became available. And once those details became available to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly demonstrate 
it was in Mr Hs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr H was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. In summary:
Mr Hs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, then with a combined cash equivalent 
transfer value of £307,829.59, represented the backbone of his retirement provision 
built up by that time. So I think its fair to say that when he came to retire he would be 
heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level 
of core income to support his standard of living in retirement. IFM recorded that he 
was an inexperienced investor with a Low risk profile which was defined as, I am a 
conservative investor who requires limited exposure to the equity market. I am willing 
to accept growth in line with inflation. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, 
inflation and longevity risk being transferred from the scheme to Mr H. Taking these 
factors into account, its my view that there needed to be a compelling reason why it 
was suitable for Mr H to transfer to the PPP compared to the alternative option of 
retaining guaranteed lifetime income under the BSPS2;
Mr H was then aged 43. IFM recorded that he wanted to retire from age 58. He 
couldnt access benefits under the PPP until age 55 at the earliest. With such a time 
horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a pension 
transfer  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. 
Had IFM advised Mr H to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 43;
IFM stated that Mr H was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility 
over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Low risk investor like  
Mr H to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Flexibility and 
control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr H had any concrete need for it. 
It was recorded that he preferred choice and control over guaranteed lifetime 
income, however Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed 
income all his working life and a Low risk profile. So I think a guaranteed income 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Hs circumstances. In any event, he 
was expected to continue contributing 12% of his annual salary into his workplace 
DC plan for at least the next 15 years to age 58  IFM noted that this plan was 
expected to be valued at around £100,000 by age 58. So he wouldve had flexible 
options available through the TFC available under the BSPS2 and the DC plan 
without taking risk on his main pension provision;I think the suitability report misled Mr H about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated, Early retirement is unlikely to 
be an option under the PPFwhilst the terms and conditions of the British Steel 2 
Pension Scheme are not fully known. The reference to the PPF is incorrect since 
members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards subject to a 
reduction. The same was also true for the BSPS2. IFM portrayed the reduction as a 
penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact 
that the BSPS2 would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to 
protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, 
its likely Mr H incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits 
early under the BSPS2 when this wasnt actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr H so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
There isnt any evidence IFM calculated the critical yield to match Mr Hs benefits 
under the BSPS at age 65. But it did state in its suitability report, For your 
information however, I can confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel 
Scheme has shown that annual investment returns of typically around 8.0% p.a. are 
required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel 
scheme. This compared with discount rates of 4.5% at age 65 and 4.2% at age 58, 
as explained by our investigator. Its my view that an annual investment return of 
around 8.0% was incompatible with Mr Hs Low risk profile, discount rates and the 
weighted estimated annual growth rate of 5.64% (before charges) of the 
recommended investment strategy. I think it was clear that Mr H would be worse off 
as a result of the pension transfer;
A change in the format of death benefits was mentioned by IFM as another reason 
for transferring to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr H about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income 
and lump sum needs from age 58 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr H. A pension is primarily designed 
to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr H had no health issues at the 
time IFM advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the 
guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced 
safety net for his wife;
IFM portrayed the PPF as an option to avoid because it would restrict Mr Hs 
retirement. I think this was an unfair representation of the PPF. While I understand 
Mr H was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider 
a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for him to avoid. Under the PPF Mr H wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as 
a Low risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 
10%; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr H to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring 
to a PPP. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension transfer to the 
PPP led to Mr H gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative 
option of transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by September 2017 the 
risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the 
announcement by the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. So I think 
IFM shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think 
its fair to consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mr H. And so I think, given the lack of clarity surrounding when Mr H 
would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the 
time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As 
such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, 
compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the CMC on behalf of Mr H and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr H accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £170,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£170,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr H can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Clint PenfoldOmbudsman