DRN-3216573
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited mishandled his claim for a reimbursement for 
clothes that didnt match those he had ordered from a retailer.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr M ordered some items of clothing from a retailer via the internet. He paid 
£484 using the Mastercard debit card which he held with Starling. 
The clothes were delivered a few days later, and Mr M was disappointed that the order was 
incorrect having been sent trousers and not a jacket and items being the wrong size. Mr M 
also says he was concerned about the quality of the goods and thought they could be fakes.
Mr M contacted Starling to raise a dispute for the clothing and have his payment returned. 
Starling asked Mr M for further information as to what was wrong with the items and whether 
he had raised the issue with the retailer. It explained that before it could raise a chargeback 
it would need evidence that he had tried to resolve the problem directly with the retailer.
Mr M provided Starling with screenshots of parts of emails he had sent to the retailer and 
told Starling that it had all the proof it needed to raise the chargeback dispute.
Starling said that Mr M needed to answer all the questions it had raised and if he didnt it 
wouldnt be able to look into his case. Mr M disputed that he hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence.
Starling contacted Mr M again and said it hadnt received enough evidence to take forward 
to Mastercard to petition a chargeback request. Starling said to move the matter forward it 
needed Mr M to contact the retailer explaining the items hadnt been up to his expectations 
and seeking to return them. Once he had received a response from the retailer then he 
should send that to Starling. It also said it would place his case on hold to give him time to 
source this vital information.  Starling said if further evidence wasnt received then it would 
have no option but to close Mr Ms claim.
Mr M told Starling that he had tried to contact the retailer, but they were not replying back. 
He said hed sent pictures showing the messages hed sent to the retailer. Mr M supplied 
further screenshot of messages sent to the retailer. 
In June 2021 Starling informed Mr M that the correspondence hed submitted didnt meet the 
evidential threshold required by Mastercard to dispute this transaction. It acknowledged the 
email communications from the retailer but said it didnt believe there was strong enough 
evidence to forward to Mastercard. Starling said it had closed Mr Ms claim. Mr M 
complained to Starling over its handling of his claim. 
Starling didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mastercard required that all chargeback 
disputes that are raised must meet the conditions for a chargeback and that the reason for 
the chargeback is evidenced.  Starling said having reviewed Mr Ms claim there hadnt been 
any failings on its part when dealing with his claim.
Mr M was unhappy at Starlings response and complained to this service. He said he had 
contacted the retailer, but they had failed to respond to him. Mr M said he had provided the 
required evidence to Starling and it had failed to contact the retailer itself.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint was upheld. She said Starling needed 
evidence as to what was wrong with the clothing and that Mr M had raised his concerns with 
the retailer. There also needed to be evidence that Mr M had returned the goods to the 
retailer and not received a refund or that there was a reason why this he hadnt been able to 
return them. Our investigator said Starling would need to show that the retailer had been 
given time to address Mr Ms concerns and he had returned the clothing. She said she didnt 
think the evidence provided supported that the retailer had been given sufficient time and he 
hadnt returned the clothes. 
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he had contacted the retailer, 
but it had stopped replying to him and hadnt provided him with the return packages he 
needed to send the clothing back.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here is whether Starling has handled Mr Ms claim for 
reimbursement of the cost of the clothing fairly. 
Mr M raised a dispute with Starling about the transaction for the clothing shortly after the 
items had been delivered. Starling considered his claim under the chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card 
through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, here thats MasterCard. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed 
if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to 
a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund. 
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be processed. 
These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder contacted the 
merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the price, repair the 
item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the cardholder must have 
either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the goods were available for 
pick-up. 
If Starling feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a chargeback. 
So, Starling isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that the chances of success 
would be remote. 
Starling says it didnt receive enough evidence from Mr M to meet the evidential threshold 
set by Mastercard. I appreciate Mr M is disappointed that Starling didnt contact the retailer 
itself, but I wouldnt expect it to do so as the onus rests with Mr M to show he has met the 
conditions set by Mastercard. Mr M also says he did provide enough evidence.
Looking at the screenshots that Mr M sent to both this service and Starling, it appears hed 
ordered four items, three of which were jackets, its unclear what the fourth item was. 
However, Mr M has later provided this service with a full copy of his order and I can see he actually ordered a total of seven items. I dont know if Starling received a copy of the full 
order made by Mr M.
From the emails that have been provided by Mr M, I can see that he contacted the retailer 
prior to the delivery of the items and then, after receiving the goods, he sent four emails on 
the same day. One of these emails included a photo of a pair of trousers though I cant see 
what fault the photo was showing. The other three emails appear to be setting out that the 
order hed received is incorrect and that Mr M was concerned the items were fake. However, 
Mr M hasnt provided the full emails, only a snapshot of the first line, so I dont know how 
much information as to the faults with the order and clothing was given by Mr M.
Mr M has also provided snapshots of later emails though it isnt clear whether these were all 
seen by Starling. These show that the retailer responded to Mr M asking that he is specific 
as to the items he will be returning so that they can send the proper return label. Mr M then 
replies that all the items were wrong except one and that he requires a full refund and that 
they shouldnt charge for the only item they got right. There is then a further email sent by Mr 
M around two weeks later stating everything is being returned. Again, the emails provided 
arent complete, so I dont know what was exactly said to the retailer. Mr M says there was 
no further response from the retailer.
Looking at the criteria for a chargeback, I think Starling has acted fairly here in declining to 
pursue a claim for Mr M even if it had seen all the snapshots of the emails sent by him and 
had the full order details. This is because I dont think Mr M has provided sufficient evidence 
that the merchant had ceased its contact with him and were refusing to assist him. Although 
Mr M made enquiries about returning the clothing it appears at first that he was going to 
keep one item and he was of the view that the retailer shouldnt charge him for that. But later 
Mr M said he was returning everything. However, Ive seen the retailer had asked for him to 
be specific as to what was being returned and I dont know if he answered that and I also 
dont know what else he said in his emails. From the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
reasonable to think Mr M may not have been clear if he wished to keep one item or not to 
the retailer and they were waiting for that information.
The retailer has the right to defend a request for a chargeback and I cant reasonably say 
that here they wouldnt have done so. They had replied to Mr M about arranging a returns 
label and hadnt ignored him, they had asked him for information as to what he was 
returning. And although chargeback claims are time limited as they need to be raised within 
120 days of the items being delivered or the consumer realising there was a problem I dont 
think Mr M had given the retailer sufficient time to address his concerns, have the items 
returned and issue a refund. And this is important as Starling has to show to Mastercard that 
the chargeback claim fits the schemes criteria.
So, I think Starling was acting fairly in seeking more evidence in order that it could show 
what had been wrong with the clothing and that the retailer had also been given time to 
address Mr Ms concerns. Starling also needed evidence that the clothes had been returned 
and there had been time for a refund to be issued or, if not returned, there was a good 
reason for that. I dont think Mr M had sent Starling enough to show these conditions were 
met.
As Mr M didnt provide the required evidence to support his claim, I think Starling acted 
reasonably in taking into account the scheme rules when it decided that his claim didnt meet 
the required evidential standard and didnt pursue his claim further. So, for the reasons set 
out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
M, Im not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman