DRN-2599255
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that AXA Partners has refused to assess a sickness claim she 
wishes to make on a mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs M has had two separate policies with AXA. The first one was from around 1992 until 
1997. The second policy was from January 1998 until May 2002.
In 2019 Mrs M tried to make retrospective claims for periods of sickness in 1995 and 1999. 
She says she was unaware at the time of her absences from work that she had the policy 
and therefore she was unable to make claims at those times. AXA declined the claims on the 
basis that the policy terms stated that claims had to be submitted within 12 months of the 
commencement date of the disability.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. His view was that AXA should assess the claims. 
However, it came to light that Mrs M had previously received compensation from her 
mortgage lender for the mis-selling of both policies. She received around £10,000 for the first 
policy and £2,209.88 for the second policy.
In relation to the claim Mrs M wanted to make for sickness in 1995, were that claim to be 
successful, the maximum benefit she would have received under the policy would have been 
less than the £10,000 she has already received as compensation for mis-selling. Therefore, 
Mrs M would not receive any further payment from the claim, as AXA would be entitled to 
deduct the amount of mis-sale compensation from any claim payment. With that in mind, Mrs 
M has agreed that she no longer wishes to complain about the 1995 claim.
AXA did not agree with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just to be clear, this decision is only looking at whether AXA should agree to assess Mrs Ms 
claim for a period of sickness in 1999.
In relation to that claim, from the information available, the maximum benefit that Mrs M 
might receive for a successful claim would be around £4,800. As that is greater than the mis-
sale compensation of £2,209.88 that she received, there might be a benefit payable to Mrs 
M should the claim ultimately succeed.
In reaching the view that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld, our adjudicator quoted from 
the Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS), where it says that an insurer must 
not unreasonably reject a claim except where there is evidence of fraud, if it is a breach of a 
condition unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. So in this case, 
AXA would need to demonstrate how it is disadvantaged by Mrs M bringing her backdated 
claim now. Mrs M bringing the claim now does not appear to be material to the claim and so 
I dont think that AXA can rely on the term that she needed to make a claim within 12 
calendar months. As our adjudicator says, it has probably put Mrs M in a more difficult 
position to prove the merits of her claim.
On balance, I consider that AXA should assess Mrs Ms retrospective claim for disability. 
However, whilst I take the view that AXA should disregard that Mrs M didnt make the claim 
in accordance with the timeframe set out in the policy, that is not to say that AXA should now 
pay the claim. AXA doesnt have to set aside all of the other terms and conditions of the 
policy and is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that Mrs Ms disability 
meets the terms as set out in the policy.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. AXA Partners should assess Mrs Ms 1999 
sickness claim against the remaining policy terms, whilst disregarding the clause that a claim 
should be made within 12 calendar months of the commencement of the disability. AXA 
Partners should contact Mrs M with details of how the claims will now proceed and to ask 
her for any further information if necessary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman