DRN-3664798
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to tell him, 
during the sale of a Select Silver account, that if he made a claim under the mobile phone 
insurance policy that came with the account, he might not receive a phone of the same 
colour.
Mr M is also unhappy that when he made a claim under the mobile phone insurance policy 
he did not receive a replacement handset of the same colour.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong. She thought that the information provided during the sales process was 
sufficient to make it clear that there were no guarantees that in the event of a claim under 
the mobile phone insurance that the replacement phone would be exactly the same.
 
Mr M, in response, said that he believed that NatWest, through the insurance provider, 
should have ensured that he was aware of the colour change of the replacement handset 
that he received. It then should have given him the opportunity to wait for the desired colour. 
I can see that a complaint against the provider of the insurance has already been made and 
a final decision issued by this service. This complaint is about the actions of NatWest. I 
should highlight at this point that what the insurer did, or did not do, is not going to be 
considered as part of this decision I will only be looking at whether NatWest did anything 
wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im not able 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all 
of the evidence that is available.
Given that NatWest is not the insurer and is not responsible for the claims process I am only 
looking to see, in this case, if NatWest has done anything wrong. In this instance, this is 
limited to me looking at the information provided by NatWest when the account was sold and 
during the time Mr M held the account. 
Firstly, I have looked at the documentation that wouldve been provided during the sales 
process and I am satisfied that there is no term in the mobile phone insurance policy that 
guarantees the exact same mobile phone handset would be provided if a replacement was 
issued. In fact, the term says that the insurer could not guarantee that the features and 
functions of the replacement phone would be the same. I am satisfied that colour is a feature 
of a mobile phone handset. 
I have looked at the other documentation provided during the time Mr M held the phone and 
I cant see any document that says that a replacement phone would be identical to the one 
claimed for. So overall I cant say that NatWest misled Mr M or did anything else wrong in 
relation to the information that it provided Mr M. It follows then that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
I note Mr M still has concerns with the way his claim was handled, but as explained this is 
between him and the insurance provider and I can see that this has already been addressed 
at this service. So I cant comment on this.
For the sake of completeness, I should add that this decision represents that the last stage 
in our complaint process, but if Mr M remains unhappy, he might be entitled to refer his 
complaint elsewhere, such as court.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman