DRN-4288479
The complaint
Mr Y complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Burton, (NewDay) has failed to reimburse him 
for payments he didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mr Y disputed 41 transactions starting in March 2021. These payments were made to 
apps, which hed used previously, using his own devices. And Mr Y believes these 
payments were made by relatives visiting his home.
As NewDay didnt reimburse Mr Y for the transactions, he brought his complaint to 
our Service. He also complained about the service he received from NewDay when 
raising the disputed transactions. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, which was prolonged by repeated delays 
caused by NewDay. She ultimately concluded that Mr Y had provided a plausible 
explanation as to how the payments could have been made. And she wasnt 
persuaded that Mr Y had completed the agreed form and procedure. So she upheld 
the complaint. And she felt the service provided warranted a payment for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
NewDay disagreed. It didnt think there was enough evidence to confirm the 
transactions were fraudulent and it believes Mr Y authorised the transactions. 
Our investigator considered the points raised further but maintained her stance. She 
felt Mr Y continued to provide a plausible explanation for what happened. 
As the rules we follow  specifically Dispute Resolution rule 3.5.1  allow, I got in 
touch with NewDay informally to let it know how I was intending to proceed. It hadnt 
responded to our investigator. Provisionally, I felt that Mr Ys testimony had been 
consistent and was plausible. And that NewDay hadnt given evidence to support that 
Mr Y had completed the form and procedure required to carry out the payments 
using a credit facility. So I was minded to uphold the complaint in line with the 
investigators recommendation.
Despite ample opportunity, NewDay hasnt responded to informal attempts to resolve 
this complaint. So, Im now proceeding to decision to bring this matter to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr Y said he didnt authorise these transactions. He said he had two relatives staying 
with him at the time and that they could easily have located his phone and unlocked 
it, which could be done by entering a simple pattern. From here, seemingly no further 
passwords or login information would have been required and the card details were 
saved in the relevant apps. And, as the phone itself was within their possession, they 
would have been able to bypass any security measures  such as texts asking if 
Mr Y was making the payment. 
The disputed payments were made using more than one device. Mr Y has explained 
that there were further devices in his home which wouldnt have been password-
protected. Im satisfied that the explanation here is plausible and has been consistent 
overall. Having said that, I note that Mr Y is now aware of an issue with the security 
of his devices and it would be prudent now, if he hasnt already, to take action to 
rectify this. 
NewDay stated it spoke with Mr Y on the phone to approve a payment that appears 
to be one of those in dispute. But Ive not been provided with sufficient proof of this  
the call recording is unavailable, and Ive not been presented with further detail to 
support how NewDay can be confident it was Mr Y it spoke with.  
NewDay also referenced that Mr Y had been active on his online account during the 
time of the transactions. But these were relatively small payments to a merchant hed 
used before so, in the circumstances of this case, I dont find it implausible that Mr Y 
might not have identified there was an issue until some time later.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Y completed the form and procedure or gave 
permission for someone else to make the payments on his behalf. In line with the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, I consider these payments to be unauthorised. 
And given that the payments were made using a credit facility, Mr Y wouldnt be 
liable for the transactions. I will therefore be asking NewDay to refund these 
transactions. 
In addition, Mr Y raised concerns about the general service hed received including 
poor communication around timescales involved in the investigation of his disputed 
transactions, discrepancies around the information recorded, and his experience with 
the call handlers. Our investigator recommended a payment of £100, which Mr Y 
accepted, and NewDay hasnt provided anything substantive to lead me to think 
differently here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Burton. 
I require it to:
Rework Mr Ys account to remove the disputed payments  I understand the amount 
to be £412.62 - as well as any interest or charges associated with these;
If Mr Y has repaid some or all of the borrowing, it should refund the repayments and 
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of the repayment to the date of 
settlement;If applicable, remove or correct any adverse information from Mr Ys credit file and 
CIFAS record;
Pay £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the service failings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman