DRN-1535576
 
The complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford.
What happened 
Sunny gave Mr H five loans in total during the period June - July 2018. 
Heres a chart showing some of the main loan details:
loan date takendate
repaidmonthly 
instalmentsamounthighest* 
monthly
repayment
1 01/06/2018 18/07/2018 6 £400.00 £97.65
2 08/06/2018 18/06/2018 6 £500.00 £216.09
3 18/06/2018 18/07/2018 6 £500.00 £226.66
4 24/06/2018 Debt sold 6 £150.00 £264.42
5 18/07/2018 Debt sold 6 £750.00 £287.80
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Sunny first looked at Mr Hs complaint it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H was 
unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Sunny to have 
provided loans 1 - 3 and loan 5  but she said Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Mr H. 
She explained why and set out the steps she said Sunny should take to put things right for 
Mr H.
Sunny reconsidered its position and said that it was willing to accept the outcome of our 
adjudicators finding. Sunny sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we 
forwarded this information to Mr H. 
Mr H isnt happy with this proposed settlement. So his complaint comes to me to make a 
final decision. 
What I've decided - and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Like the adjudicator, I dont think Sunny shouldve provided loan 4 to Mr H. And as Sunny 
has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the steps she 
suggested to put things right for Mr H, I dont think I need to say more about this loan. Ive looked at the loans our adjudicator didnt uphold (loans 1 - 3 and loan 5). I've 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator about these loans. Ill 
explain why I say this.
Looking at loans 1  3, Ive looked at the information Sunny recorded for Mr H, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. 
Although these were quite large loan amounts, and the loans were taken out in quick 
succession, Mr H only ever had two of these loans outstanding at any one time.
He repaid loan 2 before taking out loan 3 the same day and borrowing the same amount 
again hed just repaid. I think that was potentially an early warning sign that he mightve 
been struggling to manage his money  but given this was early on in the lending 
relationship, I agree that there isnt enough to say Sunny shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mr H.
Overall, looking at the repayments that Mr H needed to make on loans 1 - 3, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Sunny to ask Mr H for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. 
I do think Sunny should have looked further into Mr Hs circumstances by the time he took 
out loan 5. But, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows 
Sunny would have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
So I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.
Having looked carefully at all the available information, I think the way the adjudicator 
suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable  and Sunny has agreed to do that 
and clarified what this means in terms of how the calculations work out.
So I think Sunny should now do what it has offered to put things right. 
I take this opportunity to remind Sunny (or any third party) that it should discuss payment 
options with Mr H and treat him fairly and sympathetically if an outstanding capital balance 
remains after offsetting and Mr H needs further time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr H would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
Sunny should buy back the outstanding debts it sold before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4 and treat any 
repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
 
B. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr H with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of this loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr H. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance, then Sunny should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file for loan 4 once it is repaid  and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same if Sunny sold this loan on. 
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out above to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman