DRN-3268362
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (BBI) has declined a claim 
she made under her pet insurance policy on the ground that the treatment claimed for 
related to a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Mrs Cs dog, which Ill refer to as R, was insured by BBI from 27 December 2019. In 2018, 
before this insurance was taken out, R was noted to have had a lump on her shoulder. Her 
vet suspected it was a benign skln tag and didnt treat it at the time but noted that if there 
were any changes removal should be considered.
In March 2021, the lump ruptured, and Rs vet recommended that it should be removed. On 
23 April 2021, during clipping of Rs fur in preparation for her surgery, the vet noticed 
another pea sized lump that had not previously been noticed. Mrs C gave permission for 
this new lump to be removed at the same time. The original lump was subsequently 
determined to be a benign lipoma. The new lump was determined to be a Grade II/low grade 
mast cell tumour (MCT).
Mrs C made a claim under her policy for the cost of the surgery. She was aware that she 
wasnt covered for the treatment of the original lump as it had been noted before she took 
out the policy and was therefore a pre-existing condition.
BBI rejected Mrs Cs claim for the treatment of the new lump. It referred to the terms of her 
policy which excludes claims for Pre-existing Conditions and for Associated Conditions, 
which are defined as follows (my emphasis underlined):
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION:
 
Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has occurred or existed, or has shown 
signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the 
Waiting Period in the first Period of Insurance. This also includes any diagnosis or any 
clinical signs caused by or resulting from an Accidental Injury or Illness Your pet had on 
an Associated Condition before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period in the 
first Period of Insurance.
ASSOCIATED CONDITION: 
An Associated Condition is one that falls into any of the below categories: 
Bilateral Conditions are any Illness or Accidental Injury that affects bilateral body parts of 
which Your pet has two, such as but not limited to, ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips 
and patellae. 
Recurring Conditions that are related to or caused by a previous Illness or Accidental 
Injury that may return or Your pet may become prone to, regardless of the number of 
times the Illness returns. 
Related Conditions that are related to or caused by a previous Illness or Accidental Injury 
shall be treated as the same Illness and will be subject to one Benefit Limit being applied 
to that Illness irrespective of where the clinical signs are noticed in or on Your pets body 
and whether diagnosed or not unless Your Vet confirms these are unrelated. We may 
seek confirmation of this from a Vet appointed by Us.
BBI maintains that the second lump was a Pre-existing or Associated Condition as it was 
related to the original lump, and the cost of its treatment was therefore excluded from the 
policy. 
Following BBIs rejection of Mrs Cs claim, the veterinary surgery provided a letter which 
stated: 
Please see below the clinical note from our vet [name] stating that the second lump was 
found on the day of surgery, and therefore not a pre-diagnosed condition.
"[Vets] notes to ins claim
As said in notes hx on 23.04.2021 during clipping of the op field found 2nd lump, called 
owner and gained permission to remove this additional lump (small pea sized R shoulder) 
this lump after histology is a MCT. This was a new found lump on the day which became 
visible after clipping the fur".
This clinical note proves that the 2nd lump found on [R] was not a pre-existing lump, and 
was found on the day of the surgery, therefore should not be excluded from the client's 
policy.
BBI has not sought any confirmation of this information or of any association between the 
two lumps from its own appointed veterinary advisors.
As she wasnt satisfied with BBIs continued rejection of her claim, Mrs C brough a complaint 
to this service. Our investigators view was that it appeared that the claim was declined by 
BBI based on an assumption that the two lumps were associated. She didnt think this was 
very persuasive and didnt consider that BBI had acted fairly in declining Mrs Cs claim. Her 
view was that BBI should pay the costs associated with the removal of the second lump.
BBI doesnt agree with our investigators view and maintains its position that the second 
lump was a Pre-existing/Associated Condition. Its asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive referred to the terms of Mrs Cs policy and have taken into account what it says about 
the exclusion of Pre-existing and Associated Conditions. However if BBI wishes to rely on an 
exclusion in the policy to decline a claim it has to provide evidence as to why the exclusion 
applies.
In the case of R, I consider that although there were two lumps found on R in the same 
general area of her body, it is for BBI to show that the second lump was either pre-existing or 
was related to or caused by the original pre-existing lump. Mrs Cs veterinary practice has explicitly stated that the second lump was new and only 
found on the day of surgery and was not pre-existing. Im therefore persuaded that BBI cant 
rely on the Pre-existing Condition exclusion.
The veterinary practices letter doesnt say whether the second lump was in any way related 
to or caused by the first lump, but Rs medical notes show that the lumps were different  
the first lump was a benign lipoma and the second was an MCT. BBI hasnt provided any 
evidence to suggest that an MCT can be related to or caused by a benign lipoma. I 
consider it would need to have done so to support its rejection of Mrs Cs claim on the 
Associated Condition ground.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
I require that Building Block Insurance PCC Limited settle Mrs Cs claim for the veterinary 
costs associated with the removal of Rs second lump subject to any other terms and 
conditions of her policy. 
If Mrs C has paid these costs already, they should be reimbursed to her with interest at the 
simple rate of 8% from the date she paid them until the date those costs are reimbursed to 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman