The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined a home 
contents insurance claim they made following a burglary. And they're unhappy UKI since 
cancelled the policy due to alleged fraud.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs K's home was burgled. The following day they contacted UKI to 
make a claim under their home insurance policy for the stolen items.
Mr and Mrs K provided UKI with a loss list on 11 June 2019, which included detailed 
descriptions of the stolen items, and supporting evidence such as photos and receipts.
UKI considered this list and said that the photos provided for three of the jewellery items 
claimed for had been taken after the date of the burglary. UKI told Mr and Mrs K of this 
discrepancy on 4 July 2019. Mr and Mrs K said the three items in question were stolen, but 
the conflicting dates for the photos may have been due to them changing their mobile 
phone some months before  which they suggested could've affected the data that showed 
the dates the photos were taken.
On 9 July 2019 UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs K declining the claim, and saying it considered they 
had deliberately provided inaccurate information. And it said it was cancelling the policy from 
13 June 2019 onwards in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs K complained to UKI, reiterating they didn't have the items in question and that 
they felt like they were being treated as criminals. Mr and Mrs K since said they checked 
over their claim submissions and realised they had made a mistake with the photos sent and 
didnt mean to include items they still had. UKI didn't change its position so Mr and Mrs K 
brought their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didn't uphold the complaint. She 
said the policy terms allowed UKI to not pay a claim if its in any way exaggerated, false or 
fraudulent. And because she found Mr and Mrs K's version of events had changed when 
they were challenged, she said UKI had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim as 
it had.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and said they were being punished for a simple oversight. And that 
if they had wanted to be dishonest or take advantage of the claim, they would've added 
other jewellery to the list. And they've said overall they felt they hadn't been treated fairly 
after realising they had made a mistake. So the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1090699Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
One of the general conditions of Mr and Mrs K's policy under the heading 'fraud' says:
"You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
your policy may be cancelled
we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
we may keep any premium you have paid."
In this case UKI has accepted Mr and Mrs K were burgled and had items stolen. But it has 
said Mr and Mrs Ks loss list included items that weren't taken, and that they had included 
these intentionally with fraudulent intent. Mr and Mrs K now accept the photos of the 
jewellery were taken after the burglary took place but said this was simply an oversight.
So I've looked at all the available evidence to determine whether UKI has acted fairly in 
invoking its fraud term.
When challenged about photos being taken after the burglary, Mr and Mrs K initially said the 
photos had been taken earlier in the year  around April or May 2019. And they attributed 
the confusion to incorrect data or corruption caused by downloading the photos or 
transferring them between phones. While I can't know what Mr and Mrs K believed when 
they made these statements, it's clear now that neither of these statements were accurate.
I've also noted that Mr and Mrs K didn't seem to check the accuracy of the loss li st that was 
provided to UKI either before first submitting it, or after being challenged about the specific 
items. And it was only after the claim and policy were cancelled they have since discovered 
they still own the three items in question. And I can understand why this would raise 
concerns with UKI.
Mr and Mrs K went on to tell UKI they had taken no new photos of any jewellery since the 
burglary. But since then theyve said they weren't aware new photos had been mixed up into 
the loss list so their account to UKI was honest. I accept this is possible, but on the balance 
of probability it seems unlikely to me. And I agree with our investigator's comments that Mr 
and Mrs K's account of events have been inconsistent. 
Overall, I'm satisfied UKI fairly applied its general condition fraud term in both declining the 
claim and cancelling the policy. So I'm not directing UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.Jack Baldry
Ombudsman