DRN-3369738
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was given incorrect advice from TSB Bank plc on two occasions.
What happened
Mr D says he asked TSB if he was eligible for a cashback reward on his account. He says 
he was told on two separate occasions that he was eligible and so he made the required 
number of transactions. Mr D says he was then told by TSB that he wasnt eligible. He says 
he spent some hours to TSB on the telephone about this issue and in summary says TSBs 
compensation offer doesnt go far enough.
TSB accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says Mr D wasnt eligible for the 
reward and has paid £25 compensation for its mistake. It also says it has refunded £14 call 
costs and paid two months account rewards of £10.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint having listened to 
the various calls from 2010. The investigator thought Mr Ds call costs were higher and that 
the impact of the mistake was more significant. The investigator recommended TSB pay a 
further £75 compensation and a further £23 for the call costs.
TSB says it will pay the call costs but says £25 compensation is appropriate for the impact 
its mistake had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSBs compensation offer doesnt go far 
enough for the reasons I will explain.
There is no question here that TSB on two separate occasions gave Mr D incorrect 
information about his reward eligibility. I have no doubt Mr D was caused inconvenience and 
distress in those circumstances to be later told that information was incorrect. I accept that 
Mr D spent some considerable time on those three calls to TSB and that he would have 
made the required spending for two months based on the incorrect information he received.
So, I dont think £25 compensation fairly reflects the impact this mistake had on Mr D, the 
time he spent on it and that he carried out the required transactions. Im satisfied that an 
overall total of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the type of 
awards we make in these circumstances. I appreciate Mr D would like an hourly rate paid to 
him for his time but that is not something we base our awards on.
Im satisfied that TSB has fairly apologised for its mistake and has fairly agreed to pay and 
further pay for Mr Ds call costs. I also think TSB acted fairly by paying the reward for the two 
month period and I accept that it offered to repay the call costs at an early stage.
Putting things right
TSB should pay Mr D a further £75 compensation and £23 for his extra call costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr D £75 
compensation and £23 for his call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman