DRN-3253550
The complaint
Mr M has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited as his home breakdown and 
repair insurance provider. 
What happened
Mr M was due to have his water tank replaced under his home care policy. The work was 
scheduled for 18 December 2020. When it was done Mr M said he was unhappy because:
The replacement hot water tank is used not new and the electrical unit wasnt fitted 
securely to the top of the tank.
The fitter was negligent resulting in damage being caused to; the ceiling below, some 
shelving and two bath sheets. 
The shower pump which was re-fitted during the work is not sitting correctly the pipework 
is also kinked.
As British Gas didnt reply to Mr Ms complaint he referred it to us. British Gas then told Mr M 
that it would be prepared to accept some liability for some of the concerns he raised. It said it 
would pay him £250 as compensation for both his financial and non-financial losses. Mr M 
said he was looking for around £450 which would include, for example, his cost for 
repainting the ceiling which British Gas had indicated to Mr M it had accepted liability for. 
Seemingly British Gas wasnt prepared to meet Mr Ms figure. And it told us that it didnt think 
it was liable for the ceiling damage  it thought this likely stemmed from the leak which had 
been occurring and caused the water tank to need replacing. It said if towels had been used 
and damaged by its operative it would consider replacing them. The shelving had to be 
moved  but that was just an unavoidable inconvenience, so it wasnt prepared to pay for 
that. Regarding the shower pump it said its fitted with a flexi hose, capable of being bent 
without reducing the water flow. It said an operative was going to attend to fix the electrical 
unit securely on to the water tank, but the tank is new not used. It acknowledged that, that all 
being said, it has no photos of the work completed and it hasnt been possible for it to speak 
to the operative who carried out the work.
Our investigator didnt think there was any evidence that British Gas had damaged Mr Ms 
ceiling. But she felt it should compensate him for the inconvenience of his towels likely being 
damaged by its operative and for any upset caused by it not rectifying the issue with the 
electrical unit for several months. She said it should pay £150 compensation, which British 
Gas agreed to.
Mr M said he thought his complaint has been misunderstood and poorly investigated. He 
said his ceiling had not been damaged before the work undertaken by British Gas on 
18 December 2020. Mr M detailed what happened on the day the new tank was fitted. He 
also explained how he had repaired the ceiling and reinstalled shelving around the tank.
Mr M also said hed raised an issue of concern with us about British Gas sending complaint 
correspondence to the wrong address. And he was unhappy to note that we hadnt 
addressed or referred to this issue during our assessment. 
His complaint was passed to me to consider. I thought there was limited evidence of the 
losses Mr M had said hed suffered. But I was persuaded hed had some loss, and likely 
some upset too. So I said British Gas should pay him £500 compensation. 
Mr M said he accepted my findings. British Gas didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Complaint correspondence
I appreciate that Mr M may not, to date, have received an explanation for why this aspect 
hasnt been considered by ourselves. Id like to take this opportunity to explain that this isnt 
an aspect of Mr Ms complaint that this service can consider. That is because our rules say 
we can only consider regulated activities  and how a business handles a complaint is not a 
regulated activity. So British Gas sending complaint correspondence to Mr B, but at his 
neighbours address, was done in the course of it handling his complaint. As such I cant 
take that issue or the frustration it understandably caused Mr M into account.
New or used
I understand theres some cosmetic damage to the exterior of the tank. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think the tank was used. I know Mr M has said he was told 
apprentices may have used it for training, but British Gas says that its not uncommon for 
damage like this to occur to these tanks in transport, and it doesnt affect their function. 
I cant be sure which is most likely to have happened here, but, either way, it doesnt seem 
Mr M has any real loss as a result.
Was the ceiling likely damaged when the tank was fitted?
I understand that whilst British Gas initially thought it couldnt reasonably deny that its 
operative had damaged the ceiling, upon review it felt it was more likely the damage had 
occurred due to the on-going leak. 
In reviewing this aspect of Mr Ms complaint Im mindful that as he is saying British Gas 
caused damage to his property, its up to him to show that is most likely the case. I bear in 
mind that there is limited evidence about the state of the ceiling before the tank was fitted but 
that it is known that there was an existing leak on the tank. In some circumstances I think 
that might be sufficient to tip the balance just into favour of the ceiling damage likely being 
pre-existing. But Im not satisfied I can reasonably conclude that here.
I say that as I note that British Gass assessment of this complaint seems to have been 
based on a lot of assumptions as it hasnt been able to speak to the operative who 
completed the work. But Mr M has been able to recount quite clearly what happened on that 
day. And I find his detail persuasive. Hes also shown photos of the damaged ceiling and it 
doesnt look to me like staining which has occurred over a period of time. Im also mindful 
that the initial report of the leak by a British Gas operative noted that there was a small leak into the (insulating) foam around the tank. So there was no suggestion this was a large leak 
likely causing damage to the property. I know Mr M was happy to continue for a few days 
without draining the tank  and I dont think he would have done that if his ceiling was 
already being damaged by it. Taking everything into account, I think its most likely that 
damage occurred during British Gass work at Mr Ms home on 18 December 2020, and it 
should compensate him for that. 
Mr M says he paid £175 cash for the work to be done, but he bought the paint. To get a 
good finish, I can accept that the ceiling as a whole would need a couple of coats of paint, 
possibly some stain block. So Ill take that fact and the figure of £175 Mr M says he paid 
someone to complete the work into account when saying below what British Gas should pay 
Mr M to put matters right. As well as the upset and inconvenience this likely caused Mr M.
The towels
Ive said that Im satisfied that a leak from the tank likely occurred on 18 December 2020, 
and that Im persuaded by Mr Ms testimony as to what happened that day. It follows that 
I accept its most likely that British Gass operative used two of Mr Ms good, large towels to 
try and stem the flow of the water, damaging them irrevocably in the process. Whilst the 
towels werent new and had been used, Mr M only has to replace them because of British 
Gass actions. So he should be compensated for their replacement value which he says is 
£150. Ill take the fact that Mr M is having to replace towels due to British Gass work into 
account at the end when I say what must be done to put matters right. 
Shelving
Mr M says he left unfitted shelving in the cupboard by the old tank as this couldnt be 
removed with the tank in the way. And British Gass operative installed the new tank in front 
of the shelving which should have been moved. The shelving had to be cut to be removed 
and Mr M bought new shelving, fitting it in an accessible position near the tank.
I note again that British Gass operative hasnt been available for comment and Im 
persuaded by Mr Ms testimony. Ideally Mr M would have given clear instructions to the 
operative whilst he was working there and I cant be sure if he did or not. But Id have 
thought that any fitter paying attention to their environment would have noticed they were 
installing a large immovable tank in front of unfitted shelving which it would not be possible 
to use or move once the tank was in place. The operative should have spoken to Mr M and 
made sure to move the shelving. Mr M should be compensated for buying new shelving and 
fitting it. Hes asked for £60 for this, and Ill bear that in mind when I say what must be done 
to put matters right. 
Electrical unit and shower pump pipework
British Gas said it would secure the electrical unit. And Mr M acknowledges that this work, 
plus replacing a cable on the tank, was completed. When Mr M told British Gas about the 
£450 he wanted from it, he didnt detail within that any costs he had or would incur for 
resolving either the electrical unit or the shower pump pipework. So, at this time, I am going 
to consider these two issues as being resolved as far as the physical repair is concerned. 
But Ill take the fact of the need for these to be resolved and the upset that caused Mr M into 
account when setting out what I think British Gas should now pay Mr M.
As Mr M accepted my provisional findings, and British Gas didnt object to them, Ive no 
reason to change them. My provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final 
decision.Putting things right
I set out above, quoted from my provisional findings, some figures Mr M has told us about, 
being costs he incurred in resolving certain things after British Gas failed to complete work at 
his home, and caused damage to his property on 18 December 2020. I bear in mind that 
there is limited evidence to support the costs Mr M has asked for. But I dont doubt hes had 
some financial loss and been caused some upset. Taking these aspects into account, Im 
satisfied that British Gas should pay Mr M a total of £500 compensation. I think this fairly and 
reasonably makes up for his likely financial and non-financial losses.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman