DRN-3551296
The complaint
Mr L has complained about ACI-UK LIMITED, saying that they tried to take payments after a 
debt was recalled.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In February 2022, Mr Ls loan account was sold on in error. The new debt owner asked ACI 
to service the account. Mr L was in a debt management plan with StepChange, so ACI got in 
touch with StepChange to let them know they should forward any future payments to them 
now, instead of the original lender. They did this via a bulk communication.
Mr L then let ACI know the debt was in dispute. ACI put things on hold. The original lenders 
administrators confirmed the account was sold in error, so ACI started the recall process.
In March 2022, StepChange confirmed the account was transferred to ACI, but then was 
removed from Mr Ls debt management plan a few days later without any payments being 
taken.
Mr L argues that this means ACI tried to chase him and take payments while the debt was 
on hold and after they knew it needed to be recalled.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr L has gone through a truly tough time in general, and so he has 
my sympathy. I can certainly appreciate that he wants to avoid further stress.
I also appreciate why he feels that ACI may have acted inappropriately, not least as there 
have been a lot of different dates mentioned in the correspondence, and it looks like perhaps 
the different parties got their wires crossed along the way.
I should explain that debt collectors (such as ACI) and debt management companies (such 
as StepChange) deal with very large numbers of accounts. So instead of sending lots and 
lots of individual emails about each individual account, theyll often communicate with each 
other in bulk, sending details about many different accounts all at once.
Here, ACI added Mr Ls account to a regular bulk communication they had with StepChange, 
to let StepChange know that ACI were now servicing the account and that any future 
payments should be made to them instead of the original lender. And this was added on 
10 February  before ACI were told about the recall, and before the account was on hold. At 
that point, ACI didnt yet know the account had been sold on in error, and as far as they 
knew they were just collecting a debt in good faith. It was also what ACI said they would do 
in the notice of assignment they sent Mr L. So I dont think they got things wrong there.
These bulk communications often take time to go through and to get processed, since they 
involve so many accounts. So StepChange didnt transfer the debt to ACI until 10 March. To 
clarify, that doesnt mean that ACI contacted StepChange on 10 March, though I understand 
where Mr Ls misconception has come from. It just means that on 10 March, StepChange 
updated things on their end to reflect that they should deal with ACI instead of the original 
lender. StepChange confirmed that they updated ACI on 10 March  not the other way 
around.
Of course, by 10 March, ACI had already started the process to recall this debt. So they 
never actually took any payments from StepChange, and on 14 March the debt was 
removed from Mr Ls StepChange account.
So I have not found that ACI tried to take any undue payments once they knew the situation. 
As far as I can see, they let StepChange know they were dealing with the account, then they 
recalled the debt after they found out it should not have been sold on. No payments were 
taken. Further, from what Ive seen, ACI did not chase Mr L for this debt or send him any 
collections correspondence after the account was put on hold.
I can certainly understand why Mr L wouldve felt stressed about the prospect of a payment 
being taken for an account he shouldnt be paying for. But ACI didnt actually take any 
payments  by the time StepChange transferred the debt to ACI, ACI had already started the 
recall process. And generally speaking, we only award compensation for things which 
actually happened, rather than things which could have happened but didnt. 
Really, I think the main source of the problem here was that the debt was incorrectly sold on 
in the first place  and that was done by the original lender, rather than ACI. From what Ive 
seen, it looks like ACI acted broadly reasonably based on what they knew at the time.
So while I understand where Mr L is coming from, I do not make an award against ACI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman