DRN-3808952
The complaint
Mr C complains that he cant make payments to his credit card company online anymore 
following changes Bank of Scotland plc has made to its security processes. Mr C complains 
that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt call him on his landline to make sure these payments  - 
which he says are the only ones hes makes online that are for over £100  arent fraudulent 
in line with its new security processes.
What happened
Mr C has a current account and a debit card with Bank of Scotland and a credit card with 
another business. He doesnt own a mobile phone, but he does have a landline.
In August 2021 Mr C spoke to Bank of Scotland several times to say that he was having 
problems making online payments with his debit card  including making a payment towards 
his credit card balance. Bank of Scotland initially said that it could see what the problem was 
and that it had fixed it. Bank of Scotland later accepted that it didnt fix the problem and 
offered Mr C £25 in compensation. Bank of Scotland said that the payments he was trying to 
make were being flagged by its systems meaning someone from its fraud department should 
have contacted him to check the payment was genuine.
Mr C didnt accept Bank of Scotlands offer of compensation. He says hes still having 
problems making payments online towards his credit card. He says that no-one calls him 
when he tries to make a payment online and that he ends up having to call Bank of Scotland 
and make the payment over the telephone. He complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that Bank of Scotland hadnt 
acted unfairly as it had offered to compensate him for the inconvenience hed experienced 
and had offered an alternative way to authenticate that didnt involve a mobile phone  
namely landline authentication. Mr C disagreed saying that the problem hadnt been fixed 
and that Bank of Scotland werent calling him  as it had said it would  when he wanted to 
make payments of over £100. He also said that he still couldnt make payments of over £100 
online. He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
Having looked into Mr Cs complaint, I issued a provisional decision saying that I was 
satisfied that Mr C was still having problems authenticating payments to his credit card using 
his landline. I also said I was satisfied that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt got to the bottom of 
why Mr C was having these problems, and whether they were because of a problem at its 
end, the credit card companys end or Mr Cs end. So I required Bank of Scotland to get to 
the bottom of why Mr C was having problems authenticating payments to his credit card 
company and to let me know the outcome when it replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to award Mr C £300 in compensation in 
addition to requiring Bank of Scotland to get to the bottom of the problems he was having. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. More importantly, following further exchanges 
Ive had with Bank of Scotland, both parties have confirmed that Mr C is now able to 
successfully authenticate using his landline.
As both parties have accepted, and Im satisfied that the problems Mr C was having have 
now been resolved, Im going to require Bank of Scotland to pay £300 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to award Mr C £300 in compensation and I 
wanted to make sure Mr Cs problems were resolved. Both parties were happy with that as a 
resolution. So, Im satisfied thats how to put things right in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr C £300 in compensation 
now that its resolved the problems that he was having authenticating.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman