DRN-3594896
The complaint
Mr W complains Go Car Credit Limited (Go Car Credit) provided him with incorrect 
information when it told him he was unable to voluntary terminate his hire purchase 
agreement. And he said a third party harassed and bullied him when attempting to arrange 
collection of the car.
What happened
Mr W acquired a car under a 48 month hire purchase agreement with Go Car Credit in 
January 2018. Mr W says he lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so he contacted Go 
Car Credit. Due to the level of arrears owed under the agreement, Go Car Credit agreed a 
repayment plan with Mr W in March 2020 for three months. But Go Car Credit says Mr W 
didnt make the first payment owed under this payment plan. It says it tried to contact Mr W a 
number of times unsuccessfully and as a result of this, it terminated Mr Ws agreement in 
June 2020. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W complained to Go Car Credit and said it should have allowed him to 
voluntary terminate the agreement. However, he says it told him he couldnt do this. 
Go Car Credit issued its response to Mr Ws complaint in July 2020. It said it had correctly 
terminated the agreement as there were outstanding arrears owed under the agreement and 
Mr W didnt keep up with the agreed repayment plan. It said as it couldnt reach Mr W, it was 
unable to understand his circumstances. Had it been able to do this, it said Mr W may have 
been able to voluntary terminate his agreement.
Mr W responded in February 2021 and said he didnt receive a copy of Go Car Credits 
response from July 2020. He reiterated his complaint about being unable to voluntary 
terminate the agreement and said he had received a number of calls from a third party 
company to arrange collection of the car. He said this was harassment and it had used 
bullying tactics.
In April 2021, Go Car Credit looked into the complaint Mr W had raised in February 2021 
and issued a further response to Mr W. However, it said as it had been unable to speak to 
Mr W about the bullying or harassment, it didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this,    
Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said because of the amount of time that had 
passed, we couldnt consider the issues that Go Car Credit had addressed in its final 
response issued in July 2020. She also said she hadnt seen any information to suggest that 
Go Car Credit had harassed or bullied Mr W. So she didnt think Go Car Credit had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr W disagreed and said he thought we should consider his complaint as he moved address 
and didnt receive a copy of the final response letter from Go Car Credit in July 2020.
Ive previously issued a decision explaining why our service cant consider Mr Ws complaint 
about Go Car Credits actions prior to the agreement being terminated. These complaint 
points arent in our jurisdiction. So this decision will only focus on Mr Ws complaint that a 
third party bullied and harassed him when attempting to arrange collection of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Go Car Credit, or an agent of it, harassed or 
bullied Mr W when attempting to arrange collection of the car. Having done so, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Mr W was harassed or bullied by Go Car Credit or an agent of it. 
Ill explain why.
Go Car Credit told Mr W it would be terminating his agreement and would pass the account 
to its collections department in July 2020. Following this, I can see that Go Car Credit sent 
Mr W a text message in October 2020 asking him to contact it. It also unsuccessfully tried to 
call Mr W twice in November 2020 and it sent him one text message on 16 February 2021 
and tried to call him on 19 February 2021. 
Later that day, Mr W called Go Car Credit to explain his circumstances and to complain that 
he received almost 20 missed calls a day during the Covid-19 pandemic from third party 
companies attempting to collect the car. He also let Go Car Credit know he was suffering 
from mental health problems. Im sorry to hear about this.
Ive looked at the system notes provided by Go Car Credit. I can see that Go Car Credit 
asked Mr W to provide supporting information to support his claims about the bullying and 
harassment. And it attempted to contact him on 10 different occasions to discuss his 
complaint. But Mr W didnt contact Go Car Credit and neither did he provide any further 
information to it. Our investigator also asked Mr W to provide further information about the 
bullying and harassment, but this wasnt provided by Mr W.
Having thought about this, I dont think Go Car Credit attempting to contact Mr W four times 
between October 2020 and February 2021 was excessive or constitutes harassment. And 
neither do I think it harassed or bullied Mr W when it tried to speak to him about this 
complaint, by attempting to contact him on 10 different occasions. In addition, as Mr W 
hasnt provided any supporting information to demonstrate that he received excessive 
contact or that the contact he says he received was harassment or bullying, I cant fairly 
conclude that he was bullied or harassed by Go Car Credit or an agent of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman