DRN-3065210
The complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) have overcharged him when converting a large euro 
payment into his sterling bank account. 
What happened
Mr M says he had arranged for a large sum of euros to be sent into his sterling bank 
account, but when the payment was converted, the exchange rate he received was 
considerably less favourable to other banks and the general exchange rate available at that 
time. Mr M say he feels TSB have overcharged him and unreasonably profited by hidden 
transactions costs within the exchange rate. Mr M wants TSB to reach an agreeable 
settlement and be clearer on their website regarding international payment costs and make 
live exchange rates available.
TSB says they applied the standard exchange rate for the day, and this can change minute 
by minute and other banks may set different exchange rates, from time to time. TSB says 
this is explained in their terms and conditions and have done nothing wrong. 
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt TSB had used their exchange rate to convert the euros and referred to the 
terms and conditions relating to this. The investigator says Mr M could have contacted TSB 
prior to the euro payment being sent or have arranged for the payment to be sent in sterling 
if he had wanted to secure a better rate of exchange. The investigator says TSB acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms bank account. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand, given the amount of the transaction here, it would be upsetting for Mr M to 
receive an exchange rate on the euro payment into his sterling bank account, he believed 
was considerably less favourable to what other high street banks offered at that time. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB have unfairly profited from the 
conversion of Mr Ms euro payment to his sterling bank account. 
What happened here was at the end of April 2021, Mr M received a considerable euro 
payment into his sterling bank account which was converted at that time using TSBs 
exchange rate. Mr M feels TSB have in some way profited by levying hidden charges within 
the exchange rate they used, given the exchange rate he received was not comparable with 
market rates and other bank exchange rates on that day. Mr B says as a result he has lost 
out by several thousand pounds compared to a colleague carrying out a similar transaction 
with another bank. 
I have considered the points Mr M makes here, but the first thing to say is, its not the role of 
this service to tell banks, like TSB, what exchange rates they must use nor that it must make 
available to its customer how they calculate these rates. While Mr M feels TSB have 
profiteered by applying the exchange rate it did and it wasnt comparable to market rates at 
that time, its fair to say that exchange rates are subject to regular changes from time to time 
and each bank will set their own rates accordingly. In the terms and conditions of Mr Ms 
bank account it does state :
Well convert the currency into pounds using our standard exchange rate on the day we 
make the conversion. You can find out our exchange rates by calling us or asking in branch.
While Mr M says there is no explanation how TSB calculate their standard exchange rate, I 
am satisfied this information might be commercially sensitive and I cant tell TSB they must 
divulge this. What is important here is I can see no evidence to show Mr M ever attempted to 
contact TSB prior to arranging for the euro payment, to either establish the exchange rate 
TSB might use or seek their advice for any other options that might be available to him. I say 
this because the sum involved here was fairly considerable and therefore its reasonable to 
say the exchange rate would have been of significant importance to Mr M here. 
Although Mr M would like to see what he describes as live exchange rates on TSBs 
website, again I cant tell TSB this is a service they must provide its customers, however 
beneficial Mr M may find this. So here, while I can understand how upset Mr M was to find 
the exchange rate, he received from TSB was less favourable than the general market rates 
on offer, and that a colleague of his received from a competitor bank, its reasonable to say 
that banks will offer different exchange rates at different times. 
It follows, even if Mr M doesnt agree, I can see no evidence to suggest TSB did anything 
other than apply their exchange rate at the time the euro payment was received, even if Mr 
M feels the rate given by TSB wasnt competitive in the market. While Mr M will be 
disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman