DRN-1812308
The complaint
Mr P complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited didn't assess his claim fairly 
after an accident in September 2016. He also complains that Markerstudy failed to keep him 
updated about the claim and didn't let him know that they'd settled it they way they had, 
which caused problems when he took out a policy with a different insurer.
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy for his car with Markerstudy.  In September 2016 he 
told Markerstudy that his car had been involved in an incident, but he said there was no 
impact between his car and the other vehicle. The account he gave was that the other driver 
tried to overtake him, while they were both attempting to take the same exit from a 
roundabout, but there was no contact between their vehicles.
Markerstudy initially denied liability for the accident and said the other driver was at fault. But 
the other driver's insurers also denied liability and claimed Mr P was to blame for the 
accident. Markerstudy thought they might be able to agree a 50/50 split on liability but the 
other driver's insurers weren't prepared to accept this and threatened to issue legal 
proceedings.
Mr P had a passenger in his car who made a personal injury claim and had told his solicitors 
a minor impact occurred between the two vehicles. The damage to the other car was also 
consistent with the account of the accident the other driver had given. There was no CCTV 
footage available to confirm the exact circumstances of the accident. Despite this Mr P 
maintained that they'd been no impact between the vehicles.
Faced with the conflicting accounts Markerstudy didn't feel there were any reasonable 
prospects of successfully defending court proceedings, so they agreed to settle the claim in 
favour of the other driver. Mr P feels they should have obtained his agreement before doing 
this.
Mr P doesn't feel that Markerstudy kept him informed about the progress of the claim, or 
about the settlement they agreed. In December 2016 Markerstudy contacted Mr P to request 
more information about the accident circumstances, to help them resolve the issue of 
liability. Then in March 2017 they wrote to him again, saying they were trying to settle 
the claim on a 50/50 basis, but if this couldn't be agreed they might have to settle the claim 
in full. Mr P replied to this letter saying he didn't agree to the claim being settled, and he'd 
take the matter out of their hands. He didn't hear anything further from Markerstudy after 
this.
Mr P says he only found out the claim had been settled, some time later, when he took out a 
policy with another insurer. He raised a complaint with Markerstudy which wasn't upheld, as 
they said they kept him advised about the claim. They'd carried out a full investigation of the 
claim, his policy gave them authority to take over and settle the claim, and it had been 
settled on the best available terms.Mr P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didn't 
recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Markerstudy had carried out a proper 
investigation of the accident, and given the evidence their decision to settle the claim in 
favour of the other driver was reasonable, and the terms and conditions of Mr P's policy 
allowed them to do this. And having told Mr P they'd have to settle the other's driver claim if 
a 50/50 compromise couldn't be agreed, he didn't think they then needed to advise him it 
had been settled. Particularly as he'd told them he was taking the case out of their hands, 
but then didn't contact them again.
Mr P didn't accept our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr P's complaint. He's unhappy Markerstudy decided to settle the 
other driver's claim without his consent, and that they didn't tell him this had been done.
It's not my role to decide who was responsible for the accident. What I have to consider is 
whether Markerstudy carried out a fair and reasonable investigation of the accident 
circumstances. 
Mr P told Markerstudy that there'd been no impact between his car and the other driver's. He 
maintained this account even when his passenger made a claim, saying there'd been a 
minor impact. And the damage to the other driver's car was shown to be consistent with their 
account, that an impact had occurred. There was no CCTV footage and no independent 
evidence to confirm the actual accident circumstances. 
Markerstudy initially denied liability, and when the other driver's insurers blamed Mr P for the 
accident, they tried to agree a 50/50 settlement. Legal proceedings were threatened and 
Markerstudy felt they couldn't successfully defend these, so they agreed to settle the claim 
on a full liability basis.
Given the evidence of Mr P's passenger and the damage to the other vehicle, which both 
confirmed that there had been an impact, I think that it was reasonable for Markerstudy to 
conclude they'd have to settle the claim. And Mr P's policy states, in the Claims Procedures 
section,
'We shall have discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the settlement of any 
claim'. 
This is a standard term in car insurance policies and gives the insurer the discretion to settle
claims in the way they see fit. Mr P agreed the policy terms and conditions when he took out 
the policy. So I can't say Markerstudy did anything wrong when they settled the other driver's 
claim, and they didn't have to obtain Mr P's consent.
Mr P also complains about the way that Markerstudy communicated with him about his 
claim. He's particularly upset that they didn't let him know how the claim had been settled.
From the correspondence I can see that Markerstudy wrote to Mr P on 19 December 2016 to 
request further information about the accident circumstances, to help try and resolve the 
issue of liability. And they wrote to him again on 22 March 2017, to update him, saying 
they were trying to settle the claim as a 50/50 split but that if this wasn't possible, they might be forced to settle the claim in the other driver's favour. In response to this Mr P says he told 
them he didn't accept this and would take the matter from their hands.
While I understand Mr P was upset not to hear anything further, he'd told Markerstudy he 
was taking the matter out of their hands but then didn't contact them again. They didn't need 
his consent to settle the claim. And there aren't any industry rules requiring insurers  to 
inform consumers when a claim has been settled.
While I understand Mr P was upset to learn how the claim had been settled some time 
afterwards, I can't say that Markerstudy did anything wrong or acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I don't uphold Mr P's claim against 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman