DRN-2907438
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc handled 
its application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme. 
Mr B is Ms director and brings the complaint on its behalf. He is represented in doing so by 
Mr M.
What happened
M approached Bank of Scotland with a request to borrow £150,000 under the Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme in September 2020.
To consider the application further, Bank of Scotland requested a cashflow forecast and 12-
month projection. M obtained this information from its accountant and provided it to the bank. 
But despite this additional information, the bank declined Ms application. It explained that 
the purpose of the loan was outside of the banks lending criteria. 
While Mr M accepts the banks decision, he thinks it shouldve been made sooner. He says 
that the eligibility of the purpose of the loan ought to have been considered at an earlier 
stage  prior to inviting M to obtain the additional financial information, for which it had to pay 
its accountant £1,050. He also says that the application process was longer and more 
involved than ought to have been necessary as a result, with him and Mr B having spent an 
approximate 30-40 hours time on it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, she didnt think it wouldve been clear 
at an early stage that the application wasnt going to succeed  and prematurely declining 
the request wouldnt have been fair to M either. She also thought the bank had made it clear 
to M that even if the projections were provided, the application was still subject to 
underwriting  and so it wasnt guaranteed to be approved.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that as a matter of process, the 
bank ought to have considered whether the loan purpose fell within scope when initially 
reviewed. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, Ms application was dealt with by a business development manager who was in 
dialogue with the banks credit team. He emailed M to say that there would appear to be 
scope to consider CBIL borrowing further, but that further information was needed in order 
to demonstrate affordability  and align with the banks credit policy appetite. 
Mr M says that the managers comments suggest the purpose of the loan indicate that the 
loan purpose had been discussed. And more broadly, he says that either way it should have 
been. So he says the application ought to have been declined at this point  without the 
need for the additional financial information that ultimately had no bearing on the outcome.
On the other hand, Bank of Scotland says that Ms request was not one that could have 
been declined at an early stage. It cites the subjectivity around interpreting what CBIL 
borrowing could be used for and says that declining earlier couldve adversely impacted M, 
particularly in unfairly depriving it of access to the CBIL. 
Ive carefully considered the issues in light of what both parties and said have provided to us. 
Having done so, I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error when inviting M to submit 
further information rather than declining its application on initial review. I say this because:
While I agree with the logic in expecting a bank to consider the purpose of the loan in 
any preliminary review, I think the position under the CBIL Scheme was slightly more 
complex than for a typical loan. I think there was some level of consideration as to 
the suitability of the loan purpose initially  but those involved thought a case could 
be made for the loans approval. From what Ive seen, I dont think it was a foregone 
conclusion that the application would not succeed  so I think it was reasonable to 
refer the application to an underwriter, for which additional information was needed. 
The decision centred on an individual interpretation of the proposal by the 
underwriter and I dont think it wouldve been fair to M for the bank to determine the 
application at an earlier stage  which wouldve deprived the company of the 
underwriters review (and appeal process), either of which could have yielded the 
desired outcome. 
When requesting the additional financial information, Bank of Scotland made it clear 
that the application would still be subject to the underwriting process. So it was up to 
M to decide if it wished to incur the cost of this information, in the knowledge that 
there was no guarantee that the application would be successful and that the time 
and money spent in pursuing it would be lost.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mr B as I appreciate both their strength of feeling 
and the reasons behind it, I dont think Bank of Scotland dealt with Ms application unfairly  
so Im not requiring it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman