DRN-3052167
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a caravan acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs H was supplied with a caravan and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
Mrs H experienced an issue with the mover mechanism. When she used the remote control 
to engage the mover, the caravan rolled on into another vehicle. Following this, Mrs H 
noticed that the rod underneath had snapped. Mrs H asked to reject the caravan. The 
supplying dealer carried out repairs to the broken rod. Mrs H says she didnt authorise these 
repairs. Following this, Close Brothers arranged an inspection of the caravan. The report 
concluded that the damage to the rod had been caused by Mrs H not operating the mover 
correctly. Based on the report, Close Brothers declined Mrs Hs request to reject the 
caravan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In my decision I explained that Id looked at 
the report, which said that the remote-control unit was functioning correctly and should not 
have caused the mover to run on. I noted that the report concluded that the cause of the 
issue was operator error. I referenced the clarification remarks from the inspecting engineer, 
who said that even if the activation bar had been detached before the accident, this would 
not have been the cause of the caravan rolling on, and that he thought the activation bar 
couldve become detached as a result of the impact with the other vehicle.
I explained that having considered all of the evidence, I didnt think there was anything to 
suggest that there was a manufacturing or inherent fault with the mover, or that corrosion 
was the cause of the broken rod. I said that whilst I could see that there was rust in the area 
where the mover was situated, I hadnt seen evidence to persuade me that the rust had 
caused the mover to fail. I explained that on balance, I was persuaded by the engineers 
report and that I didnt think the issue was caused by a manufacturing fault. It followed that I 
didnt find the caravan to be of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision and said she didnt agree with it. She said she 
had a witness who was prepared to say that the salesman who sold the caravan to Mrs H 
told her that the remote control was faulty as he himself had nearly had an accident with the 
caravan having engaged one side of the mover thinking it had engaged both sides. Mrs H 
also said that if you looked at the broken rod you could see that it was rusted and if the rod 
had broken in the accident it wouldve been shiny metal. Mrs H said shed taken advice from 
a company who had advised her that if you engage the mover both sides should engage and 
the reason this didnt happen is because the rod was already broken.
Close Brothers didnt respond to my provisional decision.
The matter has now been passed back to me for further review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the additional points made by Mrs H. Ive reviewed all of the 
information including the inspection report. Having done so, my view hasnt changed from 
that which I set out in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mrs H feels very strongly that the rod mustve been broken  either due to 
rust or some other factor  before she engaged the remote control. But this isnt supported 
by the engineering evidence. And although Mrs H has referred to a witness and a company 
who shes taken advice from, I havent bee provided with first hand evidence from either of 
those sources, so I cant give very much weight to that evidence.
On balance, and whilst I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this, I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman