DRN-1716099
The complaint
Mr O complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O took out a policy with UKI in August 2019 and made his first payment. UKI didnt 
receive the following payments in October and November 2019 as Mr Os bank wouldnt 
allow them to collect the direct debit. They wrote to Mr O and he contacted UKI in
November 2019 to make the payments.
In December 2019 UKI were again unable to take payment from Mr Os account. UKI sent 
Mr O a letter on 18 December giving notice the policy would be cancelled by 1January 2020 
unless he made the payment.
Mr O said he received the letter on 31 December and tried to call UKI to make the payment, 
but they were closed. UKI then wrote to Mr O to say the policy was cancelled. As Mr O had 
made a claim on the policy, he had to pay UKI the premium for the whole year.
Mr O felt it was unfair UKI cancelled his policy, he said he wasnt given adequate notice of 
the missed payment in December as set out in the policy. Mr O said he has had to pay 
increased premiums on other insurance policies taken since because hes had to declare 
hes had a policy cancelled. He has also said UKI will not provide him with no claims 
discount confirmation to provide to his new insurer.
UKI said Mr O had been made aware what would happen if he didnt make the payment by 
the deadline given and as he hadnt paid in time, they cancelled his policy.
Our Investigator recommended we uphold Mr Os complaint. He said UKI hadnt followed the 
term in the policy quoted to cancel Mr Os policy  as they didnt give Mr O a window in 
which to make the missed payment before they issued a 14-day notice of cancellation.
To put things right, he recommended UKI remove any cancellation markers from any internal 
and external databases and provide no claims discount confirmation to Mr O. He 
recommended UKI put Mr O back into the financial position he would have been in had the 
policy not cancelled. As Mr O had now taken out a new policy with another provider, he said 
the most pragmatic and straightforward solution was for UKI not to ask for any premium 
beyond 1 January 2020.
He also said UKI should pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
UKI disagreed with our Investigator. They said they cancelled the policy because of
non-payment in line with their non-payment procedure  as Mr O had failed to make 
payments on time on three occasions in three months. UKI said this wouldnt have been 
specifically set out in their policy wording but Mr O was aware he had to pay the premium 
and that the policy could be cancelled for non-payment.
The complaint has now passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI said they cancelled Mr Os policy as Mr O had missed three payments in three months. 
Its not for me to comment on UKIs own internal procedures but if they were applying this 
term, Id reasonably expect them to make it clear to Mr O this was why the policy was being 
cancelled. 
Looking at the wording used when they wrote to Mr O in December 2019 and the letter UKI 
sent to Mr O in January 2020, neither of them mentions anything regarding consecutive 
missed payments as a reason for the cancellation of the policy. 
In the letter sent in January 2020 UKI pointed to a different term, found in the policy booklet, 
as the reasons for cancelling the policy. So, taking everything into account I think this was 
the term relied on when cancelling the policy. What I now need to decide is if UKI applied 
this term fairly.
In the policy, this term says if UKI is unable to collect a payment, they will write to the 
customer to give them an opportunity to make the payment. It goes on to say:
If any instalment amount remain(s) unpaid by the date we set out in our letter, we will give
you 14 days notice that we will cancel your policy and inform you in writing when this 
cancellation has taken place.
UKI wrote to Mr O when his payment didnt come through in December 2019. Their letter 
said the policy would be cancelled if 14 days if they didnt receive payment. So, they didn't 
give Mr O a window in which to make the payment before issuing the 14-day notice of 
cancellation. 
Mr O said he was unable to reach UKI when he called on 31 December 2019. But I can see 
he called on 2 January 2020 to make the payment. Mr O has also provided us with screen 
shots of his bank account which show there was money in his account at the time to make 
the payments. So Im persuaded that if UKI had provided the payment window before issuing 
the 14-day cancellation letter, Mr O wouldve been able to make the payment on 
2 January and his policy wouldnt have been cancelled.  
So I dont think UKI were fair in cancelling Mr Os policy and need to do something to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Mr O has now taken a new policy with another insurer, so they wont need to reinstate
Mr Os policy. UKI should however remove any cancellation markers from any internal and 
external databases. 
UKI has also withheld no claims discount confirmation from Mr O following the cancellation. 
In the circumstances I think its fair UKI now provide this to Mr O so he can let his new 
insurer know what's happened and ask them to recalculate the premium he's paying with the 
no claims discount  and without the cancellation marker. UKI will need to put Mr O back into the financial position he would have been in had the 
policy not been cancelled. That would have been paying the monthly premium up until the 
end of the policy in August 2020. 
My thoughts here are broadly in line with the recommendations made by our investigator. 
After the policy was cancelled, Mr O had to take out temporary insurance and then a new 
policy. After the cancellation marker has been removed, and Mr O is able to provide a no 
claims discount, its likely the cost of the new policy will fall into line with a similar cost to the 
UKI policy. 
Because Mr O made a claim on his UKI policy, they asked him to pay the remainder of the 
premium for the full year. So, I think the most fair and reasonable solution is for UKI not to 
ask for any premium beyond 1 January 2020.
I also think UKI should pay Mr O £100. Mr O said he had to arrange temporary insurance 
policies as it was urgent, he had his car because of personal circumstances. So, taking this 
and the factors above into account I think this amount fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused him. 
My final decision
My final decision I uphold Mr Os complaint.  To put things right UK Insurance Limited 
should:
Remove any cancellation markers regarding Mr Os policy from any internal and 
external databases. 
Provide any relevant no claims discount information to Mr O
Remove any premiums charged beyond 1 January 2020
Pay Mr O £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman