DRN-2175910
The complaint
Ms G says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Ms G bought the policy in 2002 in connection with a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms G says she doesnt remember PPI being discussed when she took out her store 
card, and she thinks it was added without her knowledge or consent. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Ms G and AXA when the 
policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
But I can see that Ms G signed the PPI section of the store card application to show 
that she wanted the cover. So I dont think I can safely say that she wasnt aware of 
the PPI.
Without anything else to support what Ms G has told me, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that buying the policy 
was optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Ms G had to cover 
her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Ms G, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ms 
G says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and in her most recent submission to this service she says 
she had some savings. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Ms Gs employer benefits, and 
wouldve meant she couldve used her sick pay and savings to cover other 
expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her.
 Its possible the information AXA gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms G would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman