DRN-2783414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. They say that 
they havent treated them fairly by not offering them new interest rates and instead, have 
kept them on the standard variable rate (SVR). They say that as a result of this, theyve 
overpaid interest.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out an interest only mortgage with Standard Life in 2007 which was then 
taken over by another lender, then Barclays. The mortgage was for £210,000 with an 
additional £30,000 held available as a retention. The mortgage was taken out over a 15-year 
term. A product fee of £1,499 was added to the loan. The interest rate at the time was a 
variable rate of 7.31% with a 2.12% discount for 2 years making it 5.19%. 
Mr and Mrs W have told us that they have overpaid interest on their mortgage because 
Barclays have kept their mortgage on the SVR and have not offered them any other rates. 
Mr and Mrs W said that they asked to change the interest rate on their mortgage three times, 
in 2009, 2012 and 2015. They said that Barclays told them on each occasion that they were 
not able to do so. 
Mr W said that when he called and spoke to Barclays in 2012, he asked them if he could get 
a payment holiday as he was in-between jobs. He said they refused and offered him one 
month only which he didnt utilise. He said he also asked about reducing the rate on this 
occasion but was told there was nothing else that could be done. Mr and Mrs W said that 
Barclays did not assist them when Mr W was in financial difficulties and could have given 
them a lower rate much earlier on.
Mr and Mrs W said it wasnt until 2019 when they asked again, that a lower rate of interest 
was applied to their mortgage. They said their monthly payments reduced from around 
£1,050 per month to £300 per month. Mr and Mrs W said this caused them financial 
hardship because they were paying too much each month. They said Barclays tried to hide 
the extent of the 2012 discussion.
Mr and Mrs W have said because of this, they have overpaid by around £70,000 on their 
mortgage and would like this amount refunded. They said that Barclays didnt contact them 
to tell them they could reduce their interest rate and didnt reduce it when they asked for one 
previously.  
Barclays said that in 2009, they were not offering any product switches, so there were no 
other rates available for Mr and Mrs W to change their mortgage to. They said that the 
contact notes from 2012 do not reflect a conversation about a product switch, just that Mr 
and Mrs W enquired about a payment holiday. They said that because they took the 
mortgage over from another lender, any payment holiday aspect stopped unless customers 
were already in a payment holiday when their mortgage migrated. They said they couldnt 
offer this unless it was stated in the original mortgage offer. Barclays said that Mr and Mrs W 
were offered a repayment plan at the time, but Mr W declined. 
Barclays said there was no evidence of Mr and Mrs W asking for a rate switch in 2015 and if 
they had asked for one with no additional borrowing, it would have been approved. The only 
reason they wouldnt have got one approved is if they applied for a rate they were not 
eligible for. A product switch happened in 2019 where the mortgage payments were reduced 
from £1049.64 to £298.98.
Mr and Mrs W were not happy with what Barclays had told them, so they brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
said that there were no products available in 2009 and said that in 2012, the conversation 
that was had with Barclays was about a payment holiday. Our investigator also agreed with 
Barclays that there was no evidence of Mr and Mrs W speaking to Barclays about getting a 
lower rate. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with what our investigator had said. They said:
They dont believe we have taken into consideration FCA guidelines  Principe 6  a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
They did request a rate change in 2015 even though Barclays are saying there is no 
record of it
They dont think we have given the file note of 2012 enough scrutiny. The fact 
Barclays said they couldnt do anymore shows that the discussion was also around a 
rate change and not just that of the payment holiday 
Barclays were conning them by charging an additional £700 per month and did not 
treat them fairly
As Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with what the investigator said, they asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer from September 2007 shows that the advice given to Mr and Mrs W 
came from a broker. It was recommended that Mr and Mrs W took out an interest only 
mortgage over a term of 15 years. The mortgage was for £210,000 with an additional 
£30,000 held at retention for future use  if needed. The arrangement fee of £1,499 was also 
added to the loan.
The interest rate at the time was a variable rate of 7.31% with a 2.12% discount for 2 years 
making it 5.19%. 
Interest rate switch enquiry  2009
Mr and Mrs W said they contacted Barclays in 2009 to ask for a lower interest rate but 
Barclays said there were no products available for rate changes. I have looked at the contact 
notes that Barclays have provided. The note dated 24/06/2009 says that Mr W rang to check 
how much his payment would be when he comes off his current discount.  Barclays said 
they gave him a figure and confirmed they do not have any switch products available so Mr 
W could only go on the SVR with them. 
We have asked Barclays for confirmation that they didnt have any products available for Mr 
and Mrs W to switch to in 2009. They said that they cannot provide any specific information 
as the mortgage was with Standard Life at the time, so they are unable to provide any 
evidence, but the notes they do have show that no other products were available. As the 
mortgage was with Standard Life, if there were no products available for Mr and Mrs W to 
switch their mortgage to, then its difficult to hold Barclays liable for that. The contact notes 
from that time do suggest that rates were not available so it wouldnt have been possible for 
Mr and Mrs W to change their mortgage to another interest rate. We also asked Barclays for any telephone calls relating to this. But due to the same reason, 
they do not have any access to the call recordings from this time. This isnt unusual, but as I 
have said, if no other rates were available at the time, then it wouldnt have been possible for 
Mr and Mrs W to move their mortgage on to a lower interest rate. 
Mortgage payment holiday request  2012
Ive looked at the call note dated 30/01/2012. The note says Mr passed by crc  he is in-
between jobs and will struggle for next two months  no payment holiday available and on 
interest only. Advised we could offer a payment arrangement and that if they kept arrears 
less than one down, we would not report to credit reference agency  Mr states he will make 
payments and was disappointed we could not offer anything else  have logged his 
comments on feedback sheet.
Mr W has said that during this call, he also enquired about a rate switch which was 
discussed hence his comment that he was disappointed they couldnt offer anything else. Mr 
and Mrs W have said we havent scrutinised this call note enough and have taken Barclays 
word for it that it was only to do with the payment holiday request. 
We have asked Barclays for the additional feedback sheet where they said they logged his 
comments, to see if there is any other information that hasnt been recorded on the call note. 
Barclays said that the mortgage was still with Standard Life at this time. They have tried to 
access documentation while the mortgage was still with Standard Life, but they have been 
unable to find any documents. They cannot provide any information regarding the comments 
on the feedback sheet. 
Based on the evidence that I do have, it seems that Mr W called to discuss what he could do 
as he was in-between jobs.  So if Mr and Mrs W were asking to change their interest rate at 
this time, its likely that Barclays would have carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment to ensure that based on Mr Ws circumstances at the time, the mortgage was 
still affordable. But there is no evidence to suggest that any such review had taken place or 
that any discussion about interest rates had happened. The call note shows that Mr W called 
to see what options were available to him as he was in-between jobs and states that after a 
discussion was had, Mr W said he would continue making the payments.
Mr and Mrs W said that they were struggling financially and a reduction in their monthly 
payments, would have helped them. They said that once their payments reduced in 2019, 
they realised what an impact this had on them  as they were paying much more.
Ive looked through the contact notes to see what conversations were had around Mr and 
Mrs W struggling financially and other than the call of 2012 where Mr W said he was in-
between jobs, I cannot see that Barclays would have been aware of this. There are no other 
notes that would suggest that Mr and Mrs W were struggling financially.  The reason I 
mention this is because of the fact that Mr and Mrs W were told in 2009 that no other rates 
were available. So based on the call of 2012, we could argue that Barclays should have 
mentioned to Mr and Mrs W that they could have switched to a lower interest rate, because 
they had previously mentioned there were no rates available in 2009. But Barclays were not 
aware that Mr and Mrs W were previously finding things difficult in maintaining their monthly 
payments, especially as the account was up to date  so they wouldnt have had to let Mr 
and Mrs W know that there may have been other products available. And as Mr W called in 
2012 to explain he was in-between jobs, its not necessarily the case that he would have 
been offered one.
So it would have been up to Mr and Mrs W to ask for a new interest rate and unfortunately, I 
cant conclude that Mr and Mrs W did in fact ask for a different interest rate in 2012.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about this, especially as they believe there is 
more information added to the comments sheet about this, but based on what I have seen, and on balance, from the information available to me, I cannot conclude that any other rates 
were asked for in 2012. 
Interest rate switch enquiry  2015
Ive looked through the remaining call notes to see what discussions took place in 2015 with 
regards to a rate switch. There are four notes from 2015. One note is Mr W asking for a 
subject access request, two of the notes are in relation to the subject access request and the 
£10 charge that had to be paid as Mr W had said the cheque was returned. The last call note 
says that Mr W raised a complaint regarding this. 
There is no evidence from the contact notes that Mr and Mrs W enquired about getting a rate 
switch in 2015. We have asked Barclays to send their telephone call records for 2015 so that 
we can see if there have been any discussions surrounding this. Barclays have checked this 
a couple of times for us as we have asked them for this information before. But they are 
unable to find any call recordings for this period. The contact notes that I have been provided 
with dont show that Mr or Mrs W called to discuss alternative interest rates. I appreciate that 
Mr W said he asked for one, but the evidence suggests otherwise which on balance, is more 
persuasive. I say this because at the time, there were rates available that Mr and Mrs W 
could have switched their mortgage to.  So, if Mr and Mrs W had asked for a change in their 
interest rate, I cant see any reason why Barclays wouldnt have started a new application 
for them to do this, or at least provided them with information on how they could have gone 
about doing that. There is nothing to suggest, from what I have seen, that Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have been successful had they applied. 
Interest rate switch  2019
There is a contact note dated 09/10/2019 where Barclays received a call from Mr W as he 
was dissatisfied that he was on a higher rate and he was put through to someone else to 
discuss better rates. Mr and Mrs W said that Mr W was told he was paying too much each 
month and its after this call that Mr and Mrs W had their interest rate reduced which lowered 
their monthly payments. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have said this should have been 
done much sooner. But as I have already explained, I cannot see that Mr and Mrs W have 
specifically asked for new interest rates other than in 2009, where no other rates were 
available, and in 2019, when their interest rate was reduced. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W have said they could have benefitted from lower monthly 
payments sooner which would have put them in a better position, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays havent done anything wrong. The original mortgage was taken out with Standard 
Life and Barclays have honoured the terms and conditions of that mortgage so I cannot say 
that they have acted unfairly. The mortgage has operated as per these terms and conditions 
and annual statements would have been sent out explaining the balance of the mortgage 
along with the interest rate and interest charged. Mr and Mrs W would have been able to 
contact Barclays at any time to discuss alternative rates, and while I understand they said 
they did this, I have nothing to suggest, based on the evidence I have seen, that this was the 
case. 
It wasnt generally normal practice for lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers letting them 
know that lower interest rates may have been available to them. Lenders do contact 
borrowers when they have a rate coming to an end in order for a borrower to decide on next 
steps, but Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was on the SVR and it was a lifetime rate, so this 
wouldnt have happened. And this rate was applied initially when the mortgage was taken 
out.
I have also seen a copy of a letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs W, dated 14 August 2016. 
This letter is a revised payment notice which confirms what Mr and Mrs Ws new contractual 
monthly payment would be.  The letter confirms that the interest was changing to 4.74% 
(SVR) with effect from 1 September 2016. This letter also invites Mr and Mrs W to check 
Barclays website for any other interest rates that may be available, and also offers a telephone number should they wish to discuss new rates. From the contact notes provided, I 
cannot see that Mr and Mrs W contacted Barclays to discuss any new rates during this time. 
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs W, but under the circumstances, I 
cannot say that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman