DRN-1795444
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled his claim 
under his building insurance policy for damage caused by an escape of water. He complains 
that RSAs cash settlement offer is inadequate. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim for damage caused to his shower room and other parts of his home by 
an escape of water. RSA accepted his claim and appointed contractors to manage the 
quotes for repair. However, Mr H was unhappy with the level of service provided. He 
complained that RSA missed things out of the scope of works and caused avoidable delays 
to the claim. Because of this, Mr H asked for a cash settlement so he could arrange for the 
work to be done. He complained that RSA provided inadequate settlement offers. 
Mr H agreed with RSA that he would arrange for the work to be done to his downstairs 
shower room. He explained that he had difficulty using the stairs and he needed use of his 
shower room. He said the cost of the repair was more than that offered by RSA as a cash 
settlement, but it rejected his claim for payment of the full amount. 
To resolve this matter, Mr H is willing to accept the cash settlement offered by RSA for all 
other repairs, but he would like RSA to cover the full cost of repairs to his shower room and 
to provide compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused by its delays.
RSA accepted that its service hadnt been satisfactory because its contractors failed to 
return calls, provide updates, or give consistent information. It felt the cash settlement offer 
was appropriate because it was decided in line with the policy wording that cash settlements 
wont normally be more than the repair wouldve cost using its own contractors. RSA didnt 
increase the cash settlement offer so Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill be asking RSA to pay the full cost of repairs to the 
shower room but I wont be asking it to pay more compensation. Ill explain why. 
For clarity, I must point out that since bringing his complaint to our service, Mr H asked for 
and received from RSA an interim payment of £6,000. I welcome RSAs decision to make 
this interim payment. Because the majority of the cash settlement wasnt in dispute, this 
doesnt affect the facts of the case or my decision.
In reaching my decision Ive looked at what RSA did; what it shouldve done, and whether Mr 
H lost out.RSA accepted Mr Hs claim under his buildings policy and its contractors quoted for the 
repairs needed. Both parties agree that the quotes didnt include all work and that Mr H 
experienced delays and poor service during the claims process. So RSA didnt do what it 
shouldve done. 
The work needed was considerable and some delays could reasonably be expected. But its 
clear from the accounts provided by both RSA and Mr H that the claim didnt progress as it 
shouldve done for the first few months. This is because RSAs contractors didnt follow up 
on calls with Mr H or prepare full work quotes to allow for a satisfactory settlement offer. If 
the work had been costed correctly from the start then its likely this matter couldve been 
settled much sooner.
RSAs delays and failure to fully cost the work from the outset caused Mr H to lose out. This 
is because he couldve expected the work to be costed and completed within a reasonable 
timescale. I understand why Mr H became frustrated with the process and decided to 
arrange some of the work himself. He consulted with RSA first and it agreed to settle the 
claim by cash rather than have its contractors complete the repairs. The only part of the cash 
settlement under dispute is for the work done to the shower room.
Because of his personal circumstances, Mr H needed the shower room repaired quickly. He 
paid for the work but RSAs contractors had costed the repair at less than half what Mr H 
paid. RSA rejected Mr Hs claim for the full amount in line with the policy wording:
Preferred Suppliers
Where we can, we offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but [if], on 
request, we agree to pay you a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the 
amount we would have paid our preferred supplier.
While I accept that RSA has adhered to the policy wording, I dont think its fair in the 
circumstances. If RSA had completed the repairs within a reasonable timescale, the cost to it 
wouldve been the amount its now offering as a cash settlement. And Mr Hs shower room 
wouldve been repaired so he wouldnt have lost out. I think that wouldve been fair.
However, because RSA didnt complete the repairs due to its own shortfalls in service, Mr H 
eventually asked to settle in cash instead. If he had asked for cash from the outset I think it 
wouldve been fair for RSA to offer him the amount it already has because that is what it 
wouldve cost RSA to put matters right. But Mr H only asked for settlement in cash because 
he felt he had no other option. He needed a downstairs shower room for health reasons and 
I can understand that RSAs delays meant he experienced day to day difficulty. So I think 
RSA shouldve made a cash offer as if it had offered to settle the claim by cash instead of 
repairs from the outset.
When an insurer decides to make a cash offer rather than repairs I would expect it to be 
enough to put the policyholder back in the same position as before. RSAs offer to Mr H is 
less than he paid for his shower room repairs, so he has lost out. And Im satisfied that he 
has lost out as a direct result of RSAs delays in handling the claim. On page 14 of the policy 
booklet, RSA states:
At our option we will make a cash settlement but we will not pay more than it would have 
cost us to repair the damage to your buildings if the repair work had been carried out without 
delay.The repair work wasnt carried out without delay so I dont think its reasonable for RSA to 
rely on the policy wording limiting its liability for the cash settlement. I think its fair for RSA to 
pay the full cost of Mr Hs shower room repairs. 
By paying for the full cost of repairs, RSA will have put Mr H back in the position he was in 
before. However, that alone doesnt adequately address the inconvenience and upset 
caused by its service shortfalls when handling his claim. I am satisfied that a compensation 
payment of £300 is warranted by way of apology for the inconvenience and upset caused 
during what was already a difficult time for Mr H.
Finally, I dont think its fair to ask Mr H to persevere with RSA for any remaining repairs. He 
has already received an interim payment and I think at this stage its reasonable to settle the 
remainder of the claim as a cash payment.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require RSA to:
pay the full cost of Mr Hs shower room repairs;
settle the remainder of Mr Hs claim as a cash settlement, less any already paid 
towards it by the interim payment, and
pay £300 compensation by way of apology for the delays in handling his claim and 
for the inconvenience and upset caused.
 
Mr H responded to say that he felt the compensation was unrealistic given the duration of 
loss of his shower room, the lack of detail in RSAs proposed settlement, and his physical 
restrictions. He also believed that RSA used counter proposals as a tactic because it knew 
penalties wouldnt be applied. 
RSA responded to say that it didnt think paying for the full costs of the shower would be 
appropriate because it goes beyond the limit of its liability under the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important for me to explain that my role isnt to penalise companies. My role is to 
try to put Mr H back in the position he wouldve been in had the matter not happened. As 
that isnt possible here, Ive decided RSA should pay compensation by way of an apology for 
the shortfalls Mr H described. While he doesnt think £300 is sufficient in this day and age, 
Im satisfied that its a fair amount and in keeping with the type of award made for similar 
complaints that we have seen. I see no reason to increase the compensation.
I understand that the policy says RSA will limit any cash settlement to what it wouldve cost it 
to complete the repairs. Ordinarily that would be a reasonable outcome. However, Mr H 
asked for a cash settlement only after a significant delay and, in the circumstances, I dont 
think it would be fair for him to lose out because of RSAs delays. So I think its reasonable 
for RSA to pay for the full cost of the shower room repair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
pay the full cost of Mr Hs shower room repairs;settle the remainder of Mr Hs claim as a cash settlement, less any already paid 
towards it by the interim payment, and
pay £300 compensation by way of apology for the delays in handling his claim and 
for the inconvenience and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman