DRN-3660228
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) refused to pay for any losses beyond 4 July 2020 under its business interruption 
insurance claim. 
Mr S, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf. 
What happened
S is a retailer whose business tends to be seasonal. S held business interruption insurance 
with RSA for the period 16 September 2019 to 15 September 2020. This is the policy being 
considered in this decision. 
S claimed on its policy in September 2020 after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and 
the Governments response to the pandemic. RSA ultimately accepted Ss claim under the 
clause for disease. RSA accepted the claim because it thought S had shown Covid-19 
manifested at its premises prior to the requirement for its business to close. RSA said that 
this case of Covid-19 was one of the cases which contributed to the Governments decision 
to require S and other businesses to close from 23 March 2020. RSA said it considered that 
the first lockdown from 23 March until 4 July was one event and unless S could show that it 
experienced losses due to a separate restriction, Ss policy did not provide cover after 4 July.  
Unhappy with RSAs response, S brought its complaint to our service. S didnt think that 
RSA had correctly interpreted the policy definition of the indemnity period which is:
The period beginning when the Damage occurs, ending when the results of the 
Business cease to be affected by the Damage, but not exceeding the Maximum 
Indemnity Period (as shown in the Schedule).
S said that RSA had agreed that the indemnity start date was 19 March 2020 and therefore 
the indemnity should continue for either the 24 months set out within the Schedule as the 
Maximum Indemnity Period, or when the results of its business ceased to be impacted by 
the pandemic. 
S said RSA was trying to rewrite the definition to say what it intended, rather than how it was 
written. S said that the policy should be interpreted as it would by a reasonable person.
S provided evidence to show that its profit had been adversely impacted for many months 
after it had been able to reopen on 4 July and said this demonstrated that the results of its 
business had not ceased to be affected by the damage when it reopened in July. Therefore, 
it thought RSA should honour the £250,000 limit set out within the policy. 
S also thought that an additional £250,000 of cover was available under the clause for denial 
of access. S said that the Supreme Court in the Financial Conduct Authority test case said 
that damage didnt need to have occurred to property as damage should be read as referring 
to the insured peril. 
Our Investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld because he 
didnt think that the loss S experienced after 4 July was as a result of the case of Covid-19 at 
its premises which a contributing cause towards the Governments restrictions in March. 
Therefore, he thought RSA had acted reasonably in how it had resolved Ss claim. 
S didnt accept our Investigators view and provided a detailed response. In summary, S said 
the policy is clear and unambiguous and hadnt been interpreted as it would by a reasonable 
person. S said the seasonal nature of its business meant that its income didnt return to 
normal as soon as it reopened, and it wasnt able to get its profit back to normal in either the 
short or medium term. S said there wasnt anything in the policy which said the indemnity 
period ended when it could start trading. 
S said that the wording ending when the results of the business cease to be affected by the 
Damage essentially means when Ss profitability returns to pre damage levels when 
comparing like for like time periods. S said that if RSA didnt honour the wording in the 
policy then it must have misrepresented the cover available and breached the contract 
between the parties. 
S asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Covid-19 and the pandemic on Ss business. However, 
Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why and in doing so will focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues. 
When S brought its complaint to us it also complained about RSA not providing cover under 
the extension for denial of access. It has since told us it does not wish to pursue that part of 
its complaint at this time. So I am not going to comment on that clause any further. This 
decision focuses on the period of cover under the disease clause. 
The relevant part of the disease clause says:
Loss as a result of
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a 
notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the Premises
As set out above, the definition of indemnity period for the business interruption insurance 
section of the policy is:
The period beginning when the Damage occurs, ending when the results of the 
Business cease to be affected by the Damage, but not exceeding the Maximum 
Indemnity Period (as shown in the Schedule).
The Policy Schedule says that the maximum indemnity period is 24 months. 
As S says, the starting point for interpreting a contract is to consider what a reasonable 
person with the relevant information available to them would have believed when entering 
into the contract. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that, in the context of the indemnity period, the reference to Damage means the insured event. In this case, that event is the closure or restrictions 
placed on Ss premises as a result of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Ss premises  i.e. the 
case of Covid-19 which manifested at Ss premises and contributed to the Governments 
decision to impose restrictions on Ss premises. Cover is provided for losses suffered by S 
resulting from those restrictions. 
Therefore, I consider that the indemnity period ends when the results of Ss business cease 
to be affected by the restrictions placed on the premises as a result of the case of Covid-19 
which manifested at Ss premises. 
I believe that when the Government lifted the restrictions at the end of the first lockdown and 
S was allowed to reopen any subsequent losses suffered by S could not be attributed to the 
restrictions placed on Ss premises as a result of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises.
I say that because the policy covers loss as a result of Covid-19 manifesting at Ss premises; 
it doesnt cover Covid-19 in general. I dont think that Covid-19 is a single insured event 
under the policy, rather its the restrictions put in place due to the case which manifests at 
the insured premises. The Government restrictions were reviewed and changed over time 
and the March restrictions were subsequently eased. Therefore, I believe the impact of the 
restrictions resulting from the case of Covid-19 at Ss premises ended when the restrictions 
were lifted. For this reason, I dont think the cases of Covid-19 from March which resulted in 
the insured event were the continuing cause of Ss loss beyond the end of the first lockdown. 
I have taken into account the seasonal nature of Ss business and RSA has agreed to pay 
Ss claim for the period in which it would ordinarily make much of its revenue. However, 
while the annual results of Ss business remained below what it would normally expect, for 
the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that this was because of the manifestation 
of Covid-19 at Ss premises which led to the Government restrictions. 
Having carefully considered the wording of Ss policy and the circumstances of this case, I 
believe that RSAs interpretation is in line with how a reasonable policyholder with the 
relevant background knowledge would interpret this policy and therefore Im not going to 
require RSA to pay S for its losses beyond 4 July 2020. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman