DRN-3799987
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a personal loan Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to him. He 
says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Lendable provided Mr W with a loan for £3,000.00 in January 2022. This loan had an APR of 
37.19% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,046.78, including interest, fees and charges of £3,046.78, was due to be repaid in 59 
monthly instalments of £100.85 and a final instalment of £96.63. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and she that Lendable ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr W with his loan. So she thought that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Lendable has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks before   
Mr Ws loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr W already had a significant 
amount of existing debt and had taken out other loans in the leadup to this application.
Furthermore, while Lendable says it verified Mr Ws income with the credit reference agency 
at best all this was doing was looking at how much was going in and out of his account. I 
dont think that this is the same as verifying Mr Ws income. And I think that it was necessary 
to do so in this instance give the rapid increase in Mr Ws borrowing over a short period of 
time.
Im also concerned that Lendable appears to have estimated Mr Ws non-credit related living 
expenditure. And Lendable appears to have relied on the use of data to calculate this 
despite the fact that Mr Ws increasing debt burden suggested that he didnt fit the profile of 
the average borrower. 
I think that if Lendable had looked further into Mr Ws circumstances, it would have seen that 
he was earning substantially less that what it believed. And when Mr Ws actual expenditure 
is deducted from his actual income, it is apparent that he was struggling to manage his 
existing debts. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr W has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ws financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Lendable, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ws version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ws existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Lendable that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr W. As Lendable 
provided Mr W with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr W is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been 
provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what Lendable 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lendable needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Loans should put things right for Mr W by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ws loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr W made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£3,000.00 originally lent.
 
if once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr W has made 
overpayments on his loan, these overpayments should also be refunded to Mr W 
together with interest at 8% simple a year from the date they were made by Mr W to 
the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made to Mr Ws 
loan then all adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of this loan 
should also be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Lendable Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman