DRN-3997233
The complaint
Mr A complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans overcharged 
him interest.
What happened
Mr A says he was charged interest on top of interest by Likely Loans. He says he made 
overpayments on his loan account but was charged an incorrect interest amount. Mr A would 
like the interest he overpaid refunded.
Likely Loans says the loan was taken out in May 2022 and Mr A made an overpayment on 
30 November 2022 of £500. It says that reduced the amount owed and it made an interest 
rebate to Mr A. Likely Loans says it told Mr A in the terms and conditions that any 
overpayments had to be authorised by it, but he made further overpayments in December 
2022. It says Mr A has now repaid the loan and it applied the additional payments when told 
about them.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Likely Loans had told Mr A he needed to contact it before making any 
further overpayments and that it had explained how the interest was calculated.
Mr A doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr A that we are not an auditing service. So, its not our role to check interest 
calculations in detail but I cant see any mistakes made in Likely Loans calculations.
Im satisfied that Mr A took out the loan in May 2022 and would have agreed to the account 
terms and conditions. One of those terms and conditions says that a customer must give 
Likely Loans notice of any partial settlement payments. I have listened to the telephone call 
between the parties when Mr A did just that and made a partial settlement payment of £500. 
Im also satisfied that Likely Loans used that payment as intended by Mr A and refunded him 
interest as a result. I am sure Mr A appreciates that interest calculations in these 
circumstances is not straightforward or an easy calculation as it depends on a number of 
variable factors.
During the call Likely Loans made clear to Mr A that he needed to call it back to make any 
other payments as its systems needed to update Mr As account. But Im satisfied Mr A 
didnt call Likely Loans back but made two further payments to it without telling it what they 
were for. So, it follows that I dont think Likely Loans made a mistake or acted unfairly by not 
immediately applying those payments until Mr A told it what they were for. I find it was Mr As 
choice to make the payments and not telling Likely Loans in advance, as he was required to 
under the account terms and conditions and told during the call.
In any event I can see Mr A repaid the loan in December 2022 and I have made clear that I 
have not seen any evidence that Likely Loans made a mistake or charged Mr A an incorrect 
interest amount. I have also not seen evidence that Likely Loans has charged interest on 
interest as Mr A suggests or that it is clear what that means in the circumstances of this 
complaint. This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can 
do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman