DRN-3754499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a claim 
regarding damage to their home caused by a fire, under their home buildings insurance 
policy. 
Mrs N is representing Mr and Mrs C in their complaint. 
What happened
In July 2018 a fire spread from a neighbouring property to Mr and Mrs Cs roof. It caused 
considerable damage to their property and so they made a claim to Aviva. Their claim was 
accepted, and alternative accommodation was arranged for Mr and Mrs C as their property 
was uninhabitable. 
Mr and Mrs C appointed their own loss assessor to manage and handle the claim on their 
behalf. Some emergency repairs were carried out and a surveyor was appointed to submit a 
schedule of the repairs needed due to the fire. The work was then tendered out to 
contractors. 
Mr and Mrs C say it took longer than expected to carry out the repairs. They refer to 
inadequate emergency repairs over the damaged area of roof, which allowed rainwater to 
enter the house. They also say a temporary, tin roof wasnt installed until sometime later, 
which could have prevented some of the further damage that occurred internally. They are 
also dissatisfied with the quality of the repairs in numerous areas.
Mrs N says that Avivas loss adjustor was rude toward Mr and Mrs C as well as the loss 
assessor they had appointed. She points to inadequate loft insulation that was laid. And 
when Avivas contractors cleaned the windows the chemicals used caused breathing 
difficulties for Mr and Mrs C.  
Mrs N says items werent stored correctly by Aviva. Some were left damp and not cleaned 
which resulted in mould developing.
Aviva responded to four complaints ranging between April 2019 and August 2021 that were 
raised on behalf of Mr and Mrs C. In April 2019 it acknowledged delays in arranging 
appointments to agree a way forward for their claim. Also, that no funds had been paid 
toward their contents claim. Aviva paid £200 compensation to acknowledge these failings. It 
subsequently paid £250 compensation for communication issues in July 2019. 
Aviva apologised for a delayed interim payment in September 2020. In August 2021 it 
apologised that its loss adjustor hadnt shown the level of sympathy expected. But it 
confirmed he was experienced and qualified to perform his role. Aviva also apologised for a 
miscommunication when the hotel Mr and Mrs C were staying at didnt know their continuing 
stay had been authorised. 
Aviva says its loss adjustor followed its accepted procedure regarding the tendering of work 
and when validating additional work and costs. It says this was necessary to ensure the work 
was to a good standard, on time and at a reasonable cost. 
The business says the contractor it appointed to restore the windows is suitably qualified and 
experienced. It says he didnt mix chemicals but used an, off the shelf form of polish. It 
acknowledges that response timescales couldve been better, and communication could also 
have been improved upon. To acknowledge this, it offered a further £350 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was a fair outcome and referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She says the loss assessor Mr and Mrs C 
appointed was responsible for the handling of the repairs. So, she didnt think Aviva was 
responsible for the quality issues or progress of the work. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly in agreeing to replace some of the items that 
it had arranged to be stored. This was inclusive of white goods, a sofa, and dining room 
chairs. She thought it was reasonable that the remaining items were cleaned, although she 
didnt think all damage reported by Mrs N had resulted from the fire. Our investigator 
concluded the £800 compensation already paid to Mr and Mrs C by Aviva was fair and didnt 
think there was evidence to support a further payment. 
Mrs N responded on behalf of Mr and Mrs C to express dissatisfaction with this outcome and 
ask for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
them but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Were not able to look at every complaint brought to us. The DISP rules determine the 
timeframes in which a complaint must be brought to our service. Given the first complaint 
was responded to by Aviva in 2019, this would suggest it was brought too late. But Aviva has 
given its consent for us to consider all of the issues Mr and Mrs C raised since first 
registering their claim. So, I can consider the issues raised from 2018 onwards.
I can see Mr and Mrs C appointed a loss assessor to handle their claim for them. I will refer 
to this company as B. This means that B were responsible for arranging the repairs, the 
quality of the work and for the time taken to progress the claim. Our investigator explained 
that this complaint is about Aviva and its role in handling the claim. We cant consider those 
issues B is responsible for. 
However, I can consider Avivas role and whether it has caused any delays in its interactions 
with B, which is one of the issues Mrs N has raised. 
Loss adjustors manner
Mrs N says that when Avivas loss adjustor met with Mr and Mrs C and their loss assessor, 
he didnt introduce himself or greet them cordially. She says he glared at the loss 
assessor and said, I hope you know that were not paying for their services.
Ive read Avivas complaint response from August 2021. It comments that its loss adjustor is, 
educated and qualified for this task and has considerable experience in doing so. It acknowledges the accusation that his manner had been, cold and hostile. It then says that 
unfortunately even though the fire had been traumatic and upsetting, it was important for Mr 
and Mrs C to be aware that if they chose to appoint their own loss assessor this would be at 
their own cost. 
Aviva concluded its response on this point by apologising to Mr and Mrs C that they didnt 
feel its loss adjustor had showed sufficient sympathy towards them.
Ive read all the claim notes and records provided by Aviva as well as considering the 
account provided by Mrs N of the conversations that took place. I have no reason to doubt 
the recollection of what was said or the manner in which it was communicated. Its 
reasonable to expect that all communication, whether in person or in writing, should be 
conducted cordially. Based on what Ive read, the indication is that the loss adjustor didnt 
behave appropriately on this occasion. I can understand why Mr and Mrs C were upset by 
this. They decided to appoint their own loss assessor, which was their prerogative.  I dont 
think this gave reason for Avivas loss adjustor to behave in the way described. 
I think its fair that Aviva offered an apology and compensation in light of this. 
Windows  
Mrs N describes how Mr C had to leave the building because of the fumes created when 
Avivas contractor attempted to clean the fire damaged windows. She says Mrs C also 
experienced a coughing fit as a result of the cleaning. Mrs N is concerned that chemicals 
were mixed together and questions whether a health a safety assessment was carried out 
prior to this work. 
Avivas response says its contractor is qualified and experienced in this role. It refers to all its 
employees that are trained to Institute of Inspection Cleaning and Restoration Certification 
(IICRC) standards. Also, that the manager in charge of Mr and Mrs Cs claim has National 
Examination Board in Occupation Safety and Health (NEBOSH) certification. It says the 
products used by its contractor are also Control of Substances Hazardous to Health 
(COSHH) assessed on a yearly basis. 
I can see Avivas contractor completed a form at the time the cleaning took place. This says 
that the cleaning was unsuccessful due to pre-loss scratches that had soot deeply in-
bedded. It also says this cleaning product is regularly used without the problems 
experienced by Mr and Mrs C. The work was abandoned when it was realised it wasnt 
proving effective and due to the impact it was having on Mr and Mrs C. 
Im sorry the fumes from the cleaning product impacted Mr and Mrs C in the way they did. I 
can understand that this must have been upsetting for them. But I cant see that Avivas 
contractor behaved inappropriately when attempting to clean the soot damaged windows. 
From the records provided, the contractor is qualified to undertake this work, and the 
appropriate health and safety standards were observed. There is no evidence that chemicals 
were mixed inappropriately. When the impact on Mr and Mrs C was noticed the work was 
stopped. Based on this I think Avivas contractor behaved reasonably. 
Delays in Aviva responding to the loss assessor  
Mrs N says that Avivas loss adjustor took weeks to respond to Mr and Mrs Cs appointed 
loss assessor. Shes concerned about the relationship he had with the loss assessor and the 
impact this had on the claim.
I can see that a complaint was raised with Aviva about it failing to make appointments necessary to the claim. In addition, further concerns were raised relating to delayed 
payments and communication from Avivas loss adjustor.     
In its complaint responses Aviva says the loss assessor wasnt in agreement with its process 
for comparing tenders. It says the approach its loss adjustor took was to compare any 
costings and scope of works against that provided by its own network of contractors. It says 
this is a usual and prudent approach. And any slight delay in allowing for this procedure is 
justified. 
I can see that Aviva says at no stage did its loss adjustor refuse to liaise with Mr and Mrs Cs 
loss assessor. Communication took place as necessary and was generally timely and 
appropriate. It says its loss adjustor was required to ensure the additions and adjustments to 
the scheduled work, proposed by the loss assessor, were monitored, and agreed. It says this 
is normal practice. Aviva refers to the repairs taking place during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
which did unfortunately result in some delays to the handling of the claim. 
Ive read the emails and records provided by Aviva along with the testimony provided by Mrs 
N to understand what happened here. I can see there were many exchanges between 
Avivas loss adjustor and Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor during the claim. This includes 
requests for payment. I can see the loss assessor felt an interim payment was due, which 
the loss adjustor disagreed with. He felt a final payment could be provided without need for 
an interim. 
I note the complaint made to Aviva in July 2019 concerned communication issues with the 
loss adjustor. This resulted in a compensation payment for £250 and an apology. The 
complaint in September 2020 included concerns about a delayed interim payment. An 
apology was provided, and it was confirmed that the matter had been resolved.
Having considered this information, I think there probably were some occasions where 
communication and payments couldve been provided more quickly. But I take Avivas point 
that there was a need for the work and costings to be validated throughout the handling of 
the claim. In the circumstances I think it was appropriate that Aviva provided the apologies it 
did and compensated Mr and Mrs C in relation to these issues. But I havent seen reason to 
require further action or to award more compensation.
Storage of contents
Mrs N has provided a large number of photos showing contents from Mr and Mrs Cs home 
that were stored offsite after the fire. These show white goods that are dirty and where 
mould has developed in places. There are also other items that have stains and some 
moulding, including chair seats and clothing. Mrs N also refers to a tv stand that was 
damaged, along with a drying stand for clothes and a commemorative metal tray. 
In addition she highlights a magazine rack that has some damage, a broken picture frame, a 
stained pillow, a clock with a battery that has leaked acid, a broken dish, a number of items 
of clothing with some mould and stains, as well as some food items that are now passed 
their best before date amongst some other items. 
Mrs N also highlights a box of encyclopaedias that were stored with other items on top. 
These werent damaged but she points to the lack of care used when storing these items. 
From the records it was agreed that the fridge, freezer and washing machine, along with a 
sofa and dining room chairs should be replaced. Remaining items of furniture were able to 
be cleaned, and this was arranged by Avivas contractor. From the photos Mrs N supplied, I dont think that the dirt and staining on the items that were 
replaced look to have resulted from the fire. There are areas of mould on some of some of 
the contents that Mrs N has highlighted. I acknowledge her view that this has possibly 
developed due to the items being stored damp, following the fire brigades use of water to 
put out the fire.
I can see from the emails exchanged between Aviva and Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor that 
it was discussed that they wanted to view the laundry items in storage to make a decision as 
to whether they should be retained or disposed of, given their soiled state.
Ive thought carefully about whether Avivas handling and storing of the contents of Mr and 
Mrs Cs home was done appropriately. From the photos there was a considerable amount of 
contents stored in over a hundred bags. I understand it must have been upsetting for them to 
see their possessions in this state. However, some items of considerable value including the 
white goods, sofa and chairs have been replaced. I cant see that the staining and damage 
identified with these items was related to the fire. So, I think Avivas decision to replace 
these items was reasonable.  
I cant be sure that the damage Mrs N has referred to, involving several of the household 
items was caused by Avivas contractor. Overall, I think it acted fairly in replacing the items it 
did, which I think more than covers the cost of the smaller items that may have developed 
mould whilst in storage.  
Accommodation
Mrs N says Mr and Mrs C were distressed when they understood that were going to be 
kicked out of the hotel accommodation that had been arranged by Aviva. This was prior to 
the repairs being completed. 
Aviva says it did authorise payment for Mr and Mrs Cs accommodation. In its complaint 
response from August 2021 it says the contractor appointed to arrange accommodation 
gave authorisation to the hotel - but the hotel had, failed to pick this up. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C were distressed when they thought they would be left 
without accommodation. This must have been upsetting for them. I understand the 
miscommunication was resolved the same day as the issue arose, and Mr and Mrs C were 
able to remain as guests at the hotel. Im glad this was able to be resolved quickly.
Having considered all of this I think its probable that communication couldve been of better 
standard between Avivas loss adjustor and Mr and Mrs Cs appointed loss assessor. 
Including the manner in which he initially behaved. 
I dont think its been shown that Avivas contractor behaved inappropriately when attempting 
to restore the condition of the windows, as a result of the soot damage. I also think Aviva 
behaved fairly in agreeing to replace items that werent damaged in the fire. Aviva has 
apologised and offered £800 compensation for the issues it identified with its handling of this 
claim. I think this is fair based on the information Ive seen. 
In summary, I dont think Aviva treated Mr and Mrs C fairly in some aspects of its claim 
handling. But I think its apology and £800 compensation is reasonable. So, I cant fairly ask it 
to do anymore to resolve their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman