DRN-4320182
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) caused significant delay in giving him 
access to, and in returning, his funds after a courts Asset Freezing Order (AFO) had been 
set-aside. Mr H says this has caused him substantive financial loss, distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
In February 2021, a UK court issued an AFO instructing Barclays to seize and hold in one of 
its sundry accounts, around £8,100 from Mr Hs current account, and around £140,000 from 
his savings account. 
Mr H appointed and instructed solicitors to help him with regaining his funds and dealing with 
the relevant government authority who were investigating the matter  HMRC. Mr Hs legal 
representatives corresponded with Barclays and said that it had been informed by HMRC on 
23 February 2022 that the court order had been set-aside. 
The solicitors also said in this correspondence that Barclays had written to it on 
23 March 2022 to confirm the funds amounting to around £148,100 were returned to Mr Hs 
account.
Mr H says he wasnt told that his funds had been returned to his accounts in this way. And 
only realised when his statement, sent to him in late April 2022, showed this. 
Barclays say it received confirmation the AFO had been set-aside on 23 March 2022 after 
which it returned the funds to Mr Hs accounts. Mr Hs solicitors have sent an email which 
shows Barclays team that handles court orders sent them an email on this date explaining 
the funds had been returned, and that an email has also been sent to Mr H to confirm this. 
On 28 April 2022, Barclays removed Mr Hs funds from his accounts and placed them back 
into one of its sundry accounts. Barclays say it did this as it intended to close Mr Hs 
accounts at that point, but this wasnt processed correctly.  
Mr H made several calls, and says he visited a Barclays branch in the UK to recover his 
funds. But Barclays were unable to locate them or give any meaningful updates.  
Unhappy with the poor customer service, and as he was unable to get access to his funds, 
Mr H complained in May 2022 to Barclays. 
In June 2022, in response to its email, Barclays team that handles court orders informed 
Mr Hs solicitors that he would need to go not one of its branches with ID and a bank card for 
the account he wants the funds transferred to. In July 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr H and 
informed him it had decided to close his accounts with immediate effect.  
On 1 August 2022, in response to its email, Barclays court orders team once again informed 
Mr Hs legal representatives that he would need to go not one of its branches with ID and a 
bank card for where he wants the funds transferred to.
Following several letters that it was still looking into the matter, Barclays sent Mr H its final 
response in August 2022. In summary, it said: 
- Barclays level of service has not been acceptable
- The funds have now been made available to Mr H, and Barclays offered Mr H £100 
for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused him 
Mr H was still unable to access his funds, so he complained again to Barclays. In its final 
response in November 2022, Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaint. In summary, Barclays said: 
- Its sorry Mr H has had to complain about his funds which are being held in one of its 
sundry accounts
- It can see from its internal notes Mr H has been attempting to withdraw them for quite 
a while. Mr H will be pleased to know that details of the sundry account have now 
been located
- As Mr H is abroad, he has two options to withdraw the funds. He can either visit a 
Barclays branch the next time he is in the UK with two forms of ID. Or he could email 
Barclays with a covering letter explaining why he is sending an email and give bank 
account details for where the funds can be transferred. If Mr H chooses the latter 
option, he will also need to send two forms of certified ID 
Mr H was issued a cheque by Barclays on 25 November 2022 which he deposited into 
another external UK bank account. The funds remain there. Unhappy with Barclays actions, 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr H explained that: 
- He called Barclays around 20 times from October 2021 up until January 2022 to find 
out where his funds were. He was promised that someone would find out and call 
him back, but this never materialised
- On 14 April 2022, he received a Barclays statement showing his funds had been 
returned. He went to a branch a few days later and was told the account held no 
funds. He was told that the Head Office had taken the funds and werent able to 
locate them  
- Later, on 12 September 2022, after being told in August 2022 by Barclays Court 
Order team he could retrieve his funds, the branch told him they couldnt locate his 
funds. He says the Head Office had lost the funds and are trying to locate them. Mr H 
says he was told he could send Barclays a letter setting out the bank details of where 
he wants his money transferred to
- His legal fees to get his funds returned by HMRC cost him £40,000 and he had to 
pay £7,000 for an expert witness required by a UK court 
- Given the country hes living in, he needed to convert his funds in sterling to US 
dollars. The exchange rate fell by 11% from when he shouldve been given the funds 
back in February 2022 until he was in November 2022. This represents a loss of 
around £16,293
- He had to buy business class tickets to travel to the UK, costing him £16,000 to deal 
with the matter - Barclays should compensate Mr Hs losses by paying him £79,293  
- This matter has impacted his mental health given how long it has taken to retrieve his 
funds 
- Mr H told Barclays he needed this money as he has started to borrow from friends 
and family for living costs 
Mr Hs complaint was then allocated to one of our Investigators. Mr H appointed someone to 
represent him. To keep matters simple, Ill continue to refer to Mr H in my decision. 
In addition to previously made points, in summary Mr H explained: 
- £200 compensation as offered by Barclays wasnt sufficient
- He didnt see a doctor about his mental health
- He no longer has copies of the airfare tickets
- He flew to the UK despite being told he could email Barclays because he was told a 
notary was required and that wouldve taken two weeks. So to speed things up he 
came to the UK 
- Mr H hasnt been a resident of the UK since 2005 and he needed the funds released 
to repay a personal loan he had taken out in his current country of residence
- He had to take out a personal loan of USD 200,000 from a family friend to avoid court 
action  
- Mr H hasnt transferred the funds from his UK account till date because of the low 
USD/Sterling exchange rate
Mr H also sent in further information to support his claims that Barclays actions had caused 
him financial loss. This included: 
- Translated documents relating to a property sale
- A letter from travel agents showing Mr H travelled between 14 April 2022 to 
16 April 2022 to the UK at a cost of USD 5,818; and then again between 
24 November 2022 until 26 November 2022 at a cost of USD 6,266
- A handwritten loan agreement dated 1 June 2022 at an interest rate of 15% for USD 
200,000 
Our Investigator then sent both parties their recommendations. In summary, they found: 
- Barclays should have given Mr H access to his funds much sooner. But Barclays isnt 
responsible for all the losses Mr H has claimed as he hasnt provided enough 
evidence these were direct losses 
- In August 2021, the AFO was set-aside. Mr H and his legal representatives contacted 
Barclays. But Barclays had not received official notice from HMRC nor the courts 
about this 
- On 23 February 2022, an email provided by Mr H shows HMRC had contacted 
Barclays in February 2022 regarding the AFO being set-aside. But Barclays were waiting from the correct letter of authority from Mr Hs lawyer before it could do 
anything further. Barclays werent doing anything wrong by waiting for this 
- On 24 February 2022, Mr Hs lawyer emailed Barclays with the relevant authority and 
emails confirming the AFO was set aside. It was at this stage that Barclays had all 
the relevant evidence required to release Mr Hs balance. But this email was left 
unanswered by Barclays, despite several chasers being sent to it. Barclays hasnt 
been able to explain why it didnt act on the email from 24 February 2022 promptly
- After releasing the funds in March 2022, Barclays removed them on 28 April 2022. 
Barclays hasnt provided any evidence to show why it didnt release Mr Hs funds, 
despite closing the accounts later. Barclays has made an error here 
- Later Barclays had difficulties in locating Mr Hs funds. It finally located the funds on 
1 November 2022 and offered Mr H a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. Mr H was also given the option to email his ID and account details
- So Barclays are responsible for causing two delays in releasing the funds to Mr H. 
Once between 24 February 2022 until 23 March 2022 and then from 28 April 2022 
until 25 November 2022 
Our Investigator then explained what the impact was of Barclays failings, and what fair 
compensation should be to put things right. In summary, they found: 
- Mr H was given access to his funds on 23 March 2022. Its unusual he didnt move 
his funds immediately to pay the debt he owed to his family friend. Mr Hs dispute 
with a third-party was ongoing since mid-2021  whilst the AFO was in place. And 
Barclays was entitled to hold the funds until February 2022
- Mr H has sent a handwritten loan agreement for USD 200,000. This is signed in the 
summer of 2022, given the debt he owed was in 2021 its unclear why he took it out 
then. Importantly, Mr H couldve used his funds in March 2022, but he didnt. Mr H 
hasnt given strong evidence of taking out this loan and it isnt evidence enough to 
prove the reason it was taken out  
- The debt Mr H says he owed was USD 200,000, but he had around £148,100 in his 
Barclays accounts. So he didnt have enough funds in any event to cover his debt. 
This meant he would always have had to borrow funds. So Barclays isnt responsible 
for Mr H taking out a personal loan. As he had the opportunity to utilise his funds in 
March 2022, Barclays doesnt need to compensate him 
- Mr H wants compensation for financial loss related to the change in exchange rates. 
We cant consider hypothetical loss  it needs to have occurred. Mr H claims he 
wants to exchange his funds into USD  but we cant assume he was going to do this 
for sure. And he had the opportunity to exchange these funds in March 2022 and 
chose not to. Mr H has since kept his funds in a UK account since they were 
released to him. So Barclays doesnt need to compensate Mr H for this  
- They cant see why Mr H flew to the UK between 14 April 2022 to 16 April 2022 given 
the accounts were operational at that time with Barclays. So its unreasonable for 
Barclays to pay compensation for the cost of these flights 
- Its unclear why Mr H chose to travel between 24 November 2022 and 
26 November 2022 when Barclays had offered the option to email it his ID and 
details of bank account, he wanted the money sent to. Barclays did this as they were aware he was abroad and wanted to offer a solution to prevent him from travelling. 
So this was Mr Hs choice, and it would be unreasonable for Barclays to compensate 
him for the cost of these flights   
- To put things right, our Investigator said Barclays needed to: 
Pay 8% simple interest on £8,118.81 between 24 February 2022 until 
23 March 2022, and between 28 April 2022 until 25 November 2022
Pay the savings account interest rate for £140,003.98 between 
24 February 2022 until 23 March 2022, and between 28 April 2022 until 
25 November 2022
Pay £400, which includes Barclays overall offer of £200, for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused Mr H 
Barclays agreed with what our Investigator said. Mr H, and his representative did not. Some 
of the key points they made in response are: 
- Mr H doesnt agree he had access to his funds in March and April 2022. He wasnt 
given any notice that his accounts had been unblocked and the funds released into 
them. The first he knew is when he received the bank statement for April 2022 which 
showed his funds where in his account, but after going into his local branch he found 
they were not. If they were available, he wouldve used them and has therefore lost 
out on a better exchange rate at that time 
- In August 2022 Mr H emailed Barclays his IDs. But it wanted the IDs and signed 
transfer letter notarised at the UK embassy. This wouldve taken three weeks to do, 
so thats why Mr H travelled to the UK 
- There is effectively no banking industry in the country Mr H is residing in. Because of 
the issues in that country, the economy is based predominantly on cash transactions 
and very few loans are given by financial firms and applications can take many 
months. So Mr H borrowed funds from a family friend, given it was cheaper and 
much quicker to do 
- Mr H has shown he had a salary in the country he was living in  so he was able to 
meet his loan payments 
- Mr H flew to the UK in April 2022 to check his accounts as he wasnt getting a clear 
answer on the phone with Barclays staff. Mr H is accustomed to flying business 
class due to his occupation. He should be compensated for at least one of his flight 
costs
- Mr H agrees with the 8% simple interest compensation on his current account funds. 
But the rate of the savings account should apply from February 2022 up until 
November 2022 and it should be at a rate of 8% because if he had access, he would 
have utilised the funds to repay his loan 
Our Investigator reiterated their points and maintained they had reached a fair outcome for 
Mr Hs complaint. As Mr H didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr H, his representative and 
Barclays have said before reaching my decision. 
Mr H hasnt complained about Barclays closing his accounts. There is also no dispute in 
relation to Barclays complying with the AFO. This complaint therefore relates to when 
Barclays should have released the funds to Mr H, and its actions after that point. 
Funds release 
Barclays say it only received sufficient notice that Mr Hs funds could be released to him on 
23 March 2022. To support this, it has sent me a screenshot of its internal systems that 
show an entry on this date saying the AFO has now been set-aside and the funds have been 
released into Mr Hs accounts. 
Mr H has sent in several emails which show chains of correspondence between his legal 
representative at the time, the HMRC and Barclays. He has provided an email which shows 
that in November 2021 HMRC decided to withdraw its application for forfeiture  and that it 
will contact Mr Hs banks to release any funds to him. 
On 23 February 2022, Mr Hs solicitors emailed HMRC and said that following a call the 
week before, it wanted to know if Barclays had been notified the funds could be released to 
Mr H. HMRC responded on the same day that its officer had notified Mr Hs banks. 
An email from Mr Hs solicitor to Mr H on 24 February 2022 shows that he was informed 
Barclays needed a letter of authority from his solicitors that they had authority to act on his 
accounts, which they did not have. And without this letter Barclays couldnt do anything. It 
also said the quickest way to resolve the matter was for Mr H to call them from one of its 
branches. The email also says the letter of authority was attached for Mr H to sign.  
Ive also seen a signed copy of the letter of authority on Mr Hs solicitors letterhead signed 
by him and dated 24 February 2022. This is directed at Barclays and authorises Mr Hs 
solicitors to act on his behalf. Mr H has sent an email chain which shows his solicitors then 
forwarded this authority letter to the court team at Barclays. On 1, 7,17 March 2022 Mr Hs 
solicitors chased Barclays for a response as it had heard nothing since its email on 
24 February 2022.
Barclays responded on 23 March 2022 and said the AFO has now been actioned  and 
funds have been returned to Mr Hs accounts. 
Barclays hasnt given me any information to show when it received information from either 
HMRC or any other party as to when the AFO was set-aside. HMRCs email of 
23 February 2022, as referenced above, says its officer had notified Mr Hs banks. Barclays 
needed to see written authority from Mr H instructing his solicitors to act on his behalf with Barclays. I find that this is a reasonable request. This letter was sent on 24 February 2022. 
Barclays accepted our Investigators findings that it should have released the funds to Mr Hs 
accounts on this date in February 2022. And given what the HMRC email says, and likely 
correspondence from Mr Hs solicitors that the AFO had been set-aside, Im satisfied 
Barclays should have acted more expeditiously  and so, the funds made available to Mr H 
on 24 February 2022.  
Barclays has sent me its internal notes, screenshots and account statements which show 
the funds were released into Mr Hs accounts on 23 March 2022. Mr H says he wasnt told 
about this and when he realised after seeing his April 2022 statement, he went into his local 
branch a few days later but was told the funds werent in the accounts. 
Having carefully considered the information Barclays has sent me, Im satisfied that the 
funds were released from one of its sundry accounts to Mr Hs accounts on 23 March 2023. I 
also note, as I referenced above, that Mr Hs solicitors email shows that the Barclays team 
handling court orders sent them an email on 23 March 2022 explaining the funds had been 
returned - and that an email has also been sent to Mr H to confirm this. So, I think Mr H was 
most likely aware his funds were released to him in March 2022. 
Barclays has said it intended to close Mr Hs accounts on 28 April 2022, and because of this 
moved the funds back into one of its sundry accounts. But it failed to process the closure 
properly  only doing so in July 2022. I note the funds were taken out of Mr Hs account at 
this point. 
Mr H should have been able to access his funds from 24 February 2022 and was only able 
to do so between 23 March 2022 until 27 April 2022 - given they were once again removed 
on 28 April 2022.   
Mr H has explained that he faced significant challenges in trying to locate and retrieve his 
funds after that point  often being told Barclays couldnt locate them. This is a significant 
failing on Barclays part which it accepts and has also apologised for the poor customer 
service. 
So, to be clear, Barclays needs to compensate Mr H for being without access to his funds 
from:
24 February 2022 up until 23 March 2022; and
28 April 2022 up until they were released to him on 25 November 2022 
Fair compensation 
Mr H had £8,118.81 in a current account, and £140,003.98 in his Barclays savings account. 
Its likely Mr H wouldve used funds in his current account for everyday costs, so I think he 
should be paid 8% simple interest on them for the periods hes been deprived of their use.  
Mr H says that he wouldve used all his funds, including those in the savings account to 
exchange into US dollars to then send to his account in the country he is, and had been, 
living in. To support this, Mr H has sent me documents related to a property sale for which 
he needed the funds for, and a handwritten loan agreement he says he took out from a 
family friend in the sum of USD 200,000. Mr H has also explained why borrowing money in 
this way was the most viable option for him. 
Firstly, Ive already said that Barclays had made funds available to Mr H on 23 March 2022, and from the evidence Ive seen he most likely knew that was the case at that point. So I 
question why he didnt utilise those funds at that point given hed taken out the loan in the 
summer of 2021. After all paying a loan off to a family friend at a rate of 15% interest 
wouldve been a more financially viable option. 
I also cant place too much weight on a handwritten loan agreement in isolation. I note Mr H 
says this was a cash transaction given the issues over banking in his resident country. But 
given the loan was taken to fulfil a property transaction he was contractually obligated to; Id 
expect to see official documents that it was completed given Mr H was able to acquire the 
funds he needed. 
I also note that the translated notary documents Mr H has provided to show he was 
obligated to this property transaction show he was the seller of a property. A document 
dated 10 May 2021, which is signed and sealed by an attorney, shows the property sale 
didnt go through and the buyer, a third-party, was requesting termination of the contract and 
a return of 10% of the amounts paid. This matter was open to negotiations. Another 
translated document dated 3 May 2021, from a government body, shows the third-party was 
unable to complete on the purchase and that funds he had paid should be returned to him. 
Lastly, a third translated document signed by an attorney on 26 July 2021 shows Mr H 
agreed to sell a property for a USD equivalent price of 600,000 to this third-party. And that 
the buyer had so far paid Mr H around USD 400,000. 
It appears that Mr H was able to retain 10% of what the buyer had paid him and had to 
return the other funds to the buyer as per his contractual agreement. 
This all took place in 2021, when Barclays was implementing the AFO by withholding Mr Hs 
funds. And I note he says he borrowed USD 200,000 around this time to meet his 
contractual obligations. If Mr H wanted to utilise his Barclays funds, he wouldnt have been 
able to do so until February 2022 when they ought to have been released to him. 
Ive already said that Mr H had access to his funds from Barclays in March 2022, and he 
likely knew he did too. So I question, as Ive alluded to before, why he didnt send the funds 
at that point to pay off his loan hed taken in 2021  after all he was being charged 15% 
interest. I also note Mr H has continued to keep the funds in a savings account in the UK. 
Mr H says he has done this due to the low exchange rate and thereby avoiding a material 
loss on his funds. 
Exchange rates fluctuate and can be volatile  and this isnt something Barclays are 
responsible for. Mr H had the opportunity to use these funds in March 2022 when they were 
made available to him, albeit around a month later than Barclays should have. And once 
they were released, he chose to keep them in the UK. Hes also said that hes able to 
service the personal loan from his income. 
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded Mr H has most likely opted to keep the funds in 
the UK when he couldve utilised to help pay off most of his loan abroad. He says he doesnt 
want to because of the low exchange rate. This is his choice, and given he hasnt exchanged 
the funds, he hasnt suffered any material loss that I can fairly consider. 
Having said that, I think Mr H would most likely have kept the funds in a savings account, 
given thats what he did with Barclays and is now doing with an external bank. Because of 
that, Im satisfied Barclays ought to compensate Mr H by paying the saving accounts 
interest rates for the periods Ive said he was deprived of the funds. 
Unfortunately Mr H doesnt have the tickets he used to fly to the UK and contemporaneous records of what he paid for them. Because of this he has sent in a letter from the travel 
agents he used to show when he travelled, and how much it cost him. Even if I were to 
accept Barclays should pay the costs of these flights, I wouldnt expect it to pay for the 
additional costs of paying business class fares. I note Mr H says he was accustomed to 
flying in this way, but he chose to do this when he couldve flown economy class.  
The travel agents letter shows Mr H flew between 14 and 16 April 2022. But as Ive already 
said, the funds were in his account at that point, so I dont think Barclays needs to pay any 
compensation for these flights. In passing, I also question how he was able to receive his 
statements dated 14 April 2022 and speak to the branch a few days later within the date 
range he says he flew to the UK. 
Barclays had offered Mr H the opportunity to have his funds released by him sending ID and 
bank details in email. Mr H says this wouldve taken three weeks as he needed them 
notarised by the UK embassy. And he wanted to get this long-standing issue resolved  so 
he chose to come to the UK in person. 
I havent seen that Barclays asked Mr H to get his documents notarised or certified in this 
way. But even if I were to accept it did, Mr H chose to come to the UK in this way, so I dont 
think Barclays needs to compensate him for his airfare. In saying this I can appreciate that 
Barclays previous failings would have caused him great frustration, distress and 
inconvenience. But Barclays took reasonable steps in giving Mr H an option to prevent him 
from having to travel  something he chose not to do. 
From what Ive seen, Mr H has faced significant inconvenience and distress in trying to get 
his funds released to him when Barclays failed to close his account properly from April 2022. 
It took a further seven months for Mr H to get his funds. Ive already said what Barclays 
needs to do in relation to the depravation of funds. But Im satisfied it also needs to 
compensate Mr H for the considerable distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
In reaching an award, Ive considered that Mr H has made many calls which he has said is 
upwards of 30 if not 100 to Barclays. I also note that being told Barclays isnt able to locate 
the funds would have caused panic and anxiety. Having looked at this services approach to 
compensation, Im persuaded that £400 is fair compensation. This is inclusive of Barclays 
offer of £200. 
Mr H has also said that Barclays should compensate him for his legal fees. I dont agree with 
this as Mr H instructed them to help with the AFO and dealing with HMRC and the courts.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays must:
- Pay Mr H 8% simple annual interest on £8,118.81 between 24 February 2022 until 
23 March 2022, and between 28 April 2022 until 25 November 2022*
- Pay Mr H the prevailing savings account interest rate(s) for £140,003.98 between 
24 February 2022 until 23 March 2022, and between 28 April 2022 until 
25 November 2022*
- Pay Mr H £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered
*If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must now put 
things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman