DRN-4237344
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance Plc disposed of his van without his consent 
following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms van was damaged and West Bay said it was beyond economical repair. An engineer 
assessed the van as a Category S total loss, but West Bays engineers said it was a 
Category B. And so West Bay said it was obliged to dispose of the vans salvage. But it 
didnt tell Mr M this first. It paid Mr M the salvage value, but Mr M was unhappy as he said 
hed been offered £4,000 for the vans scrap. West Bay offered Mr M £100 compensation for 
its poor communication. But Mr M didnt accept this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought West Bay 
shouldnt have disposed of the van without informing Mr M. And he thought Mr M had lost 
out as he thought it was likely an independent engineer may have found the van to be a 
Category S total loss. So he thought West Bay should pay Mr M £4,000, less the salvage 
amount it had already paid him. 
West Bay replied that the damage to the van and the cost of repairs made it a total loss. It 
said it had followed the industry code of practice in declaring the van to be Category B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M made an earlier complaint to West Bay that his policy had been voided 
(cancelled from the start) and so his claim was declined. This was brought to our service and 
an Ombudsman issued a final decision not upholding this complaint. So I wont comment on 
this further. But, in the meantime, West Bay had recovered Mr Ms van to its salvage agent. 
It had been declared to be beyond economical repair and West Bay needed to decide what 
to do with it. 
Our approach is that when a vehicle is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor 
insurance policy, as Mr Ms van was, the insurer, in this case West Bay, becomes the owner 
of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the vans full market value. This 
didnt happen in Mr Ms case as the policy was declared void. But this meant the claim was 
closed and so West Bay wasnt the vans owner. 
Our stance is that where the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we expect the insurer to 
allow this. The van is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to 
keep it if they wish to do so. 
Ive looked at West Bays case file. I can see that the van was initially assessed by an 
engineer as a Category S total loss. This meant that the van was repairable, but the insurer 
had assessed it to be beyond economical repair. 
West Bay then sought to return the vans salvage to Mr M. He said he didnt have a drive 
way and so it wasnt delivered to him. I cant see that Mr M then wanted to retain the vans 
salvage, but he did offer to sell it to West Bays salvage agent. 
West Bays in-house engineers then assessed the van to be a Category B total loss based 
on a desk top review. This meant that the van had structural damage that meant it should be 
kept off the road, but it could be broken up for spare parts. 
West Bay said that it couldnt return the van to Mr M as it was a Category B total loss. But 
we think that the duty to dispose of salvage in this case applies to the owner. So if the 
consumer retains the salvage its then up to them to dispose of it if this is required. Where a 
consumer wants to retain salvage for a Category B write-off we look to see whether its likely 
theyd be able to break the vehicle for parts and dispose of it appropriately.
If we think the consumer had the means to break and dispose of the vehicle, the insurer may 
need to compensate the consumer for the cost of the parts or the loss of opportunity to sell 
the parts. The cost to the consumer of keeping the salvage would then need to be factored 
in to any loss.
In Mr Ms case, West Bay disposed of the salvage and paid Mr M the balance after 
deducting its costs. Mr M received this cheque, but he said he thought it was for a refund of 
premium. There was no accompanying explanation for the payment. 
Seven months later, Mr M complained that West Bay had disposed of the van without his 
permission. He said that he had wanted to have his own engineer assess the vans salvage 
category and then sell the van for parts. West Bay agreed that it should have discussed the 
disposal with him. And so Mr M had lost the opportunity to challenge the salvage category. It 
offered him £100 compensation for this and for the loss of any personal possessions left in 
the van. 
But Im not satisfied that this goes far enough in the circumstances. I can see that the first 
assessment was based on a physical inspection of the van, while the second was based on 
a desk top review. A further assessment by Mr Ms engineer could have found the van to be 
Category S or B. But its now too late to decide this.  
But Mr M has provided evidence from a disposal agent with an offer of £4,000 for the vans 
parts. This was offered before West Bay disposed of the van. And so I think Mr M had the 
means of disposing of the vans scrap appropriately. I think that if West Bay had told Mr M 
that it intended to dispose of the salvage, then Mr M could have sold the vans parts for 
scrap, as he was entitled to do. So I think West Bays mistake has caused Mr M detriment 
and it should put this right. 
Our Investigator recommended that West Bay should pay Mr M £4,000 compensation for his 
loss, less the amount it has already paid him for the vans salvage. I think that will fairly and 
reasonably restore Mr Ms position. I dont require West Bay to add interest to this amount as 
I think Mr M could have brought this to West Bays attention sooner. I think West Bays offer 
of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor communication is fair and 
reasonable as I cant see that Mr M was unduly distressed by West Bays error. 
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mr M £4,000 compensation, less the salvage 
payment it has already paid him, for the loss caused by its disposal of his van. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West 
Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman