DRN-4346985
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), closed his individual current account without 
notice. He would like compensation and a full explanation why his account was closed.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month where I upheld this complaint but 
made a different award to that made by our investigator. An extract from that decision 
follows:
Mr A had a current account with Monzo. I am aware that he also had a joint account which 
was also closed but I wont be dealing with that in this decision. Mr A said on 4 December 
2021 when he logged onto his account he realised he was unable to make any transactions 
including transfers or withdrawals. He says he then received a message to say his account 
was closed.
Monzo wasnt able to give him an explanation why and he wouldnt be able to open a new 
account with it in the future. Mr A added Monzo wouldnt take his calls and he wasnt able to 
use its live chat function. He decided to complain to Monzo.
 
In the meantime, Mr A also complained to us and said he wanted compensation and a full 
explanation why his account was closed. 
Mr A told us he wasnt able to take any money out or pay his bills. This was his main bank 
account where his salary was paid into and he also had a number of direct debits on it. Mr A 
added Monzo hadnt given him any prior notice so it was too late for his salary to go into his 
account that month so there was a delay in him being paid. His account being closed in this 
way caused him stress and anxiety- especially over the holiday period.
 
While the complaint was with us Monzo responded to Mr As complaint but it didnt uphold it. 
It said it complied with its internal procedures and legal and regulatory obligations and it had 
made a commercial decision to close the account. It wouldnt be able to reopen the account 
or open a new one for Mr A in the future. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. She 
didnt think Monzo acted fairly in closing the account without notice and thought it should pay 
Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr A agreed with our investigator but Monzo didnt and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
It might be helpful if I start off by explaining that our service doesnt punish or fine 
businesses, and its also not our place to say that a procedure the business follows is 
incorrect. Only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct (FCA), can do this. Businesses 
have legal and regulatory obligations they have to meet and they have processes in place in 
order to meet these obligations. So our role in cases like this one, is to look at whether the 
bank has followed its own internal procedures correctly, while also meeting its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Monzo closed the account on 5 December 2021 and blocked it the day before. It said this 
was done further to it reviewing the account and deciding to close it immediately. From what 
I have seen, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably in reviewing the account. As I said 
above, Monzo has ongoing legal and regulatory obligations and this means that in order for it 
to comply with those it may need to review its customers accounts from time to time. An 
account review isnt something it has to give its customers notice of and a review may result 
in an account being closed. 
Monzo has provided evidence which shows to me that its decision to close the account was 
fair and reasonable. At this point I should explain that our rules allow us to receive evidence 
in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  
for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some 
of the information Monzo has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential. So I wont be sharing a lot of detail with Mr A, but Id like to reassure him that 
Ive considered everything. 
As I said above, the account was closed without notice. Monzo is relying on its terms and 
conditions which say that it can close an account immediately in certain circumstances. I 
have considered its reasons for doing so and I think it acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. I appreciate this was a difficult time for Mr A but as I think the immediate 
closure was fair, Im not considering awarding him any compensation in relation to this.
I understand Mr A wants Monzo to explain why it closed his account but it is under no 
obligation to tell Mr A the reasons why it reviewed and closed the account. So I dont think 
its done anything wrong by not telling Mr A why the account was closed. Just as a customer 
can choose who they bank with, a bank can choose who it has (and keeps) as customers. A 
bank doesnt need to explain to its customer why its closing an account, just as Mr A 
wouldnt have had to give Monzo a reason if hed decided to leave it. Nevertheless, as I 
mentioned above, as part of looking at the case I have reviewed Monzos reasons for closing 
the account and I am satisfied that it acted fairly.
Mr A said that he eventually arranged for his salary to be paid into his partners account. He 
said, however, due to the delay he had late and missed payments which also affected his 
credit score. I have no reason to doubt what Mr A has said but in the absence of evidence in 
support I have decided not to make any further award in Mr As favour. And as I think the 
account was correctly closed with immediate effect this wouldnt impact my decision in any 
event.
Mr A also said that he hadnt received his full balance back but Monzo has shown that this 
was paid into another one of Mr As accounts. £34.63 was paid on 5 December and an 
additional £4.64 in March 2022. The £4.64 was from refunds that were paid into Mr As 
account in January, after it was closed. Its not clear why it took so long for this payment to 
make its way to Mr A and in the absence of a reasonable explanation by Monzo I am 
currently considering requiring it to pay Mr A interest on this amount for the delay.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, I have provisionally decided to uphold this complaint and require 
Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A 8% simple interest* on the £4.64 that was refunded to him late. The interest must be paid from the date the refund entered his account to the date it was 
returned to him.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr A said he was not happy with the 
outcome or the compensation particularly as it was lower than what the investigator had 
awarded. But he made no further comments. Monzo said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything and as neither party made any further comments my views on 
the complaint as set out provisionally have not changed. My provisional findings along with 
any further comments here are now the findings of this my final decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to pay Mr A 8% simple interest* on the £4.64 that was refunded to him late. The interest 
must be paid from the date the refund entered his account to the date it was returned to him
*If Monzo Bank Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman