DRN-3517454
The complaint
Mr A complains that hes recently been able to change the interest rate on his mortgage, 
after it moved to Skipton Building Society. Mr A said this should have been done months 
ago, and he wanted back the extra money which he felt hed overpaid in this time.
What happened
Mr A has also raised a complaint about the interest rate he was charged before his mortgage 
was transferred to Skipton. Our service is considering that separately, Im not looking at that 
here.
Mr As mortgage was transferred to Skipton in June 2021. He said that in early February 
2022 he was able to change his interest rate, to a lower rate. Mr A said he thought Skipton 
should have done this much earlier, in fact straight away when his mortgage moved. He felt 
he had been overpaying by a very significant amount since the mortgage was transferred. 
Mr A said Skipton claimed to have written to him, but he said hed never received this letter. 
He wanted us to look into this. 
When Skipton wrote to Mr A about this complaint, it said that it had written to him on 4 June 
2021, and that letter included a suggestion that Mr A could change his interest rate. But 
when this complaint came to us, Skipton said it had checked its records, and it had found a 
call recording which dealt with this issue too, from 11 June 2021, which was just after 
Skipton took over this mortgage. So Skipton sent us this call. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Skipton wrote to Mr A, 
and although Mr A said he didnt get this letter, our investigator said he was satisfied it was 
sent. And our investigator thought Skipton had made Mr A aware that he could access better 
interest rates on the call of 11 June 2021. Our investigator said Skipton also wrote to Mr A 
on 2 July 2021, and that letter encouraged him to get in touch so his circumstances can be 
discussed, and potential options considered.
Our investigator didnt think Skipton had made a mistake.
Mr A said he didnt get any post from Skipton. And he thought the call had been taken out of 
context. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I can see that Skipton wrote to Mr A on 4 June, saying it was the new provider of his 
mortgage. That was quite a long letter, page 3 of this letter mentioned switching to a different 
interest rate. Mr A says he didnt get this, but like our investigator, I think it was sent.
However, I dont think the correspondence Ive seen is key in this case, because I can hear 
Skipton also discussed this issue directly with Mr A, not long after it took over his mortgage.
Ive listened carefully to the call that Skipton had with Mr A on 11 June 2021. This call was 
primarily to discuss the small amount of arrears on Mr As mortgage at the time. Mr A was 
making manual payments, and the call handler gave Mr A new details to make those 
payments every month. 
But the call handler also told Mr A then that he could apply for a different rate on his 
mortgage. She was clear that he didnt have to keep paying 4% interest which was his 
existing rate. The call handler said Im almost certain we can improve on that. 
The call handler told Mr A she couldnt offer him an appointment where Skipton would give 
him formal mortgage advice, because his account was in arrears. But she said that didnt 
prevent him from changing to a lower interest rate. Mr A could look on Skiptons website, 
and apply for the better rates he would see there. 
The call handler also said that if Mr A was to bring down his interest rate, and lower his 
monthly payment, that might free up some money to help with his arrears. 
Our service can send this call recording to Mr A if he would like. 
When Mr A was contacted by Skipton again on 11 February 2022, he said that if a lower rate 
was available, then he should already have been put on that lower rate. Skipton confirmed 
on that call that it wouldnt just move Mr A to a new rate, but it had tried to get in touch with 
him about this. Skipton mentioned the letter it sent, which Ive referred to above. It didnt also 
mention the call of 11 June 2021 as well, but it has sent that call recording to our service.
On the evidence I have seen and heard, Im satisfied that Skipton did contact Mr A promptly, 
both by letter and by phone, to let him know that the recent changes to his mortgage meant 
he could now access lower interest rates. And on the call Skipton made to him, it said it 
would be beneficial for Mr A to change. For those reasons, I dont think Skipton has to pay 
back any additional interest that Mr A paid once his mortgage transferred to Skipton, over 
and above a better interest he could then have accessed. 
I understand that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman