DRN-4076786
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly gave him a fixed sum loan agreement he 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M applied for a loan of £4,000 with lendable. He was required to pay 47 
repayments £159.13 and one final payment of £245.33.
In 2022, Mr M complained to Lendable. He submitted a number of detailed complaints, but in 
summary, his key concerns were:
The loan had been unaffordable to him and therefore Lendable had approved the 
loan irresponsibly;
The details of the loan had been outsourced to other third parties without his consent, 
such as debt collectors;
The loan agreement was unenforceable under Scottish law;
Lendable failed to provide suitable forbearance measures when he was struggling to 
repay and failed to take account of his personal medical circumstances. He says 
Lendable discriminated against him and its communications with him were 
unreasonable.
Lendable didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had carried out appropriate 
affordability checks which showed that Mr M could afford the loan. It said it hadnt 
outsourced his loan to any third parties and didnt consider his loan unenforceable. It didnt 
think it had treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably in any way. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She considered that the checks 
Lendable completed before approving the loan were reasonable and proportionate and there 
was nothing within the checks that ought to have alerted them to any affordability concerns. 
She didnt think Lendable had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in any other way 
either. 
Mr M disagreed and provided a substantial response which broadly reiterated the same 
points about why he believed Lendable had acted unfairly towards him. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has set out his complaint in significant detail, and I mean him no discourtesy by the 
brief way I have summarised his complaint above, it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service. While I havent specifically addressed every point Mr M has made, I dont feel I need 
to in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint and I have in any event 
read and considered everything that has been said and provided. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key issues in this dispute. 
When dealing with Mr M, Lendable were required to follow the rules and guidance within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. Of particular relevance to this complaint are the 
rules and guidance contained within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC). 
Ive had these in mind, including other relevant parts of the handbook, when considering 
whether Lendable acted fairly and reasonably.
Before granting the loan, Lendable were required to complete proportionate affordability 
checks. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the specific circumstances 
of each case, as there isnt a set list of checks that had to be completed. When deciding 
what is proportionate, Lendable needed to take into account things such as (but not limited 
to): the amount borrowed, the cost of credit, the size of the regular repayments, the total 
repayable, the term and the consumers circumstances. 
Mr M declared he earned an annual income of £15,000. Lendable says it used data obtained 
from a credit reference agency to check whether what Mr M had declared was likely to be 
right. It says this check returned no concerns. It also completed a credit check which it said 
showed that Mr M held five open accounts, one of which was his current account. None of 
these accounts showed any signs of Mr M having difficulty in repaying them. While there 
was some historic payment problems on previous credit commitments, these werent 
particularly recent. 
I note Lendable says Mr M also declared on the application he was taking out the loan for 
debt consolidation. I think this is relevant because it means Lendable were entitled to 
conclude that this would mean the new loan was unlikely to increase Mr Ms overall 
indebtedness. While Mr M says this isnt what he used the loan funds for, Ive not seen any 
reason to think Lendable ought to have been aware of this at the time. It was entitled to rely 
on what Mr M told it. Ive not seen anything to indicate Lendable ought to have been 
concerned about the information Mr M had supplied as part of his application. 
Taking into account all the relevant factors, Im satisfied the affordability checks Lendable 
completed were reasonable and proportionate in the specific circumstances of this case. 
And in thinking about what evidence and information Lendable gathered as part of those 
checks, I dont think it made an unfair lending decision. I say this because the checks didnt 
appear to reveal any affordability concerns and given what Mr M had declared the loan 
would be used for, it appeared his overall debt repayments would likely decrease, rather 
than increase as a result of this loan. 
Mr M also says the agreement is unenforceable under Scottish law. He says, among other 
things, this is because he lacked capacity to contract at the point the agreement was entered 
into. Whether or not an agreement is unenforceable is ultimately a matter for the Courts to 
decide. However, Im required to take account of the law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear Mr M isnt well, however, Ive not been presented with anything to 
sufficiently persuade me that Lendable acted unfairly or unreasonably in agreeing to enter 
into a fixed sum loan agreement with him in 2019. Mr M did not disclose his medical 
circumstances to Lendable at the time, nor have I seen anything to suggest Lendable ought 
to have known either. Further, even if an agreement is unenforceable, simply seeking recovery of payments due 
under the loan and recording information on a credit file about that loan is unlikely to 
constitute enforcement of a loan agreement1. Im therefore not persuaded, notwithstanding 
whether Mr M might be right about the enforcement of the agreement, that Lendable has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him by seeking repayment of the loan. 
Mr M has listed a number of other ways in which he believes Lendable has acted unfairly 
towards him. However, having reviewed all the available evidence and arguments, Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me that it has. Ive not seen anything to indicate it has passed on 
his details to third parties, including debt collectors nor have I found any of its 
communications with him to have been inappropriate or unreasonable. 
Mr M has said that Lendable has collected direct debit payments on incorrect dates. 
However, direct debits wont always collect on the same day each month, for example where 
that date is a weekend or public holiday. Further, Mr M has made numerous requests to 
change payment dates and I can see that Lendable has tried to accommodate those each 
time. While Mr M says that in some instances those new dates werent adhered to and the 
money was collected a day (or a few days later), Ive not seen anything to persuade me that 
had a significant enough impact to warrant any award. Overall, Im not persuaded that 
Lendable has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman
1 McGuffick v The Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2009] EWHC 2386