DRN-1976007
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds (the underwriters) have 
settled his motor insurance claim unfairly.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Given that Mr Ss vehicle was deemed a total loss after the accident, the policy 
entitled him to the market value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. 
The underwriters have calculated the vehicles market value by using industry motor 
trade guides  which is standard practice within the insurance industry  and is 
widely considered to be a fair, reasonable and objective measure on which an insurer 
can base their settlement. In this instance, the underwriters have offered the highest 
possible value for the vehicle based on the indicative prices across the different 
motor trade guides, rather than settling at a lower average value. So they would not 
be expected to offer anything more than this, even if they were initially negotiating a 
settlement based on advertisements, as I think the way they have calculated their 
final settlement figure is fair.
I appreciate that Mr S may have found advertisements that show his model of vehicle 
being sold for a higher amount. But an advertisement is not necessarily indicative of 
his particular vehicles market value immediately before the accident, and merely 
shows the asking price the seller is looking for, which could in many instances be 
higher than the vehicles actual market value.
In terms of the courtesy car, the policy only makes provision for this if the 
policyholders vehicle is being repaired. It expressly states that the policyholder will 
not be offered a courtesy car if the vehicle is deemed to be a total loss, so there was 
no obligation on the underwriters to provide a courtesy car in these circumstances 
given that Mr Ss vehicle was written off.
I accept that the underwriters handling of the claim could have been better, as the 
vehicle could no doubt have been collected sooner than it was. And its clear there 
have been avoidable delays in progressing his claim. But the underwriters have 
already offered £100 compensation for this, which I consider to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and 
poor handling of Mr Ss claim. So I will not be awarding any further compensation on 
top of this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman