DRN-4310049
The complaint
Mr J complains that Skrill Limited closed his account and retained the funds in the account 
as a fee. Hed like the funds returned to him.
What happened
Mr J opened an account with Skrill in December 2021, and deposited 5,000INR. He then 
made several attempts to verify his ID with Skrill, but the business rejected his ID. In 
January 2022 Skrill decided to close his account with immediate effect. They also applied an 
administration fee of 5,000INR.
Unhappy with this Mr J complained, saying it wasnt fair that Skrill had closed his account 
and kept his funds. Skrill responded to say theyd stuck with their own internal procedures 
when deciding to close his account. They referred Mr J to the terms of the account which 
explained why they would charge the administration fee. 
Mr J then referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators took a look and 
thought the complaint should succeed in part. She didnt think Skrill had done anything 
wrong by closing the account. But she felt that any checks on Mr Js identity could have 
been completed before the account opened, and money deposited. She thought it was unfair 
for Skrill to retain the deposits, and asked for the 5,000INR to be returned to him.
Skrill rejected this as an outcome and asked for an ombudsman to decide. As such, the 
complaint was been passed to me. I reviewed the evidence and issued a provisional 
decision that said:
Skrill, like all financial businesses in the UK, have to meet strict legal and regulatory 
requirements when providing accounts to their customers. One of the key requirements 
when opening and operating an account is being able to confirm the identity of their 
consumers. And if theyre not able to do this to their satisfaction then they may need to 
restrict or close the account. There is provision for this in the terms of the Skrill account.
In Mr Js case, Im satisfied Skrill were acting in line with these requirements when asking for 
his identification. The account was newly opened so Skrill would need verification of his 
identity. 
Generally, its up to financial businesses whether they want to provide financial services to a 
consumer, or potential consumer. Unless theres a good reason our service wont generally 
say a business must keep an account open or reopen a closed account. Skrill reviewed the 
identification provided as part of their processes and decided to close the account. Having 
reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that the concerns Skrill had were legitimate. As such its 
not unreasonable that Skrill closed Mr Js account. 
I appreciate Mr Js main concern is the 5,000INR Skrill withheld as an administration fee 
when his account was closed. This was the total balance in the account, and I can 
understand why hed want it back.
Im sympathetic to the argument that Skrill could have carried out their identification checks 
before allowing Mr J to deposit funds. But Im also mindful that the terms of the account 
allow Skrill to charge a fee of up to €150 if they close a consumers account. This is a clearly 
displayed term. Mr J will have had to have read and agreed to these terms before he opened 
the account. So, Im satisfied Skrill are entitled to charge this fee.
At the time the account was closed the 5,000INR held in the account was less than €150. 
Ive already mentioned that I think Skrill acted fairly in their review and closure of Mr Js 
account. So, based on the terms he agreed to, I dont see its unfair for Skrill to charge the 
administration fee. As such Im not intending to ask them to waive it.
Skrill responded to say they accepted the provisional decision. Mr J did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence to consider from either party, I 
remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision. I dont see that 
Skrill were unfair in reviewing and closing Mr Js account. And Im satisfied that the fee 
retained for administration is in line with the terms of the account. So, its not unreasonable 
for Skrill to retain this. As such, I dont see that Skrill need to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman