DRN-3769707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about investment advice they received from City House Investors 
Limited. They think the advice to sell some of their investments at the start of the pandemic 
wasnt in line with their circumstances and objectives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were clients of an adviser who worked for City House. In March 2020 the 
adviser contacted them and recommended that they move some of their portfolio into cash 
due to the volatility in the stock market caused by the pandemic.
Mr and Mrs B discussed the proposal with the adviser and eventually agreed to the move. 
The adviser subsequently said that he would look to reinvest the funds on a phased basis 
and provided updates over the next few months giving his thoughts on the state of the 
market. The reinvestment began in November 2020 in 20% tranches, with the entire sum 
being reinvested by 15 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to City House in March 2021. They said, in summary, that the 
advice went against their investment strategy and the reinvestment had taken too long which 
meant theyd missed out on gains. City House looked into the concerns thatd been raised 
but didnt uphold the complaint. They thought the adviser had explained his rationale to Mr 
and Mrs B at the time and theyd accepted the advice to de-risk some of their holdings. 
They also thought Mr and Mrs B had been provided with warnings that the timing of 
reinvestment may potentially mean that they lost the opportunity for growth but, also the risk 
of further losses. And theyd been provided with a rationale as to when the adviser felt it was 
right to reinvest which they couldve accepted or declined.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator looked into the concerns that 
had been raised but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought, in summary, 
that Mr and Mrs B had expressed a need for capital preservation in a December 2019 
review. The advice to move around 33% of their portfolio to cash provided capital protection 
during an uncertain period so he didnt think the advice was unreasonable.
After the move to cash the adviser had provided regular updates explaining why he didnt 
think the funds should be reinvested. Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances hadnt changed so he 
thought it was reasonable for the adviser to continue with a cautious approach and reinvest 
in traches of 20% when he felt it was appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
The advice meant that they were holding around 60% of their portfolio in cash, not 
33%.
Their attitude to risk (ATR) has always been moderate not cautious and this didnt 
change in the 2019 review. 
Theyd had hypothetical conversations about the future, but their attitude was always 
focused on the long term. This was evidenced by a conversation they had with the 
adviser in February 2020 around holding too much cash which resulted in an 
investment into a fund with a risk profile rated 5 out of 7.
The advice was directed at all the advisers clients and therefore wasnt specific to 
them and their circumstances.
The adviser hadnt kept them informed about the cost of not being invested. Hed 
initially said theyd be out of the market for the short term, but it was seven months 
before the reinvestment started which led to a loss of £85,000.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint was passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. I will now explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs central argument is, in summary, that the advice to move some of their 
portfolio into cash went against their agreed ATR. And it then took too long for the cash to be 
reinvested.
I note the point theyve made regarding how the adviser communicated the advice. Theyve 
said he sent a generic email to all his clients giving them all the same advice. Broadly 
speaking, Im not persuaded that giving blanket advice to a number of consumers at the 
same time is best practice, given that every consumers specific set of circumstances will be 
different. It therefore becomes difficult to gauge if the advice is truly in the consumers best 
interests. However, the adviser has said that he only sent the email to some of his clients 
whose circumstances and risk profile meant that the recommendation was suitable as part of 
their overall portfolio. 
An adviser has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Some of the key rules Ive considered in 
determining if the advice was suitable are:
COBS 9.2.1: which says, in summary, that a firm must ensure that a recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And when doing so, they must obtain sufficient 
information about the client's knowledge, experience, financial situation and objectives
COBS 9.2.2: which broadly says, among other things, that a firm needs to get enough 
information from the customer to be able to make sure the recommendation meets their 
objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment risk and they understand the risks 
involved. 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the advice to see if 
the recommendation was appropriate for them. A good starting point is the review they had 
with the adviser in December 2019. At the time, Mr and Mrs B were aged 53 and 47 
respectively. Mr B had retired and it was noted that - Your attitude to risk remains moderate 
- however now that you have ceased full time employment your capacity for loss has 
decreased as you will not be using your capital and income generated form (sic) your 
savings and investments to cover some of your ongoing expenditure. 
Their income was recorded as £2,626 (Mrs Bs income) against expenditure of £4,858. It 
was also noted that there were plans for Mrs B to retire in a few years time at which point all 
expenditure would be paid from their accumulated capital and retirement income until they 
started to receive their pension income. They had assets of around £2,500,000 - a house 
valued at £1,000,000, cash savings of c.£370,000, pensions of c.£380,000 and investments 
of c.£785,000. They had no outstanding liabilities. 
Throughout the review document there was a recurring mention of capital preservation due 
to the loss of Mr Bs employment income and the loss of Mrs Bs employment income when 
she eventually retired. I think that this a key point, because while Mr and Mrs Bs ATR was 
balanced, I think that its clear that they wanted to preserve their capital. So, I think its 
important that I bear this in mind when considering the advisers recommendation. Ive also 
considered the extreme market conditions at the time due to the Covid 19 pandemic. 
In his email of 19 March 2020 the adviser said As the effects of Coronavirus continue to 
push stock markets lower, in a move to protect the current value of your 
investments/pensions I am recommending a switch to a low risk money market portfolio for 
the short term until markets stabilise. and Indicators are pointing towards stock markets and 
the global economy declining further in the coming weeks, as the economic effects of the 
increased number of people in the developed world undertaking social distancing and self 
isolation take hold. With many governments throwing massive fiscal and monetary stimulus 
at the markets showing little impact, there seems to be no stabilisation in sight. I feel for the 
short term (the next few weeks initially) that protection of your portfolio is the priority.
Mr and Mrs B replied to his email confirming that theyd accepted his proposal but 
subsequently asked to speak to him to discuss the proposal further. The notes from the call 
show that the adviser gave his reasoning behind the recommendation but also explained 
that if Mr and Mrs B came out of the market they wouldnt benefit from any growth if the 
markets started to recover. Mr and Mrs B accepted the recommendation and agreed to then 
move back into the markets once there was more stability. 
The adviser recommended that they move c.£389,000 from their existing investments into 
low risk assets. This left around £646,000 at risk across their other investments and 
pensions. This meant that around 54% of their assets (not including their property) was in 
cash or money market funds. I dont think this is unreasonable given their desire to protect 
their capital as noted in the 2019 review.
However, the risk was that they would miss out on any upturn in the market as theyd 
crystallised their losses. But from what Ive seen, the adviser made them aware of this 
possibility. I appreciate that they would have earned more if theyd remained invested, but 
we only know this now with the benefit of hindsight. 
I do have a concern that they were told theyd only be out of the market for a short period of 
time, but reinvestment didnt start until seven months later. But the available evidence shows 
that the adviser updated them on 8 June, 18 August and 31 October explaining why he thought it was appropriate not to reinvest. He also invited contact if there were any questions 
or if a detailed discussion about his reasoning was required. From what Ive seen, I think the 
adviser provided Mr and Mrs B with enough information to understand the position of the 
markets at the time and what he thought the likely future performance would be. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that they werent in an informed 
position or were treated unfairly. And because I also dont think the recommendation was 
unsuitable, it therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman