DRN-3207428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their applications for a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held a business account with Santander and decided to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan (BBL) with the bank in July 2020. 
The bank said it was unable to proceed with the application as there was an issue with 
Mr Ls identification documents. Santander said its system needed to be updated before Mr 
and Mrs L could submit another application. Mr L took his identification to the bank branch 
but due to an error, his details werent updated.
Mr and Mrs L made another application but as the system issue hadnt been resolved, the 
bank couldnt proceed, and the application was cancelled. As Mr L was abroad and unable 
to provide the identification again, the account was changed into Mrs Ls sole name so she 
could make another application without further delay. Mrs L complained to Santander, who 
upheld the complaint and paid £75 compensation.
Several more applications were made by Mrs L as a sole trader, but these were also 
declined - firstly because Santander identified a further system issue for Mrs L and also 
because the turnover figure in the application didnt match the credits made to the account. 
Mrs L was unhappy that the BBL application had been declined again and made a 
complaint. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said the applications had been correctly 
declined due to the discrepancy between the turnover declared on the applications and what 
could be seen going through the account. It recommended Mrs L review the turnover figure 
shed declared before making another application. Mr and Mrs L didnt think the banks 
stance was fair and asked this service to look into their complaint. 
After the complaint was brought to the service, the bank made an offer of a further £100 
compensation to Mrs L for the service relating to her account information  which she didnt 
accept.
Our investigator thought Santanders revised offer was a fair way to put things right. He said 
there were various issues with each of the five applications  including the turnover amount 
which couldnt be verified by the bank and issues with the account information  so he 
thought theyd been correctly declined. He also thought Santander could have seen the 
account information issues sooner, but the additional £100 compensation was a fair amount 
for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said 
their application was based on the turnover from their annual accounts, of which they 
provided a copy. Mr and Mrs L also said theyd provided all the information the bank had 
asked for and changed the account to Mrs Ls sole name as suggested by the bank  as it 
had misplaced the documents Mr L had taken to the branch as requested. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator - for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL. This included the requirement 
to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and maximum permitted borrowing from 
between £2,000 and 25% of their turnover to a maximum of £50,000. 
When Mr and Mrs L submitted the first application, they declared a turnover of around £7.9 
million pounds. Although this was likely to be a typo on the application, the bank correctly 
declined the application as this amount didnt match the turnover through the account. 
Mr and Mrs L then submitted several more applications both jointly, and then with Mrs L as 
sole trader  however Santander declined all of these on the basis that the credits into the 
account didnt support the annual turnover theyd declared on the applications. Santander 
has provided copies of the account transactions which show that turnover through the 
account was significantly less than the turnover figure declared by Mr and Mrs L.
As Santander couldnt verify Mr and Mrs Ls level of turnover, it wasnt satisfied that they met 
the eligibility requirements and declined their application accordingly. I think this decision 
was made in line with the Scheme rules and was reasonable in light of the information the 
bank reviewed.
Mr and Mrs L have told us they undertake some business transactions through another bank 
 due to their account with Santander not supporting some types of credit - and some 
transactions being made in cash. Mr and Mrs L have also provided us with a copy of their 
accounts which shows their turnover. I can understand why Mr and Mrs L think that 
Santander should have asked them for additional information which would have evidenced 
the turnover they declared  rather than just decline the applications. 
However, the Scheme was put in place so that funding could be provided quickly to 
businesses affected by the Coronavirus pandemic. This  and the high level of applications 
that lenders were receiving - meant the bank had a largely automated process with checks 
using the account turnover, rather than asking for further information. Santander was entitled 
to set its own processes for handling applications, and I think this was a reasonable means 
of doing so quickly, as expected. So I dont think Santander did anything wrong in declining 
to seek further information from Mr and Mrs L before assessing their applications.  
I also acknowledge Mr and Mrs L believe the bank hasnt acted in line with the government-
backed Scheme rules in carrying out the checks that it did. However, under the Scheme 
rules, checks still needed to be made to ensure borrowers met the eligibility requirements, 
and with some discretion for lenders to have the final say as to whether to approve the loan. 
I dont think Santander did anything wrong in seeking to verify the information that Mr and 
Mrs L provided in their application in the manner it did.
Looking at the way Santander dealt with the applications, I can see that there was initially an 
issue with Mr and Mrs Ls identification on the banks system which meant the second 
application was declined. I think this was reasonable as Santander needed to hold correct 
information for applicants when providing the BBL. 
However, I dont think the bank dealt with Mr and Mrs Ls subsequent applications fairly. I 
say this because after this application was declined, Mr L took his identification to a branch 
as requested. But due to an error, the branch didnt get the documents uploaded. This meant 
when Mr and Mrs L applied again, the application was cancelled as Santander couldnt see 
the documentation had been received. The account was then changed from joint names to Mrs L as a sole trader. Mr and Mrs L 
have always referred to themselves as a partnership and the original applications were 
submitted on this basis. Given that the change only took place after the issues with Mr Ls 
documents, I think its most likely that the bank suggested this as a way to reapply for a BBL 
more quickly. But it wasnt until Mrs L applied again in her sole name that the bank noticed a 
further error with her account information which meant another application was cancelled. 
The bank has acknowledged that it should have spotted this sooner. 
I think that Santanders actions meant that Mr and Mrs L spent time completing two more 
applications than ought to have been necessary. The bank has apologised for the errors and 
offered an additional £100 compensation on top of the £75 its already paid. I think its likely 
Mr and Mrs L would always have made several applications for the BBL  as the first had a 
typo on the turnover figure, and there were system issues on Mr and Mrs Ls profiles which 
needed to be changed after the second application  therefore the third application would 
always have been submitted. 
Therefore, given the circumstances of the complaint, I think that the total of £175 now 
offered by Santander is fair compensation for the stress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs L 
were caused in having to make the two additional applications required due to the system 
issues that shouldve been resolved sooner.
I recognise Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision as they wanted more 
compensation. But based on what Ive seen, I think Santander has done enough to put 
things right - so I wont be asking it to do anything more
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs L a further £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the additional £100 - bringing the total 
compensation to £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman