DRN-4159069
The complaint
Mr N complains about pension advice given by G & E Wealth Management Ltd (GEWM). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr N had a pension fund with a pension provider Ill refer to as Firm A. Around 
November 2018, Mr N says he transferred around 75% of this into a cash-based fund as he
was nervous about market fluctuations and the fund losing money. Around November 2020
he transferred the remaining value into the cash-based fund.
Mr N says that, following a family members recommendation, he spoke to GEWM in
August 2021. He wanted advice as to which funds he was best to invest in as he was
concerned about the effect of inflation on his cash fund.
GEWM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ns circumstances and
objectives. This recorded that Mr N was:
61 years old, married and with no dependents;
Employed;
Had an annual income of £13,000;
Owned his home with no mortgage or other debt;
Had cash savings of around £88,000; and
Had another pension with a fund value of around £43,000 and two defined benefit
pensions which together would pay around £13,000 per year from age 65.
GEWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk (ATR) by asking a series of
scripted questions. The answers given by Mr N deemed him to have a cautious to moderate
ATR, or 2 out of 5. The meeting notes suggest that following a discussion around the 
concept of risk versus reward, Mr N agreed to be categorised as having a moderate ATR (3
out of 5).
Mr Ns priority was recorded as having a net income, joint with his wife, of £4,000 per month.
He was planning to fund this with employment and his cash savings for the next four years
as he slowed down the amount of work he was doing. And then, his pensions would aim to
fund this from the age of 65 when he planned to retire fully.
Following the fact-find, GEWM presented a recommendation to Mr N. It recommended his
pension remain with Firm A, but all of his funds be switched into a managed pension fund.
Mr N accepted this recommendation, and the funds were switched.
Mr N has said that his pension fund was worth about £496,000 at the time he transferred to
the new fund in November 2021. In January 2022, Mr N complained to GEWM about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. At this point the fund was worth around £370,000. He said 
the advice was unsuitable as it had exposed his pension fund to more risk than he was 
willing to take. He said he was getting close to retirement and didnt know how he could 
recoup these losses. His fund value has fallen further since.
GEWM didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said the advice to transfer to the new fund was
suitable for Mr N based on his ATR. GEWM offered Mr N some options of what he could do
now that his pension fund had fallen in value. Mr N has to date opted to leave the pension in
the advised fund in the hope that it recovers its value.
Mr N referred his complaint to our Service. An Investigator upheld the complaint. He thought
that the level of risk Mr N was being exposed to hadnt been fully explained to him. And, he
said that had GEWM properly considered the answers Mr N had given to the ATR questions,
and his previous actions with regards to this pension, then Mr N shouldve remained
categorised as a cautious to moderate investor rather than moderate. He also noted the
advised fund risk rating was at the high end of what would be considered moderate. The
Investigator set out how he felt things should be put right.
Mr N accepted this, but GEWM didnt. It said, in summary, that Mr N had previously invested
as a moderate risk investor and referred to how his pension had been invested prior to it
being transferred into cash. It disagreed that Mr N was a cautious to moderate investor and
felt Mr N should take responsibility for his decision to invest in the fund. It also disagreed
with the method our Investigator had used for redress in this complaint. Overall, GEWM
didnt think the complaint should be upheld and asked for an Ombudsman to review the
complaint. So it was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 May 2023. In this, I set out that I agreed that the 
complaint should be upheld. But I had points I wished to address in addition to our 
Investigator. And I felt that things should be put right in a different manner to that 
recommended by our Investigator. In this provisional decision, I said:
First, Id note that GEWM has responded in great detail making a number of points when
disagreeing with our Investigators opinion. I want to reassure GEWM that Ive thought about
all the points its raised. However, I wont address them all within my decision. That simply
reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux
of Mr Ns complaint  whether the pension fund recommended to him was suitable.
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr N, I have to consider it in
light of the information available when the advice was given, and not with the benefit of
hindsight. Its clear that Mr Ns pension has significantly fallen in value, and had it not done, 
its unlikely he would be unhappy. That said, I need to consider the overall suitability of the
advice at the time it was given.
Within the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a
regulated business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time GEWM advised Mr N were
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that regulated
businesses took reasonable steps to provide advice that was suitable for their
clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond
their investment objectives and risk profile.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments.
They are the same things that Ive thought about when deciding whether the advice
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding the
consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice, their
financial situation and their investment objectives.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The crux of Mr Ns complaint is that he thinks the fund he was advised to invest in was too
high risk for him and his ATR. So, that is the issue that Ive focussed my decision on.
Mr N has told us that hed sought advice following a discussion with a family member and he
was concerned that he was being too cautious and worried about the effect of inflation on his
pension. So, I think its fair to say Mr N was willing to increase the risk he was taking with his
pension.
Like our Investigator, I think that the pension fund recommended to Mr N was at the high end
of the spectrum of risk a moderate investor would be willing to take. I say this due to the high
proportion of equities, and low proportion of what are considered lower risk investments such
as bonds. And the fund provider rated it as 5 out of 7 from a volatility point of view. So, it
could be argued that this fund was in fact above the risk a moderate investor would likely be
willing to take. But I dont think I need to make a finding on this. Thats because, even if
I accept this fund was suitable for a moderate investor, I still think it was too high risk when
taking into account Mr Ns actual ATR and his capacity for loss. Ill explain why.
Mr N was asked to answer a number of questions by GEWM when it was assessing his
ATR. I wont repeat these questions here as its not disputed that the answers to these
questions suggested Mr N had a cautious to moderate attitude to risk - or 2 out of 5. Mr Ns
pension had previously all been held in cash funds.
The discussion around risk versus reward between GEWM and Mr N has been documented
in a file note. I think it was good practice for GEWM to discuss this with Mr N. And the file
note suggests the concept of risk versus reward was explained to Mr N. Following this
discussion, Mr N agreed he was willing to take a moderate risk with his pension (an ATR of 3
out of 5). But, there is no explanation of how or why Mr N decided he was now
comfortable with taking more risk following this discussion. I can understand that, following a
discussion about the potential increase in growth by taking more risk, Mr N may have been
motivated to do so. However, when assessing ATR, the entire picture of a consumers
circumstances need to be considered, including their capacity for loss. And I think GEWM
shouldve questioned Mr Ns motivation to change his ATR following this discussion and
ultimately advised against it.
In this case, Mr N had moved all of his pension into cash funds over the previous few years
with a view to reducing the risk of investment losses. This indicates someone who was
relatively averse to risk. And the answers from to the questionnaire designed to help assess
his ATR also suggests he was naturally very cautious and the thought of his pension fund
losing value worried him. For example, he agreed with the following statements in the risk
profile questionnaire:
To reach my financial goal I prefer an investment which is safe and grows slowly but
steadily, even if it means lower growth overall
I would prefer small certain gains to large uncertain ones
I want my investment money to be safe even if it means lower returns
Furthermore, Mr N planned to retire in less than four years and to go into a flexible
drawdown arrangement. Whilst the options of flexible drawdown did mean that a majority of
Mr Ns funds would remain invested beyond the four years when he retired, he still needed
to have sufficient funds in his pension to provide him with his desired retirement income in
the longer term. Taking greater risk with his fund exposed Mr N to not only the possibility of
investment growth, but also an increased risk of loss, and I cant see that GEWM made him
sufficiently aware of this. I also cant see that GEWM made Mr N sufficiently aware of theeffect that investment losses might have on his retirement plans.
I also note that, whilst the Personalised Risk Analysis report stated that Mr N had a
moderate attitude to risk, further on in this report it confirmed Mr N had a low capacity for
loss. This essentially confirmed that losses to the pension fund would have an impact on
Mr Ns retirement, which was only a few years away. So in my view, the recommended fund,
which involved a high proportion of equities, wasnt compatible with Mr Ns capacity for loss.
As Ive said, it wasnt wrong of the advisor here to further explain the relationship between
risk and reward so that Mr N had a better understanding. However, Ive seen that GEWM
provided Mr N with examples of how the recommended fund had performed compared to
where he was currently invested. And this showed he wouldve benefitted over the past
number of years from much increased growth. However, he was invested in cash funds, so
this isnt surprising. And there was no comparison showing the impact of a period of losses
or no growth on the fund value. I also think showing Mr N the higher level of growth he could
expect if he took more risk would likely have swayed Mr Ns thinking here. But as GEWM
should know, past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
This was Mr Ns main pension provision and what he was going to rely on most in his
retirement, which was only four years away. And overall, I dont think he had much capacity
for loss  certainly not the amount of loss that this fund exposed him to. Ultimately, I think
Mr N was essentially looking to take more risk to protect his funds against the effects of
inflation and achieve a steady level of growth. And he wasnt prepared, nor did he have the
capacity, to take a high risk to achieve this.
So, I think a fair assessment of Mr Ns ATR shouldve remained as cautious to moderate,
and I think GEWM shouldve advised him to invest in a fund in line with that ATR.
I understand GEWM says Mr N decided to increase the risk he wanted to take, but as Ive
said above, I think this wouldve likely been influenced by the performance charts he was
shown. It wasnt for GEWM to explain to Mr N how much risk he needed to take to achieve
his goals. Instead, it shouldve correctly assessed Mr Ns ATR and then recommended an
investment strategy that matched this. And if Mr N had genuinely wanted to take more risk
than GEWM thought was suitable for him, I wouldve expected GEWM to have clearly set out 
the risks associated with the level of risk it says he wanted to take and that doing so would 
be against its recommendation. However, it didnt do so.
GEWM has highlighted that Mr Ns pension was invested in a moderate risk fund previously.
Whilst this may be true, this cant be used to inform future advice. Circumstances and
financial objectives change over time, and the advice given should reflect the current
situation. And its clear to me that Mr N had become much more risk adverse over the years
leading up to this advice. In fact, in an email from Mr N to GEWM, Mr N described the
previous managed fund he was invested in as scary.
Overall, I think Mr N wouldve still taken more risk than he had with his pension fund invested
in cash. However, I think GEWM should have realised Mr N had a cautious to moderate
ATR rather than moderate and shouldve advised him on an investment strategy accordingly.
For the reasons set out above, I think the fund GEWM recommended was too high risk for
him and exposed his pension fund to more risk than he was willing to take. So Im going to
tell GEWM to compensate him for this.
Mr N should realise that had his pension been invested in a lower risk fund, this may still
show a reduction in fund value over the same period due to the poor market performance
during this time. And it will only be if the comparison shows less of a fall in value or an
increase that GEWM will need to compensate him.In response to our Investigators opinion, GEWM also made representations about the
redress set out by our Investigator. It said that if the advisor shouldnt have recommended
the fund they did, then a fund from the same provider with a lower risk profile wouldve been
recommended instead. GEWM has said this is a limited list of funds and the advisor can
confirm which funds wouldve been recommended. However, I think taking this approach
would be using the benefit of hindsight, and I dont think this is a fair way in which to
compensate Mr N. Overall, I think comparing the performance of Mr Ns pension with a
benchmark is a fair way of compensating Mr N for the unsuitable advice he received. This is
the way in which I would ask businesses to compensate customers in a similar position to
Mr N, and I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also set out how I thought things should be put right and I invited both parties to respond to 
my provisional decision.
Mr N accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
GEWM responded reiterating that it believed its advice was suitable and that Mr N ought to 
bear some reasonability for not raising any issues when the advice was first presented to 
him.
GEWM again confirmed that it disagreed with the manner in which I thought the redress 
ought to be calculated. In summary, GEWM said:
The benchmark Id suggested using within my provisional decision didnt reflect the 
position Mr N shouldve been in. 
It was possible to reasonably estimate which funds Mr N mightve invested in and 
provided a list of seven alternative funds and suggested I pick from these funds the 
fund with the lowest risk score, or one of the other funds as they had similar risk 
profiles.
If I chose not to pick from these funds, then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index should be the benchmark used as this would be a closer 
approximation to the level of risk Id determined Mr N should have taken.
That Mr N would have been invested in a mix of investments (including equities, 
bonds and cash) and that is reflected in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index, which is such a mix. He would not have had a separate bond 
investment delivering a totally different return. 
the methodology is totally at odds with how Mr N would have invested, which can be 
estimated with sufficient certainty. Using an index based on bonds would artificially 
insulate Mr N from losses he wouldve sustained and wouldnt result in a fair outcome 
 instead it gives Mr N a windfall.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to consider again and make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what GEWM has said in its response to my provisional decision. But this doesnt change my opinion that the complaint should be upheld, nor how matters 
should be put right. Ill address the points GEWM has made below. For clarity, my findings 
below and those findings made in my provisional decision (copied above) should be 
considered together as part of this final decision. 
Firstly, Ive thought about GEWMs points that it believes the advice was suitable and that 
Mr N ought to take some responsibility for not questioning the advice at the time. Ive already 
set out within my provisional decision why the advice wasnt suitable as above, and I wont 
repeat this here. And I see no reason why Mr N shouldve questioned the financial advice 
provided to him by a qualified professional advisor whose advice he was paying for at the 
time. GEWM set out that this was the right choice for Mr N, and I dont think it was for him to 
go away and find out whether this advice was correct or not - he was entitled to rely on it. It 
wasnt until the significant and quick drop in value of his pension fund that Mr N would likely 
have realised that this advice had placed him in a fund which exposed him to more risk than 
he was willing to accept.
Moving on to the method of redress. For the avoidance of doubt, the benchmarks Ive 
suggested are not what Im saying Mr N wouldve invested in. Instead, I consider this a fair 
and reasonable benchmark to use when assessing redress. 
As I explained within my provisional decision, picking an alternative fund would risk using the 
benefit of hindsight. Ultimately, GEWM had an opportunity to provide Mr N with a suitable 
investment recommendation, and it didnt do so. So, I dont think allowing GEWM the 
opportunity now to suggest what it thinks wouldve been a suitable alternative 
(notwithstanding the fact it disagrees with the outcome Ive reached) is a fair approach here. 
Using a benchmark what our Service considers to be the fair and reasonable way of 
compensating consumers like Mr N in a situation like this. And Im not persuaded there are 
reasonable grounds to depart from this benchmark in the circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. 
Ive thought about the point GEWM has made with regards to which benchmark should be 
used. Whilst I accept that the benchmark suggested by GEWM does have a mix of assets, 
Ive already explained why I think Mr N had a cautious to moderate ATR. And I think he 
shouldve been advised to invest in a mixture of assets including a higher proportion of 
bonds and fixed interest investments to reflect that. So, I think using a 50/50 split of the two 
benchmarks I set out in my provisionally decision is a reasonable recommendation here. 
Thats because it is a fair reflection of the investment strategy that I think someone with Mr 
Ns ATR shouldve been advised to take. So, I remain of the opinion that this is a fair method 
of compensation.
Overall, having thought about everything again, I think Mr N was provided with unsuitable 
advice, and GEWM should put things right. Ive set out again below how it should do so.    
Putting things right
Fair compensation
I think Mr N would have invested differently had GEWN given him suitable advice. As set out 
above, its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what 
Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.What must GEWM do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, GEWM must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
GEWM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, GEWM should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If GEWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75%
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr N £400 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. Our
Investigator thought £150 was a fair amount, but I don't agree. As set out above,
Mr N was clearly a very cautious person. And the investment recommended
exposed him to significantly more risk than he was willing to accept. This meant the
value of his main pension dropped a significant amount within just a few months and
continued to fall in value. I understand that this still hasn't recovered, so I think Mr N
has been caused significant distress by this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If GEWM deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. GEWM should give Mr N a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Standard 
Life Baillie 
Gifford 
Managed 
Pension 
fundStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, GEWM should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher
return.
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that
Mr N would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct G & E Wealth Management Ltd to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman