DRN-3450598
The complaint
Ms S complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted irresponsibly 
by granting her a loan that was unaffordable for her. Shes also raised concerns about how 
Madison has dealt with her when she made it aware that she was struggling to make her 
repayments.
What happened
In mid-2021, Ms S took out a loan with Madison for £1,000. It was to be paid off over 12 
months with repayments set at £111.19 meaning that Ms S was required to pay back a total 
of £1,334.28.
Ms S later complained to Madison that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She didnt believe it 
had carried out proper checks to ensure she could afford the loan. She thought that if it had, 
Madison would have seen she had a gambling problem. She also raised concerns about 
how Madison had dealt with her requests to reduce her repayments. She said shed emailed 
to explain her position, but it hadnt responded. The only time shed been able to get through 
to Madison by phone, she was on there for a long time and felt pressured to agree to pay the 
full instalment amounts.
Madison said it had asked Ms S a number of questions about her income and expenditure, 
personal circumstances and employment details when she applied for the loan. It also used 
reasonable average figures for income and expenditure and information from Ms Ss credit 
file. It said all the loan details were explained to Ms S and she was asked if the loan was 
affordable during the application process. Madison said it was satisfied it had acted correctly 
in approving Ms Ss loan application.
Madison said that it had recently set up a three month payment plan for £50 a month for    
Ms S. It acknowledged that there had been delays in responding to Ms Ss emails and live 
chat and in setting up the arrangement for her. Madison apologised for this but disagreed 
that Ms S was pressured into making a promise to pay amounts that she could not afford.
Madison offered Ms S £75 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in responding to her 
emails and setting up the payment arrangement. It asked that she contact Madison before 
her three month payment arrangement ended to discuss the best solution going forward.
Ms S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. She said her main 
concern was about the irresponsible lending. She was looking for a substantial reduction in 
interest being charged for the loan and a lower monthly repayment.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ss concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator concluded that the information Ms S had provided on her application along 
with what appeared on Madisons credit check indicated that the lending was affordable. She 
didnt think it would have been necessary for Madison to ask for bank statements or ought to 
have been aware of Ms Ss gambling.
Our investigator thought the £75 Madison had paid Ms S was fair compensation for the 
customer service issues shed experienced. She didnt think there was anything to suggest 
Madison had pressured Ms S into paying more than she could afford. She suggested Ms S 
contact Madison about another payment plan as it had said in the final response to her 
complaint.
Ms S disagreed with our investigators view. She said that she was in financial difficulties 
when she took out the loan and got the money within 20 minutes of applying for it. She didnt 
think Madison had done proper affordability checks. She said she had payday loans. She 
was paying them off to get further loans. She didnt think her credit rating was sufficient for 
Madison to have leant £1,000. Ms S said complaints shed made to other loan companies 
had been upheld with a drastically reduced balance with payment plans agreed. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Lending decision
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Ms S could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Ms S undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Ms S before it agreed the loan and also checked her 
credit file. On her application, Ms S gave her monthly income as £1,682. Madison used 
information provided by a credit reference agency to validate this. 
Ms S said her total monthly outgoings were £1,122 which consisted of £207 for 
mortgage/rent, £449 for unsecured credit and £465 for other. Ms S has told us that the 
other was made up of approximately £130 for food, £140 for utilities, £100 for council tax 
and £100 for a service charge on her flat.
Madison says it didnt solely rely on the income and expenditure figures Ms S had provided, 
it also used reasonable average figures. In addition to this Madison says it used credit 
expenditure amounts from Ms Ss credit file. 
The information from Ms Ss credit file indicated that her credit commitments were higher 
than shed stated on her application, at around £539 a month for loan repayments. She also 
had credit card debt of around £1,370. 
After taking into account Ms Ss existing credit commitments, the outgoings declared on her 
application and the repayments for the Madison loan, Ms S would have been left with a 
disposable income of almost £300 a month. So, I think it was reasonable for Madison to 
have concluded that the lending was affordable.Theres nothing else on Ms Ss credit file that I think should have given Madison cause for 
concern. There were no County Court Judgments. Although there were defaults showing on 
some of her accounts, none of these had been applied within the previous 12 months. Ms S 
has mentioned a reliance on payday loans. However, there were no recent payday loans 
showing on the credit file.
I appreciate Ms S feels that if Madison had done more thorough checks, it would have seen 
shed made gambling transactions. But Madison could only make its decision based on 
information it had available at the time. And I dont think proportionate checks would have 
extended to Madison asking Ms S to provide it with her bank statements. 
I think Madisons checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And 
these suggested the loan was affordable. So, I dont think Madison acted irresponsibly when 
it granted Ms S the loan.
Customer service
Madison has acknowledged delays in responding to Ms Ss emails and live chat messages, 
which meant it took almost four months to set up a payment arrangement.
Ms S has also commented that she felt pressured to make payments she couldnt afford. But 
Madison says the information she was given relates to its processes, which meant that it 
wasnt able to update her payment schedule. 
Its possible this wasnt explained to Ms S clearly enough. However, Madison did agree to 
set up a payment arrangement for Ms S and in its final response to her complaint, it advised 
her to contact it before the arrangement expired to discuss the best solution for her going 
forward. So, I think Madison has considered Ms Ss financial difficulties and has acted 
positively and sympathetically. And I think the £75 its paid Ms S is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced because of the customer service she received 
from Madison. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms S, but I dont require Madison to do anything 
further in respect of this complaint. However, I would like to remind Madison of its duty to 
continue to treat Ms S positively and sympathetically if she is still experiencing financial 
difficulties.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman