DRN-2889543
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Ts director, Mr T, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In March 2020, T applied for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL)  but it didnt 
receive any update on the application for some time. Around seven weeks later, in May, the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme was introduced. As a result of the new Scheme, HSBC said a 
CBIL was no longer appropriate for T. So, it now had to apply for a Bounce Back Loan  
which it did on 4 May. The funds were drawn down shortly after, on 14 May.
 
Mr T was unhappy with how HSBC had handled Ts requests for borrowing, so he 
complained. He said, as a result of HSBCs delays, T had been obliged to borrow money 
from elsewhere at a high interest rate - costing T around £900, which Mr T wanted HSBC to 
cover.
  
HSBC apologised for the delay. It said it had received unprecedented demand, which meant 
applications had taken longer than expected. The bank also paid T £150 compensation for 
the inconvenience.
Mr T remained unhappy, as he thought delays on HSBCs part were the reason T had to 
borrow at a high interest rate. So he referred the complaint to our service and it was 
considered by one of our investigators.
 
The investigator agreed that Ts application had taken longer than it was entitled to expect. 
But HSBC had offered T a further £150 compensation since the complaint had been referred 
to our service, making a total of £300  and he thought this was a fair way to put things right. 
He didnt think HSBC should pay the cost T said it incurred because of high-interest 
borrowing, because it hadnt been sufficiently evidenced. So, he didnt ask HSBC to take any 
further action.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator. He reiterated that, if HSBC had been more efficient, T 
wouldnt have incurred costs by having to borrow from elsewhere at such a high interest 
rate. Further, Mr T didnt think T had been compensated for the banks broken promises  or 
the stress and anxiety its actions had caused.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator  and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
 
HSBC has accepted that  on occasion  things took longer than expected with Ts 
applications. And, from what Ive seen, Id agree that T was subject to some delays. Much 
was around arranging a CBIL initially, and Im also aware there were some complications 
when T tried to apply online for a Bounce Back Loan. While I acknowledge the bank 
wouldve faced its own operational challenges, I think its fair to say Ts application took 
longer than expected.
 
As a result of the delays, Mr T holds HSBC responsible for his business having to borrow on 
credit cards and take out a loan from a third-party provider  at a high interest rate  to cover 
its commitments. And hes set out that, if HSBC had acted more efficiently, T wouldnt have 
had to take such steps.
One of the primary commitments was for an update and redesign of Ts website. Mr T has 
said he had to postpone the urgent changes because of HSBCs delays. And hes provided 
evidence of a discussion with a web developer who would carry out the work  which 
includes confirmation on 27 May that an interim payment would be made soon.
 
Ts Bounce Back Loan was drawn down on 14 May. So, at the time of Mr Ts discussion with 
the web developer, it had access to those funds and couldve used them to cover the cost. 
Ive not seen anything to show T had to pay for the website using credit cards or the high-
interest loan it says it obtained, or that it incurred an avoidable cost by not making payment 
any earlier. So, with that in mind, Im not persuaded HSBCs delays led to any unnecessary 
costs regarding Ts website.
 
Mr T has also said his business still had to meet its commitments to suppliers  alongside its 
general running costs. Our investigator asked Mr T to evidence the costs T incurred at the 
time, showing that it had no option but to pay for them with the high-interest borrowing. 
But, from what Ive seen, he hasnt done so.
 
It follows that I cant safely conclude T did use other funds to meet its commitments or  if it 
did  at what cost. And nor can I be certain that any costs were incurred as a result of an 
unreasonable delay on HSBCs part. Ive no doubt the impact of the pandemic to Mr T and 
his business made for a very difficult and challenging time. And I dont intend to give the 
impression that I think otherwise. But based on what I have, without supporting evidence, I 
cant fairly agree that the bank should be liable for the costs T says it incurred.
As Ive set out above, HSBC has acknowledged T suffered some delay. Its now offered a 
total of £300 compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused and, in the circumstances, I 
agree thats fair. T clearly had to do more than shouldve been necessary to chase things up, 
and that wouldve put it through some inconvenience at an already difficult time. So, I think 
its right that the bank has increased its offer  and I consider it to be a fair and reasonable 
way of resolving this complaint.
My final decisionHSBC UK Bank Plc has now made an offer that I think is fair in all the circumstances. So, my 
decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle the 
complaint as it has offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman