DRN-4335181
The complaint
Mr J and Ms W have complained about the amount West Bay Insurance Plc has paid in 
settlement of a claim under Ms Ws Agricultural Vehicle insurance policy. Mr J is a named 
driver on the policy and the owner of the vehicle which is the subject of the claim.
 
Mr J and Miss W are represented by Miss P.
What happened
Mr Js vehicle was damaged in an accident in July 2022. West Bays repairer estimated the 
cost of repairing it to be around £12,000. So, West Bay decided to treat it as a total loss. 
Initially, West Bay offered a settlement based on a market value of £12,568. Mr J and Ms W 
rejected this offer and West Bay made a new offer based on a market value of £13,764. Mr J 
and Ms W rejected this offer. So West Bay made a final offer based on a market value of 
£15,250. West Bay paid the settlement amount due after the deduction of the policy excess 
of £14,900 direct to Mr J. 
Mr J and Ms W complained about the settlement amount, as they thought the market value 
of the vehicle was much higher. They also complained about the fact West Bay had paid the 
settlement amount to Mr J and not used it to clear the finance on his vehicle. 
West Bay issued two final response letters. On the complaint about the market value it said it 
was satisfied it had paid the right amount. On the complaint about the payment being made 
direct to Mr J it said it had carried out an HPI check in July 2022 and this had not identified 
any finance on the vehicle. And it said  in view of this - it was satisfied it had followed the 
right procedure.
Mr J and Ms W asked us to consider their complaint. One of our investigators did this. He 
said that what West Bay had paid in settlement was fair, so he didnt think it needed to 
increase it. On the payment going direct to Mr J, he said he didnt think West Bay needed to 
compensate Mr J as he could have settled the finance himself when he got the settlement 
amount from West Bay. 
Miss P had also raised a further point about West Bays handling of the claim, in that it 
hadnt obtained CCTV footage of the accident giving rise to it. Even though this was not part 
of Mr J and Ms Ws original complaint to us or something theyd complained to West Bay 
about prior to coming to us, the investigator said West Bay did try to obtain the CCTV 
footage, but couldnt as it was only available for seven days.
Mr J called us in August 2023 to say he wasnt happy with our investigators view on his 
complaint and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws policy says that if the insured vehicle is classed as a total loss West Bay should 
base its settlement on the Market Value. This is defined as The cost of replacing your 
vehicle, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition.
We usually use independent trade guides to get the replacement cost of a vehicle at the time 
it was damaged. And we expect insurers to do the same and come up with a fair valuation 
by doing this. We do also consider adverts for similar vehicles and  while we dont place as 
much weight on these as we do on the guides, we do think they can be a good indicator of 
whether the guides are correct. And, in some instances, they can show that all or some of 
the guides are wrong.
I dont think West Bays approach to this claim was appropriate in the first instance. I say this 
because it seems it had two valuations from the guides and based its first offer on the lower 
one. It did then increase its offer to an average of the two guide values. And it eventually 
increased it to a figure higher than both the guide values it had at this time. But, I dont think 
it should have based its settlement on the lowest of the valuation guides in the first instance, 
without doing more research to check this was correct. And I suspect if it had done more 
research and looked at adverts, it would have discovered the lower valuation was very likely 
to be incorrect. However, it did at least get to what I consider to be a fair valuation in the end. 
Turning to the final valuation itself. It seems by the time it submitted its file to us West Bay 
had a third valuation from a guide we use. This guide provided a value of £16,425. I have 
also checked this guide and it has provided a valuation of £15,302 with adverts for similar 
vehicles supporting this. The valuation I obtained from this guide is different to the ones 
West Bay and our investigator obtained because the guide in question refreshes its data. 
This means the valuation it has provided recently is more likely to reflect what similar 
vehicles were selling for in July 2022 when Mr Js vehicle was damaged. Ive also checked 
another guide which has provided a valuation of around £16,000. 
This means that the final valuation West Bay used was near the higher end of the guides 
and it is supported by adverts. So, I think it is fair; and I see no reason to make it increase it. 
Ive considered the representations made by Ms P and Mr J and Ms W and the adverts 
theyve provided, which they have suggested are for similar vehicles. However, these arent 
dated, nor do they show a mileage. And they are for a newer model than Mr Js vehicle, 
albeit from the same year of manufacture. So, they dont alter my view that the value       
West Bay used in the end was fair. 
Ive also considered Mr J and Ms Ws complaint about West Bay settling with Mr J direct 
instead of settling the finance on his vehicle. Ive not seen the HPI check West Bay carried 
out, as it did not provide it as part of its evidence as far as I can see. But I have no reason to 
doubt the fact it carried it out. So, its odd that the finance didnt come up on it. But, 
assuming West Bay did do it, there wasnt any reason for it to think there was finance on the 
vehicle. And this means it was reasonable for it to settle with Mr J direct. And, even if I 
thought West Bay had made a mistake with the HPI check, I wouldnt uphold Mr J and       
Ms Ws complaint about its failure to settle the finance, as when Mr J got the settlement 
amount I think it is reasonable to say he should have realised West Bay hadnt settled the 
finance and that he needed to do so.
Ive not considered Mr J and Ms Ws issue with West Bay not obtaining the CCTV footage, 
as it wasnt part of their complaint to us or West Bay. But I hope what our investigator said 
on it has reassured them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr J and Ms Ws 
complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman