DRN-3684345
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society discriminated against him because it wouldnt 
allow him to apply for an unsecured personal loan as he was 80 years old. He also 
complains Nationwide Building Society should have considered his application on the merits, 
including data hed provided about average life expectancy when compared to the term of 
the loan hed applied for.
What happened
Mr M took out a Nationwide loan in September 2019 part of which was used to repay an 
existing loan. He was 78 at the time and would have been repaying the loan he took out until 
he was 83 had he repaid it over the intended five years. In fact, he decided to make 
overpayments meaning that by September 2021 he was on track to repay the loan in three 
years rather than five years.
In October 2021, Mr M moved house and decided it would be helpful to take out a loan to 
cover expected and unexpected costs. He tried to apply for another Nationwide loan  he did 
so online  but wasnt able to submit an application. He says an error message appeared 
stating applicants must be between 18 and 80. He was 80 at the time of the application.
Mr M contacted Nationwide saying that its website said applicants for loans needed to be 
aged between 18 and 80 which he was. So, he thought thered been a mistake and asked 
to be accepted on the basis that he was 80. Nationwide said that there hadnt been a 
mistake, and that applicants must be aged 18 to 79. Nationwide said that it couldnt offer a 
loan to anyone aged 80 or above.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr M complained saying that he thought it was 
discriminating against him based on his age. Hes told us that hes aware other banks lend to 
people who are over 80, presumably those with good records. He said that Nationwide ought 
to consider his circumstances  including the fact that hed been a customer for over 20 
years with an exemplary credit file. He said he thought Nationwide was more likely to have 
problems with younger, employed people making repayments than retired people with 
guaranteed income.
Nationwide investigated Mr Ms complaint and said that it wasnt able to offer a loan to 
anyone who was 80 or over and that there was nothing more it could do to assist him. Mr M 
remained unhappy, so he complained to us. He said that if hed not made the overpayments 
hed made, he would have had spare funds to cover the expected and unexpected costs of 
moving house. So, he proposed that Nationwide reverse the overpayments hed made as an 
alternative to giving him a new loan.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and asked Nationwide to provide 
evidence in confidence that it had carried out a risk assessment that would justify taking a 
blanket approach to lending to applicants over a certain age. Nationwide did so. Having 
considered everything, including evidence shared with us in confidence, our investigator said 
that they didnt think what had happened was fair and reasonable in Mr Ms particular case. 
So, our investigator recommended that Nationwide consider a loan application, effectively 
putting him back into the position he would have been had he not made overpayments. Our 
investigator didnt think Nationwide had applied its age limits incorrectly, and that saying 
applicants had to be between 18 and 80 was the same as saying applicants had to be aged 
18 to 79.
Mr M thought the outcome recommended by our investigator was fair even though he didnt 
agree with all of their findings  including their findings about whether or not Nationwide had 
applied its age limits correctly. He said that statistics showed he has a life expectancy of 89 
 considerably longer than the five-year loan hed applied for  and that he was fit and active 
and had all his faculties. He also said both he and his wife had very good credit ratings. So, 
he thought Nationwide should have considered his application on that basis.
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators recommendations saying that the previous 
loan Mr M had taken out was in line with its lending policy and that the recommendation our 
investigator had made was outside of its systems capabilities and lending policy. Nationwide 
also said that its systems have no workarounds to allow for what our investigator had 
recommended. In addition, Nationwide said that its policy had been in place for several 
years so Mr M could have checked this when he decided to repay their original loan early.
Finally, Nationwide said that the restriction in its policy had been arrived at through a 
thorough assessment of the customer outcomes and credit risks of lending to individuals 
over the cap. As Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, this 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman to look into. So, thats what Ive done.
I issued a provisional decision last month in which it said I didnt think Nationwide hadnt 
acted fairly and reasonably. I said that I thought Nationwide should pay Mr M £500 in 
compensation and should consider an application from Mr M for lending, should he wish to 
make one, and that it should disregard his age when considering that application. 
Alternatively, I said that Nationwide might decide to reverse the overpayments hed made as 
an alternative to giving him a new loan.
Mr M was happy with my provisional decision and accepted it. Nationwide didnt agree with 
my provisional decision or my reasoning. It said that although the data it had used was from 
some time ago, it was the most recent data it has because it hasnt permitted personal loan 
applicants aged 80 and over since 2010. And it clearly showed a higher default risk among 
applicants aged 80 and over. Nationwide said that this was, therefore, the best data 
available and that the conclusions it had drawn were broadly consistent with other lenders. 
And that the passage of time is no reason to doubt the probity of the data, particularly when 
aligned to national mortality data. Nationwide said, in particular, that for applicants aged 80 
and over there is a heightened risk of the term of the loan not being sustainable given life 
expectancy, affordability varying significantly over the entire term of the loan and the 
applicant being affected (or more affected) by age related conditions. Nationwide also said 
that there are a number of other lending criteria it applies, and that if I said it should consider 
a further application from Mr M then I should make it clear that I did not intend to override 
any other aspect of its lending criteria unrelated to age or compel it to lend to Mr M. 
Nationwide also said it wasnt willing to refund the overpayments Mr M had made  as an 
alternative to considering a further application from him. I know this is Mr Ms preferred 
solution, but its not something Im going to ask Nationwide to do in light of its response to 
this provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Last month I issued a provisional decision saying as follows:
This complaint isnt about whether or not Nationwide should have ultimately lent to Mr M. 
Banks and building societies can and do decide whether or not they want to lend to people 
who apply for borrowing, and they do so based on criteria that, amongst other things, look at 
whether or not the lending would be affordable and responsible. This complaint is, as far as I 
see it, that Nationwide didnt even get to that stage with Mr M  it didnt consider his 
individual circumstances at all. Thats because it wouldnt even consider an application from 
him as he was 80 when he applied for the loan.
Mr M accepts that sometimes people are discriminated against because of their age  and 
that many businesses wont lend to customers who are over 80. But he believes he wasnt 
outside the age range of customers to whom Nationwide has said it will lend  because he 
was 80 at the time and not over 80  and he sent us a screenshot of Nationwides website at 
the time that says applicants must be between 18 and 80.
On the question of whether or not Nationwide applied its age limits correctly, I dont agree 
with Mr M. I say that because Im satisfied Nationwides policy is that it will only lend to 
people between the age of 18 and 80. Nationwide has told us that the application system will 
allow applicants from the day of turning 18 until the day before turning 80  as this reflects 
their 18 to 79 eligibility criteria  and that applications from anyone who applies on their 80th 
birthday or later will error as theyd be outside of the eligibility range. Nationwide has told us 
that this is also the case for under 18s. Mr M does, however, have a second argument, 
namely that his application wasnt considered on its merits. Or, to put it another way, that 
Nationwide has a blanket policy of not lending to customers who are 80 or over and one on 
the face of it that discriminates against him because of his age.
Age discrimination isnt necessarily wrong or unfair in itself. Nationwide wont, for 
example, lend to anyone who is under the age of 18. But as entering / attempting to enter 
into a contract with a minor  in other words, someone under the age of 18  is problematic 
in a number of ways, many might not see refusing to lend to someone who is under the age 
of 18 as wrong or unfair. So, are there reasons why it might not have been unfair or 
unreasonable of Nationwide to say it wouldnt lend to Mr M simply because he was already 
80?
In this case, one thing I have to take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable 
is relevant law. And in this case that means taking into account, amongst other things, the 
Equality Act 2010, so I think itd be helpful to set out what that says.
Section 29 of the Equality Act 2010 says a service provider must not discriminate against 
someone based on a protected characteristic  age is one of nine protected characteristics 
given  such discrimination is unlawful. There are, however, exceptions applicable to this 
particular case, and they are contained in schedule 3  part 5  paragraph 20A. This is what 
paragraph 20A says:
(1) A person (A) does not contravene section 29, so far as relating to age discrimination, 
by doing anything in connection with the provision of a financial service.
(2) Where A conducts an assessment of risk for the purposes of providing the financial 
service to another person (B), A may rely on sub-paragraph (1) only if the 
assessment of risk, so far as it involves a consideration of B's age, is carried out by 
reference to information which is relevant to the assessment of risk and from a 
source on which it is reasonable to rely.
(3) In this paragraph, financial service includes a service of a banking, credit, insurance, personal pension, investment or payment nature.
Even if Nationwide cannot show that it can rely on the exception, it could still show that its 
decision not to lend to customers aged 80 and over is not unlawful discrimination if it can 
show it is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim (section 13(2) of the Act, 
assuming its direct discrimination, which this must otherwise be).
Nationwide isnt disputing that it has a policy that it wont lend to customers who are 80 or 
over when they apply for a loan. So, I agree with our investigator that in order to decide 
whether or not it was fair and reasonable of Nationwide to not even consider Mr Ms 
application that its important to know whether or not this policy is based on the type of risk 
assessment mentioned in (2) above. Nationwide has shared the assessment it says it did 
before adopting this policy  in confidence at our suggestion  which has been very helpful.
Under our rules, I have the power to accept evidence in confidence so that only a summary 
of it is disclosed  where, for example, that evidence is commercially sensitive. Im satisfied 
that its appropriate for me to do so in this case. The evidence Nationwide has provided 
shows that it analysed lending granted before 2010, and its analysis shows an increased 
rate of default in customers aged 80 and above but not necessarily when compared to 
customers under the age of 60. This is the risk assessment it carried out. It went on to 
explain that it was concerned that there was a greater risk of default for borrowers in this age 
group because of affordability, life expectancy and health factors.
The reasons Nationwide have given for its policy would, in my opinion, be enough to show 
that a policy of not lending to someone who is 80 or over isnt unfair or unreasonable. I agree 
with our investigator, however, that the assessment Nationwide has sent us doesnt back up 
the reasons its given us for its policy. I say that because the data in the risk assessment is 
old, and the number of borrowers aged 80 or over included in the sample is likely to be too 
small to be statistically significant.
In other words, I agree that Nationwide appears to be making assumptions about someones 
ability to repay and the risk of lending without showing that it has done a risk assessment 
based on information relevant to the risk from a source on which it is reasonable to rely. I 
also agree with our investigator in this case that without more Nationwide appears to be 
making assumptions about someones ability to repay and the risk of lending simply based 
on that persons age.
Nationwide might have a legitimate aim here, but it hasnt provided us with information to 
support its argument that its blanket approach of not allowing potential customers to apply 
for a loan because theyre 80 or over when they apply for a loan is a proportionate means of 
achieving that aim. It doesnt follow that Nationwide has discriminated on the grounds of age 
just because the exception might not apply. I should add that we cant make a finding that 
Nationwide has breached the Equality Act 2010  thats the role of the Courts. But given 
what Ive just said, and based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that 
Nationwide didnt act fairly or reasonably when it refused to even consider Mr Ms application 
because he was already 80.
In this particular case, the rigour of the assessment isnt the only reason why I think 
Nationwide hasnt acted fairly or reasonably. In this case, Mr M was able to take out a 
Nationwide loan which  had he not made overpayments  he would have carried on 
repaying until he was over 83 because he was under 80 at the time of the application. That 
loan was taken out in line with Nationwides lending policy  which hasnt according to 
Nationwide changed since then. Nationwides policy, in other words, focusses on how old 
the applicant is at the time they take out the loan rather than how old theyll be when the loan 
ends. It means a 79 year old could take out a 7 year loan that they would be paying back until they were 86 but an 80 year old couldnt take out a 3 year loan that they would be 
paying back until they were 83 even if all of their other circumstances were absolutely 
identical. Yet Nationwides analysis would suggest thered be greater risk of the first 
applicant (whod be able to get a loan) defaulting than the second applicant (who wouldnt be 
able to get a loan). It also means that Nationwide decided three years ago that it was fine 
from an affordability and responsibility point of view to agree to Mr M taking out a loan that 
hed continue to repay until he was 83. Mr M has asked to be put back into that position  in 
other words, has asked Nationwide to take on a level of lending it was previously happy to 
take on. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable, in this particular case.
Nationwide has made the point that a decision to lend is never guaranteed, and the fact that 
it was prepared to lend to Mr M until he was 83 three years ago doesnt mean it would do so 
now. I agree entirely with Nationwide on this point. And Im not saying Nationwide has to 
now lend to Mr M. As I mentioned above, this complaint isnt about whether or not 
Nationwide should have ultimately lent to Mr M. Banks and building societies can and do 
decide whether or not they want to lend to people who apply for borrowing, and they do so 
based on criteria that, amongst other things, look at whether or not the lending would be 
affordable and responsible. This complaint is about the fact that Nationwide didnt even 
consider his application.
Mr M says that he moved house despite not getting the loan and that although the higher 
rent they ended up paying was offset by a huge reduction in heating costs, it meant that 
finances were tighter than they might otherwise have been. Hes told us that he was able to 
move thanks to family and that he wanted and planned to pay them back within months. 
Hes also told us that hes paying another company a regular amount each month having 
done a balance transfer. His circumstances might, therefore, have changed and its possible 
that Nationwide wouldnt be willing to lend to him anymore. But thats for Nationwide to 
determine should Mr M decide to go ahead and apply for a loan.
In this particular case, I do think Nationwide has caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. 
And for that I feel an award of £500 is appropriate. I also think its fair and reasonable that 
Nationwide should consider an application from Mr M for lending, should he wish to make 
one, and that it should disregard his age when considering that application. Nationwide 
might, in light of Mr Ms circumstances, decline that loan on the grounds of affordability or 
responsibility. To be clear, Im not telling Nationwide to lend money to Mr M, and Im only 
telling Nationwide to consider an application from Mr M (should he wish to make one) 
because of the unusual facts of this case. That application might, given what Nationwide has 
told us about its systems, have to be done manually. Alternatively, Nationwide might decide 
to reverse the overpayments hed made as an alternative to giving him a new loan.
Nationwide in its response to my provisional decision said that it wanted me to make it clear 
that I wasnt intending to override any aspect of its lending criteria unrelated to age or to 
compel Nationwide to lend to Mr M. I thought Id made that clear in the following two 
paragraphs of my provisional decision:
Nationwide has made the point that a decision to lend is never guaranteed, and the 
fact that it was prepared to lend to Mr M until he was 83 three years ago doesnt 
mean it would do so now. I agree entirely with Nationwide on this point. And Im not 
saying Nationwide has to now lend to Mr M. As I mentioned above, this complaint 
isnt about whether or not Nationwide should have ultimately lent to Mr M. Banks and 
building societies can and do decide whether or not they want to lend to people who 
apply for borrowing, and they do so based on criteria that, amongst other things, look 
at whether or not the lending would be affordable and responsible. This complaint is 
about the fact that Nationwide didnt even consider his application.And:
Mr M says that he moved house despite not getting the loan and that although the 
higher rent they ended up paying was offset by a huge reduction in heating costs, it 
meant that finances were tighter than they might otherwise have been. Hes told us 
that he was able to move thanks to family and that he wanted and planned to pay 
them back within months. Hes also told us that hes paying another company a 
regular amount each month having done a balance transfer. His circumstances 
might, therefore, have changed and its possible that Nationwide wouldnt be willing 
to lend to him anymore. But thats for Nationwide to determine should Mr M decide to 
go ahead and apply for a loan.
But Im happy to make it clear that this decision does not intend to override any aspect of 
Nationwides lending criteria unrelated to age or to compel Nationwide to lend to Mr M. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable that Nationwide should 
consider an application from Mr M for lending, should he wish to make one, and that it 
should disregard his age when considering that application. And, as I also said, Nationwide 
might, in light of Mr Ms circumstances, decline that loan on the grounds of affordability or 
responsibility. Also, as I said in my provisional decision, and again to be clear, Im not telling 
Nationwide to lend money to Mr M, and Im only telling Nationwide to consider an application 
from Mr M (should he wish to make one) because of the unusual facts of this case. And 
finally, again as I said in my provisional decision, that application might, given what 
Nationwide has told us about its systems, have to be done manually.
As should be obvious by now, Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional 
decision having considered everything Nationwide has said. But Ive started by making it 
clear that although Ive come to the same conclusion that doesnt mean  as Nationwide 
clearly was worried I might have meant  that Im telling it to lend to Mr M. Quite the 
opposite. Im simply asking Nationwide to consider an application from Mr M (should he wish 
to make one). 
As I said in my provisional decision, Nationwide said that in addition to carrying out a risk 
assessment it was concerned that there was a greater risk of default for borrowers aged 80 
and above because of affordability, life expectancy and health factors. And I agree that those 
reasons would, in my opinion, be enough to show that a policy of not lending to someone 
who is 80 and above isnt unfair or unreasonable. But the risk assessment weve been sent 
in confidence doesnt back this up. It shows, for example, an increased rate of default in 
customers aged 80 and above  as Nationwide says  but not when compared to customers 
under the age of 60. Nothing Nationwide has added since my provisional decision suggests 
to me that I was wrong to say that the assessment Nationwide has sent us doesnt back up 
the reasons its given us for its policy.
Given the above, I remain of the view that Nationwide appears to be making assumptions 
about someones ability to repay and the risk of lending without showing that it has done a 
risk assessment based on information relevant to the risk from a source on which it is 
reasonable to rely. And that without more Nationwide appears to be making assumptions 
about someones ability to repay and the risk of lending simply based on that persons age. I 
also remain of the view that Nationwide might have a legitimate aim here, but it hasnt 
provided us with information to support its argument that its blanket approach of not allowing 
potential customers to apply for a loan because theyre 80 or over when they apply for a loan 
is a proportionate means of achieving that aim. It doesnt follow that Nationwide has 
discriminated on the grounds of age just because the exception might not apply. And, in any 
event, as I said in my provisional decision, we cant make a finding that Nationwide has 
breached the Equality Act 2010  thats the role of the Courts. But given what Ive just said, and based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that Nationwide didnt act 
fairly or reasonably when it refused to even consider Mr Ms application because he was 
already 80.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to awarded Mr M £500 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. I remain of the view that this is fair and 
reasonable. So thats the award Im going to make in addition to requiring Nationwide to 
consider an application from Mr M for lending, should he wish to make one, and disregarding 
his age when considering that application.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr M £500 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. In addition, Nationwide Building 
Society should consider an application from Mr M for lending, should he wish to make one, 
and should disregard his age when considering that application. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman