DRN-3645811
The complaint
Mr O complains about the alteration of his Basic bank account to a Classic account which he 
says happened without his consent.
Mr O also complains that the initial overdraft he got he never applied for and the subsequent 
limit increases ought not to have been approved for him due to his past financial history.
What happened
Mr O commenced his complaint with Lloyds Bank in January 2022 but received no response 
and so sent a second complaint letter in February 2022.
The heart of Mr Os complaint has several elements to it. The first part is that he says the 
account was upgraded without his consent.
The second part is that the new account gave him an overdraft which was not good news for 
him.
The third part is that with his bad credit history, having access to the new account which 
allowed him to apply for credit in the form of an overdraft, meant that he was allowed to get 
to a £2,500 credit limit which he used and now he cant pay it back. He says this was 
irresponsible lending by Lloyds.
Mr O says that he has been treated unfairly. He was given 30 days where the account was 
frozen to pay off the overdraft but that was not enough. The account has closed now.
The bank has explained that it responded with its formal final response letter (FRL) to Mr Os 
complaint in May 2022.
In its submission to us Lloyds has summarised the background to the account history.
The Basic account Mr O had was due to be upgraded. Lloyds told us that it monitors basic 
account holders usage and will upgrade accounts when it considers a customer merits one.
Lloyds wrote to Mr O in May 2021 to explain that his account was going to be upgraded on 
26 July 2021 giving Mr O time and the opportunity to contact Lloyds if he did not want that 
upgrade. The account was upgraded to a Classic account on 26 July 2021.
Mr O received a £500 overdraft. Mr O says he did not apply for this. This overdraft was in 
place in August 2021.
After that Mr O applied for some credit limit increases. In the final response letter Lloyds 
said:
Lloyds originally gave Mr O a Basic bank account due to his credit history at the time
When reviewing Mr Os credit file, as the historic adverse information had been 
removed by 2021 (after six years had passed) and the fact Mr O had been managing 
the Basic account well, then it considered that a Classic account would suit him.
The £500 overdraft facility was not automatically applied to the new Classic account. 
Mr O applied for it on 24 August 2021
Mr O applied for the credit limits to be increased and Lloyds considered these were 
approved and done responsibly
Mr O had the option to remove the arranged overdraft either with the consolidation loan 
he obtained from Lloyds in September 2021 or through the other funds he obtained 
from another lender. But Mr O chose not to do that.
The account had been closed and a default had been applied to the account in the 
correct way. The account was sold to a third party.
Mr Os overdraft was increased to £2,500 and from December 2021 he was sent letters from 
Lloyds to say that he was over his limit and later he was informed that its collections team 
were handling his account.
Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in May 2022. That was 
soon after Lloyds had informed Mr O that his bank account had been assigned with a debt 
balance of £2,580.46 to a third party.
The account is closed with Lloyds. 
After Mr O had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in May 2022, 
one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint in August 2022. He did not think that Lloyds 
had acted irresponsibly in approving the overdraft and limit increase application. He came to 
the view that the checks they carried out before giving Mr O the overdraft and limit increases 
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
Mr O disagreed. He has written to us with many submissions. These listed below relate to 
what he said after our adjudicators view.
Mr O was concerned that we had not looked at the complaint properly as he did not think 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service had gathered all the information he felt we needed to 
be able to look at it.
Mr O sent to us a copy of the Final Response Letter which we already had but maybe Mr O 
did not know that. Mr O pointed out that he had had the Basic account for many years and 
those sorts of accounts were given to people with poor credit and at the time he had poor 
credit. He has said that he had County Court Judgments (CCJs) in the past and other unpaid 
debts.
Mr O has said that the bank account statements would have shown thousands of pounds 
being spent on transactions relating to betting and gaming. He said he used all his wages 
some months on these transactions.
Mr O said that he has lots of current CCJs. And he had mortgage arrears, council tax arrears 
and poor payment with gas and electric bills.
Mr O said that these gambling payments over twenty years using his Basic account would 
have been seen by Lloyds. And his bad credit with CCJs and Court Orders against his name 
leads him to pose the question whether Lloyds approval of the overdraft limits was 
responsible lending  which is the heart of Mr Os complaint. Mr O had assumed that our adjudicator had not seen the bank statements for the Basic 
account, but in fact he had received them from Lloyds going back to March 2018.
Mr O has pointed out that the overdraft facility went from £0 to £2,500 in 28 days. Mr O says 
that his request for a loan to pay off his overdraft was refused.
Mr O disagrees strongly with the idea that Lloyds have lent to him responsibly. He thinks 
Lloyds had a duty of care to extend to him.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I make it clear that this decision deals with the 
overdraft issues only and not any complaint Mr O may have about his credit card or any 
loans.
After I had reviewed Mr Os complaint in August 2022, I asked Lloyds to send me details of 
all of the issues Mr O had raised, including what it knew of his credit history, information on 
the declined loan Mr O says was refused by Lloyds, and information surrounding the 
procedure it went through before approving an overdraft. We had received most of the 
information that was needed already but additional details were requested by me and 
I received them.
On 19 August 2022, through our adjudicator, I asked Mr O to send us details of the items he 
has said were relevant to the complaint, such as details of his arrears, his CCJs and his 
other bad debts. Mr O had given us the impression he may have current bad credit history.
Mr O asked for additional time to send these details. Our adjudicator suggested he send us 
a copy of his credit file. Mr O has been given several extensions of time but nothing has 
been received from him. It seems that this may well be historic debt records that Mr O is 
trying to find and send to us. So that may be the reason we have not got it.
I refered to the evidence in the provisional decision I issued on 11 October 2022 and gave 
both parties one month to respond. 
Lloyds has not responded to my provisional decision as as the outcome was a non-uphold 
I would not necessarily expect it to. It submitted all it wished to submit before I issued my 
provisional decision. 
Mr O has replied to say that he accepts all I have said except for that part relating to the 
assignment of the overdraft debt to a third party which has resulted in a default being added 
to his credit file. He says this needs to be addressed by me and he wants the default 
removed. He confirms that he is receiveing advice from a volunteer organisation which I am 
glad to hear. 
For ease of reading I set out in the next section the provisional decision in full (in smaller 
type to differentiate it), followed by my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision findings dated 11 October 2022. 
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying overdraft charges. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.An arranged overdraft is a fixed borrowing limit, agreed in advance, which allows the consumer to 
spend up to that limit, through all the usual payment methods. This will usually be at a cost, either 
through a fixed monthly or daily fee whilst the account is overdrawn, and/or interest charged on the 
overdrawn balance.
The questions I ask myself when considering a complaint of this nature are: Did the lender carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower would be able to repay any 
credit in a sustainable way? If so, was a fair lending decision made? If not, what would such checks 
more likely than not have shown?
Having carefully considered everything provided, I have provisionally decided that Lloyds acted fairly 
when it approved Mr Os overdraft facility in August and September 2021. And that it acted correctly 
when refusing further credit limit increases in September 2021, and November 2021 and 
January 2022. I give my explanations and reasoning here.
To make my provisional decision easier to read I have sub-divided it into sections. There is inevitably 
an overlap between sections.
Change of account
Lloyds notes tell me that Mr Os chosen, preferred method of communication was email through his 
on-line banking. So, I do not consider it unusual or unreasonable for Lloyds to have communicated 
with him in that way for the account information and news. It appears that Mr O opened the emails  
not all of them. But before and after May 2021 he had opened those emails and so I think its 
reasonable of me to conclude that Mr O was aware of that inbox and the letters from the bank.
Ive seen the correspondence to Mr O from Lloyds in May 2021 informing him of the change from a 
Basic account to a Classic account. It gave him additional features which were the option to apply for 
an overdraft and the option to request a cheque book. And it informed him hed be able to manage the 
account using internet, mobile and telephone banking.
The letter also said: 
If youre happy the account is still right for you, you can carry on using it as you do today, and 
if we dont hear from you before 26 July 2021, well take it to mean you accept the change. 
Whenever we make a change we also let you know that you can choose to close your 
account.
I dont consider that the change of account was done without Mr Os consent. The language of the 
letter in May 2021 was to inform him that unless he objected to the change of account then it would 
go ahead on 26 July 2021.
I have been given information by Lloyds that Mr O had received that letter but it had remained in his 
on-line in-box as an unread email. So, that may be why Mr O thinks that the change happened 
without him knowing about it. But I dont think that was the case. And as I have explained earlier, as 
this was his preferred method of communication then Lloyds did the right thing by sending it to him 
through that route.
The reason given in the terms and conditions relating to the ownership of a Basic account clearly 
indicate that Lloyds can alter that. 
The terms say (page 8 of the document sent to us):
From time to time we will review your financial circumstances and the way you are using your 
account. We may decide to move you to a more suitable account if you become eligible for it. 
We will write to you about this at least two months before moving your account, giving our 
reasons.
The reasons given in the Lloyds letter in May 2021 were:Youve had your Basic Account for a while and because of the way youve managed your 
money, you are eligible for an account with more features and services. So, on 26 July 2021 
well change your account from a Basic to a Classic Account.
This is a commercial decision for Lloyds and seems reasonable to me. I have reviewed the bank 
statements for Mr Os account, which Lloyds has sent to us, and cover the period from March 2018 to 
April/May 2021. Lloyds assessment of a well-managed account seems fair and reasonable.
I do not consider it fair or reasonable to attribute to Lloyds any suggestion that giving Mr O this 
upgraded account with the option to apply for an overdraft led to Mr Os gambling addiction 
resurrecting itself, or led to Mr O further getting into debt to fund that gambling addiction. 
I think that would be too far removed from the reality which was that Lloyds offered him that new 
account which Mr O did not have to accept. And even if he had not realised he had the new style 
account until it was created in July 2021, still Mr O had the option to ask for it to be closed or to 
discuss with Lloyds other options.
And the overdraft of £500 was not an automatic feature  and I deal with this in the next part of my 
decision. I plan not to uphold this part of Mr Os complaint.
Overdraft applications.
Lloyds has provided for me the copy bank statements for the relevant account leading up to May 2021 
and for the periods leading up to each of the credit limit increase applications. And having reviewed 
them theres nothing in the transactions recorded there which likely would have alerted Lloyds to Mr O 
having any financial difficulties. Overall, my view is that Lloyds decision was appropriate and its 
checks were proportionate.
Lloyds has explained to us that Mr O applied on-line for each of the overdraft limit increases after he 
had applied for the initial overdraft request. Lloyds told us:
In order to qualify for lending, customers must pass credit assessments (using scores), 
indebtedness assessments (debt/income and industry standard indebtedness scores), policy 
rules (e.g. employed, good credit history) and an affordability assessment (the full details of 
which are below). We used a combination of credit reference agency data, models and 
customer stated data to assess the application from both a creditworthiness and affordability 
perspective, which is industry standard.
Lloyds has explained that it used external Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and its own Credit 
Decisioning System (CDS) to come to opinions on the applications.
Twice Mr Os applications (on-line) were referred. I asked Lloyds to explain that to me and reading all 
it has said it seems I have two explanations for why Mr Os applications may have been marked 
refer.
One explanation from Lloyds was that due to the velocity with which Mr O was applying and 
reapplying for additional credit limit increases, the applications were halted. Lloyds has explained that 
these are refreshed each 30 days and so a later on-line application proceeded to be checked for 
affordability. And they were approved.
A second explanation Lloyds has given us is that it uses the CRA and CDS systems which allocates 
...points for each piece of relevant information. These add up to produce an internal score. When a 
score reaches a certain level then the application is approved. If the score does not reach this level 
the application is either declined, or referred for a manual review.
Lloyds has sent me details of the dates and the outcome of the overdraft applications. It has 
explained that these were made on-line and it has explained the reasons an application may be 
marked refer. Ive summarised those earlier in this decision.
Lloyds has explained what it does when considering an overdraft application and it follows the usual requirements according to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Specialist sourcebook  CONC.
And I have created here a summary of the information Lloyds has given me in respect of each 
application.
Date of 
applicationExisting 
overdraft limitAmount 
applied forInformation given as part 
of the applicationApproved. Rejected 
or referred?
24 August
2021£0 £500 Income £2,400 pcm
Mortgage/rent £995approved
24 August
2021£500 £1,000 As above approved
24 August
2021£1,000 £1,500 As above approved
27 August
2021£1,500 £2,000 Income £2,730
Mortgage/rent £995Marked refer
6 September
2021£1,500 £2,000 Income £2,700 
mortgage/rent £995approved
15 September
2021£2,000 £2,500 Income £2,600 
mortgage/rent £995approved
15 September
2021£2,500 £3,000 Income £2,600 
mortgage/rent £995Marked refer
10 November
2021£,2500 £2,920 Income £2,740 
mortgage/rent £1,570declined
4 January
2022£2,500 £3,050 Income £2,680 
mortgage/rent £1,100declined
Lloyds has said that where it was marked refer then Mr O would have been invited to speak to a 
lending officer for the application to be reviewed manually. The fact that the record remained refer 
then Lloyds has said that suggests Mr O did not pursue the application. 
Other notes sent to me by Lloyds tells me that both reasons for refer were due to the velocity rules 
which I have explained earlier in this decision.
A loan was approved for Mr O between on a date around 23 September 2021 and the Lloyds notes 
I have relating to the complaint investigation Lloyds carried out show that it was for £4,000. He had 
told the bank his income was £2,592 and his expenditure was £995. The reason for the loan was to 
consolidate the lending Mr O had with Lloyds  so I think that means Mr O was going to use it to pay 
off the overdraft. That loan was paid off on 29 September 2021 using funds from another loan from a 
different bank lender.
Mr O had reached his credit limit of £2,500 by 16 September 2021. The account was last in credit 
1 November 2021.The listed gambling transactions were few and far between  two in May 2021 and several in 
October 2021. No overdraft credit limit was increased after 15 September 2021. The declined 
overdraft credit limit increase application in November 2021 prevented Mr O from having any further 
money to spend which is at the heart of his complaint. I think it was a reasonable outcome.
The first time Mr O went over his overdraft limit was 1 December 2021. By December 2021 Lloyds 
was writing to him about him being over his credit limit and so any application for an increase in the 
overdraft limit at that stage would not likely be a successful one. So those that marked declined 
seemed a reasonable outcome.
The bank had concluded that the evidence of any financial difficulties earlier in his life (around 2012) 
would have been removed as credit records usually are kept for six years only. And Lloyds has made 
a good point which is that obtaining the other loan from another bank lender together with the Lloyds 
loan showed that there was no further adverse information on his credit files such that these 
applications likely would have been turned down.
And I have seen a summary of the credit searches it carried out around August 2021 and September 
2021 and these do not show anything to cause Lloyds to be on alert to any financial problems.
Lloyds has said to us that it had no record of Mr O telling it about his gambling addiction and the 
transactions it reviewed on his Basic account, before it was upgraded, did not show that. The 
transactions show a lot of transfers in and out from other accounts and payments to other individuals. 
And as I have been sent all of Mr Os bank statements since March 2018, I have looked at them all 
and in my view there were no records likely to have prompted Lloyds to think that Mr O had a 
gambling issue.
Mr O seems to be suggesting that records Lloyds may have had from 18 or 20 years before ought to 
be records that it utilised in 2021. I do not agree. I would not consider that fair or reasonable to expect 
a bank to keep information about all its customers for that length of time. And it may be in breach of 
data regulations to keep it for so long - but I have not reviewed that legislation as I do not think its 
necessary to do that.
Mr O has told us that he had other adverse information on his credit file and Lloyds ought to have 
known of it. But despite giving Mr O plenty of time to send to us, for example, a copy of his credit file 
or any copy documents or correspondence he has about those details, none has been sent to us.
It is in the interests of both parties that the complaint is resolved. This matter has been ongoing since 
January 2022 and so it seems fair and reasonable that I come to my decision now. And I plan not to 
uphold this part of Mr Os complaint.
Treated fairly
Mr O says that he was not given enough help to assist him with the debt. But I disagree. Lloyds 
actions have been that it stopped overdraft credit increase applications when right to do so, it gave 
Mr O time in March 2022 for 30 days when the account was frozen to repay it, and earlier in the 
relationship  in September 2021  it seems it approved a loan for him to clear the overdraft debt.
The 14 March 2022 letter said this
Weve put a 30 day hold on your account(s)
Thank you for writing to us recently. We know how tough it can be to get in touch about 
money, so were grateful for your letter.
Weve read your letter, and wed like to let you know that weve put a 30 day hold on the 
account(s) noted at the top of this letter. We hope this will give you the time to take a breath 
and have a good think about what youd like to do.Mr O had mentioned that he was already taking advice from debt assistance charities and so the bank 
knew this. I have seen reference to the fact that Mr O wanted the final response letter in writing so 
that he could take it to the charities offering him debt advice (note of 6 May 2022).
After the 30 day freeze period ended, the account was closed and assigned to a third party. This 
would have been in line with the account terms and conditions.
I do not agree that Mr O was not told about this.
Correspondence has been sent to me by the bank to show that Mr O was sent letters about these 
procedures and what would happen next.
So, I plan not to uphold this part of Mr Os complaint. 
Other matters not already covered in the decision 
The declined loan
Mr O said that he was declined a loan. As I have said earlier, the September 2021 loan was approved 
and paid back early.
Mr O was asked by us about a declined loan and he has told us it was on the telephone in February 
or March 2022. We have received no details from him. Mr O has said that we should get that recorded 
call about the declined loan. But it was after the account was in arrears and after he was over his 
overdraft limit.
The overdraft approval dates pre-dated this refused application then largely its irrelevant. So, I do not 
consider I need to obtain information about that declined loan.
If Mr O considers that unfair then as I have said earlier, I am not dealing with complaints about any 
loans, only about the overdraft approvals in August 2021 and September 2021. Ive included it here to 
show Mr O that I have thought about it.
Additional evidence from Mr O
Mr O did send us a list of his CCJs but they were lists of references and details but no dates. He must 
have obtained those details from a record and we asked to see that record and nothing has been sent 
to us. So, I do not know when these occurred. They may have been recent or they may have been 
from two decades before as Mr O has told us this has been an unfortunate part of his life for 20 years.
But I have noticed when I accumulate all his submissions together that these CCJs and charging 
orders and other bad debts to which he refers may well have been in place when he first applied to 
Lloyds for a bank account. As Mr O has explained that he was only given a Basic account because of 
his CCJs and bad debts at the time, and he had that account for 18 to 20 years until it was changed in 
July 2021.
And in another email Mr O has said: yes I have CCJs 15 years ago and still have them in place today 
01.09.2022. and These CCJs are 15 years old I dont have orinal [sic] court paperwork.
Mr O has not sent us any records of any recent entries.
If that is the case, then any checks done in 2021 would not have shown these as credit file entries fall 
off records after six years. This is a point which Lloyds has said to me. And so, without that detail I 
have not been able to apply the details to my decision making. But these points are to show Mr O I 
had thought about them.
Gambling transactions on the bank statementsMr O has said many times in his submission to us that all of his gambling transactions would have 
been seen as he used the Lloyds Basic account to do them, but I have reviewed the statements and 
they do not show these transactions. And any they do show are limited and low in number.
Account closure
Mr O has explained that he is paying the third party £50 a month and is upset his bank account was 
closed. But the bank did that and was within the terms and conditions of having the bank account to 
do that.
This marks the end of the provisional decision findings duplicated here for ease of reading 
for hte final decision. 
My final decision findings 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed that part of the provisional decision about which Mr O said he did not agree 
- which was that part relating to the assignment of the debt and the imposition of a default  
then I am not persuaded to alter my views.
I repeat that part under the sub-heading in my provisional decision Treated fairly. After the 
30 day freeze period ended, the account was closed and assigned to a third party. This 
would have been in line with the account terms and conditions.
I do not agree that Mr O was not told about this. Correspondence has been sent to me by 
Lloyds to show that Mr O was sent letters about these procedures and what would happen 
next.
And dealing with the account closure, Mr O has explained that he was paying the third party 
£50 a month and was upset his bank account was closed. But Lloyds did what it was entitled 
to do within the terms and conditions of the bank account ownership.
So  for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision which are repeated here and 
form part of this final decision, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman