DRN-3064915
The complaint
Mr K complains about finance agreements taken out in his name with Tesco Mobile Limited
What happened
In June 2019 two finance agreements were taken out with Tesco Mobile Limited for two 
handsets. In the course of these transactions a deposit was paid from an account belonging 
to Mr K.  Direct debits were also set up on this account to pay for the contracts. These direct 
debits were subsequently cancelled before the payments could be taken. The handsets were 
delivered to Mr Ks neighbour. It appears that no further payments were made towards the 
handsets and Tesco Mobile Limited is pursuing Mr K for the outstanding payments.
Mr K denies that he ever took out these agreements or received the handsets. He explains 
before all of this happened, he lost his bank card for the bank account where the deposit 
came from. He has outlined how distressed he is due to being chased for money he 
suggests he does not owe. Mr K complained to Tesco Mobile Limited.
Tesco Mobile Limited declined to stop pursuing Mr K for the money owed. It took this 
decision on the basis that it was not satisfied that someone other than Mr K applied for the 
finance agreements.
Dissatisfied Mr K complained to our service.
One of investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. In the circumstances, our investigator 
thought he had no proper basis for asking Tesco Mobile Limited to take any further action. It 
followed our investigator did not recommend upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Tesco Mobile Limited accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr K did not. In 
summary, he expressed disappointment with the outcome. He shared some insight into the 
difficulties he faces in life just because of who he is. He reiterated that he did not take out 
this finance and told us that he had been treated unfairly.
Moreover, Mr K suggested the investigation was not thorough enough and did not deal with 
what he considered to be key points.  He repeated he had never received the handsets. He 
wanted to know which email account had been used apply for the finance. Our investigator 
had pointed out that the phones had been used in the geographic location that was close to 
where Mr K spent his time. Mr K suggested that the explanation for this was clear, hed lost 
his bank card locally therefore it stood to reason that the fraudsters were local. Mr K then 
asked how anyone pretending to be him could have been given this amount of credit in any 
event, given he is a full-time student without income or paid employment.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman take a look at his complaint from a fresh perspective.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I do take on board what Mr K says about the difficulties he faces everyday due to who he is, 
I dont underestimate the impact of that. However, that said, in this instance what I have to 
look at is whether I have any fair or reasonable basis for telling Tesco Mobile Limited that it 
must cease pursuing him for the debt. I have concluded that I do not have any such basis. I 
dont say this to disappoint Mr K, far from it. Let me explain why Ive reached this finding.
There are several difficulties for Mr K in relation to these finance agreements Ill go through 
them. 
In order to set up the agreements Tesco Mobile Limited was supplied with correct sensitive 
personal information about Mr K that was not readily available in public forums. 
Further, the deposit came from Mr Ks account. Albeit I recognise he tells us he lost his bank 
card and from what he tells us he did not use this account anyway. But nonetheless the 
deposit came from this account, and the money for the deposit was sent to this account a 
few days before the contracts were made. Anyone who stole or used the account without Mr 
Ks permission is unlikely to have known this was an account he did not use and that they 
also were taking the risk that Mr K would not notice the payment into and the payment out of 
his account and query it. 
Moreover, the information we have been provided with indicates that the phones were used 
within Mr Ks vicinity.
I have also thought carefully about Mr Ks latest objections.
It does go in his favour, up to a point, that the handsets were not delivered to his home 
address. It is not clear why the handsets were delivered next door. That said, if an unknown 
third party took out the finance agreements to get the phones I think it is unlikely that that 
third party would take the risk of having the handsets sent to an address right next door to 
Mr Ks address. Especially when it seems likely whoever took out the finance agreements 
had the choice of sending the handsets to an entirely unconnected address. 
I recognise that it could have been helpful to see what email address had been used to set 
up the accounts. That said, that by itself is unlikely to have been the deciding factor here. 
Email accounts can be set up without secure checks and the IP address of the email 
account was unlikely to be definitive either.
Where the phones were used also does not help Mr K. I take on board that it could be that 
an unknown third party did all of this and that they are locally based. But that does not 
explain how that third party was able to get access to all of the secure personal information 
whoever applied for the finance had to have had.
In the circumstances, on balance, I find that I have no fair or reasonable basis for telling 
Tesco Mobile Limited it must stop pursuing Mr K for payment.
Mr K mentions that he is a young person in full-time education with no income and no paid 
job. He has talked about affordability and how whoever passed the credit checks did pass 
the credit checks. I can see why he asks this. That said, this is a new issue, therefore it was 
not investigated by Tesco Mobile Limited in its final response. That means I have no power to look at this new point in this decision. If Mr K wants Tesco Mobile Limited to look at this 
issue, he will need to do this with it directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman