DRN-3959871
The complaint
Mrs N complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) made a series of errors in 
managing her pension in drawdown. These errors led to statements showing her pension 
fund had a higher value than it actually did, before a correction was applied which 
significantly reduced the amount shown as remaining in her plan. She believes the error 
raised her expectations about the value of the pension plan, which affected her retirement 
spending and caused her considerable stress and inconvenience.
Mrs N has been assisted by an IFA, but for reasons of clarity all submissions will be 
described as having come from her.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs N had to take early retirement. As she was still several years away from her 
state pension age, she was advised by her IFA to consolidate some pension benefits into a 
drawdown contract with Aviva. She began taking a monthly payment from Aviva in June 
2018.
Aviva began sending Mrs N quarterly statements showing the amounts of income withdrawn 
and the amount remaining in her pension fund from that date.
When she received her statement in May 2021, it showed 2 large deductions to the account 
for a total of nearly £27,000 taken in February 2021 in addition to her monthly income 
withdrawals, with no prior notice or explanation of what these charges were for.
Mrs N complained to Aviva on 24 May 2021 asking for a recognition from Aviva that it had 
made an error, a statement of the correct value of her pension fund and a loss assessment 
once the error was rectified.
After acknowledging the complaint, Aviva wrote to Mrs N on 21 June, 13 July, 16 August and 
14 September 2021 to inform her that it was still investigating her complaint, before providing 
a final response on 13 October 2021, over 4 months after her complaint.
In its response, Aviva explained that it had discovered an issue with the system that 
managed Mrs Ns pension payments. Essentially, this error had required Aviva to make 
additional cash payments to Mrs Ns policy to allow her monthly payments to be made to her 
on schedule. What should have happened is that these payments should have been 
reversed on a monthly basis, but this was not done. The payments that were taken in 
February 2021 were the accumulated total of all the reversal amounts that should have been 
removed each month. Aviva also explained that during the investigation it discovered that 
almost £5,000 too much had been removed from Mrs Ns pension, and this amount had 
been paid back into the plan. It also paid Mrs N £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience that this error had caused.
Mrs N was unhappy with the response, which led to Aviva reopening the complaint on 14 
October 2021. It wrote to Mrs N on that day, to reassure her that the value showing in her 
pension was now correct and that it would carry out a loss assessment to confirm that she 
had not suffered a financial detriment as a result of the error. It also made an additional 
payment of £1,300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience she had suffered.
Aviva wrote to Mrs N on 5 November 2021 with the results of the loss adjustment, which 
Aviva said showed she had made a gain of some £320, rather than a loss.
Mrs N was still unhappy with the amount of compensation she had been offered, as she felt 
this did not properly reflect the effect of this error on financial decisions she had made, so 
she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
After reviewing all the relevant information, our Investigator recommended that although 
Aviva had indeed made mistakes in administering Mrs Ns pension, the sum of £1,500 
compensation offered by Aviva was fair in the circumstances. Mrs N disagreed, so the case 
has been passed to me to take a fresh look at the evidence and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and although I uphold her complaint, I shall not be asking Aviva to increase the 
amount of compensation it has offered to Mrs N.
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mrs N, so Ill explain my reasons for reaching this 
conclusion.
Aviva has acknowledged that it has made a systematic error over a considerable period of 
time, so I have to look at how it has acted to provide an appropriate level of redress to      
Mrs N.
Firstly, I think its important to make clear that it is the role of this service to ensure that 
people who have been subjected to errors by a financial services provider are put back as 
closely as possible into the situation they would have been in had the error not happened.
In this case, I think Aviva has acted to make sure that it has replicated as closely as possible 
the financial position Mrs Ns pension would have been in had the error not been made. The 
money it withdrew from her pension belonged to Aviva and was not hers to keep. Once all 
the errors had been correctly identified and rectified, Aviva say the loss assessment showed 
that Mrs N had not lost out financially but had instead it showed a gain of around £320. 
Having said that, I have also considered the effect that this mistake has had upon Mrs Ns 
financial planning and the false expectation it created by leading her to believe that her 
pension fund held more value than it really did. Mrs N has provided evidence to show how 
some of her financial decisions have changed once she became aware of the true value of 
her pension fund. I can also see how having an inflated view of its value may have been 
behind her decision to increase the monthly income she took from it, reducing its value at a 
faster rate than she may otherwise have done. Having said that, she has clearly had the 
benefit of the additional money she withdrew, so it would not be appropriate for Aviva to 
return it to her. 
Finally, although Aviva was entitled to withdraw the money from her pension once it became 
aware of the system error, I can see how its lack of prior warning or explanation caused 
significant distress to Mrs N when it carried out the adjustment.Mrs N has provided evidence of some of the effects this situation has had on her both 
financially and on her health, so its right that Aviva compensates her for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her.
Having considered all the circumstances, and taking into account the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused Mrs N, I consider £1,500 compensation fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mrs N £1,500 compensation if it has not already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. My Final decision is that Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay £1,500 to Mrs N, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman