DRN-2727192
The complaint
Miss B complained because Santander UK Plc refused to refund her for transactions which 
she said she hadnt made. 
What happened
On 20 October 2020, Miss B contacted Santander. She said that she hadnt made around 30 
withdrawals on her account, between 27 September and 17 October. She told Santander 
that her handbag had been stolen, and shed also lost house keys, gym card, bus pass and 
other items. She said shed reported it to the police.
Santander asked Miss B why she hadnt reported her card missing for nearly a month after 
shed lost her card. Miss B said shed been trying to retrace her steps. Santander refused to 
refund Miss B, who had also said she kept her PIN numbers in her purse.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained. She said she wrote down her PIN because she 
couldnt remember it. She said she hadnt known she could change her PIN to something 
memorable.
Santander saw that Miss B had made three previous similar claims that someone else had 
fraudulently made multiple withdrawals on her account. Santander had refunded Miss B for 
two of these previous claims, and had declined one. During those investigations, Santander 
had discussed PIN security with Miss B. During those earlier claims, Miss B had told 
Santander that she didnt keep her PIN with her card.
Santander also saw that between 27 September and 17 October, Miss B had been into a 
branch three times but hadnt reported her card missing. On a phone call, she agreed shed 
made a withdrawal during this period. And on 8 October, there had been a £200 credit 
transferred in from another of Miss Bs accounts. This had been taken out as a  £100 cash 
withdrawal the same day, with further withdrawals the next day. There had also been a £100 
cash credit on 16 October.
So Santander refused to refund Miss B for her October 2020 claim. And it took the decision 
to stop providing banking facilities to Miss B.
Miss B complained to this service. She said shed had to write down the PIN because she 
couldnt remember it. She also said that she lives on benefits and the loss of the money had 
put her behind with her bills.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B told him that she couldnt be 
certain her Santander card had been in her bag when she noticed her bag was missing. She 
told him no-one could have used and returned the card without her knowing. The 
investigator also asked Miss B about the £200 credit from another of Miss Bs accounts, and 
asked why shed have transferred this into her Santander account if she didnt have the card. 
Miss B said she couldnt remember why shed made the transfer, but agreed with the 
investigator that it was hard to explain.  
The investigator thought that Miss B hadnt reported the card missing earlier, because she 
still had the card. He considered it hadnt been stolen and that on the balance of 
probabilities, Miss B had made the disputed transactions herself. So it wasnt appropriate for 
Santander to refund her.
Miss B didnt agree. She said shed lost a pink bag in the high street, because shed left 
home with it. Shed been to all the shops shed visited, but no-one had handed in a bag. She 
said shed lost so much money that shed fallen behind with her bills, and she asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in autumn 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Santander) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Santanders electronic records show that Miss Bs genuine card with its chip, and the correct 
PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Miss B authorised the payments herself. Ive also 
considered whether she failed to keep her details secure.
Who authorised the disputed payments
Miss B didnt tell Santander that her card was missing until nearly a month after the first 
transactions of the she disputed.  And during that period, between 27 September and 20 
October, she went into a branch on a number of occasions. She also doesnt dispute that 
she transferred money into her Santander account from one of her other accounts elsewhere 
on 8 October. Its not easy to understand why shed have done this, if she believed 
fraudsters had access to the account, and if her card was missing.  
And on 16 October, someone paid £100 cash into the account. Its not likely a fraudster 
would have done this. 
The pattern of withdrawals is also most unlikely for any fraudster.  Usually a fraudster would 
carry out large withdrawals over a very short period, to maximise gains before the account 
holder could notice and stop the account. Thats not what happened here. There are some 
days when no money was withdrawn, and some of the withdrawals are for small amounts.  
Also, the pattern of withdrawals is exactly the same as Miss Ns previous undisputed 
withdrawals.  So, for example, the cash machines used are the same ones Miss B had 
previously used for undisputed transactions. And they are the same type of transactions, too 
 cash withdrawals at machines, not shop purchases, nor online transactions. Miss B confirmed to our investigator that no-one else could have used her card and replaced 
it without her knowing. She lives with her son, and said she was sure he didnt touch the 
card. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Miss B carried out the 
transactions herself. So Santander doesnt have to refund her.
As Ive noted above, the regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it 
can be termed gross negligence. Ive found that its likely that Miss B did the transactions 
herself. So the payments werent unauthorised. 
But for completeness Ive looked at whether Miss B kept her details secure.  On the three 
previous fraud claims, Miss B told Santander shed kept her PIN and card separate. But on 
this claim, Miss B told Santander that shed kept the PIN close to her card, which would 
count as gross negligence. Miss B said the reason shed written down the PIN was that she 
had memory problems. But Miss B didnt provide medical evidence, either to Santander or to 
this service. And Santander had warned her about keeping her details secure, during her 
three previous claims. So even if Miss B hadnt carried out the transactions herself, Miss Bs 
evidence shows she didnt keep her personal details secure, as required under the account 
terms and conditions. 
My final decision is that I consider its most likely that Miss B carried out the disputed 
transactions herself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman