DRN-4285746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy after a leak occurred at their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M suffered an escape of water from a pipe feeding the shower in their en suite 
bathroom at their home in July 2022 and reported the matter to AA. Mr and Mrs M arranged 
for the leak and resulting damage to be fixed privately, as the repair itself wasnt covered 
under the policy and also due to the excess fee payable. 
A dispute then arose with the contractor and Mr and Mrs M decided to make an insurance 
claim for the damage caused by the original leak. AAs surveyor assessed the repair in 
October 2022, but AA then declined the claim as Mr and Mrs M couldnt provide proof of the 
cause and the extent of damage caused at the relevant time. Following a complaint made by 
Mr and Mrs M, AA maintained its position and the complaint was referred to this service. Mr 
M has since carried out remedial works and has kept receipts amounting to around £3,500.
The services investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He considered that Mr and Mrs 
M had followed the steps they would have been expected to follow. Theyd also offered to 
expose the repaired pipework for a further assessment to take place. It was the 
investigators initial view that AA should reassess the claim and pay £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. He recognised that AA needed to be able to validate 
claims, however he said that it was clear that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be able to provide the 
information AA was asking for. The investigator said that exposing the pipework and 
showing the repaired area should enable AA to determine the leaks cause.
The investigator was subsequently made aware from both parties that M had already 
completed works on the bathroom and noted that it may not be fair to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
make a hole in the repaired bathroom to show the repair. He therefore revised his view and 
recommended that AA arrange for its surveyor to scope out the works. He thought that, 
based on is surveyors findings, AA should settle the claim. If the relevant sum differed from 
that illustrated in an earlier report, the investigator considered that AA should explain and 
justify this to Mr and Mrs M.
AA disagreed with the investigators view and the case has therefore been referred to myself 
to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine here is whether AA has fairly and reasonably applied the 
terms and conditions of the relevant policy in declining this claim. I conclude that AA hasnt 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects.
Mr and Mrs M described the events of July 2022. They said that a water leak had caused 
damage and tiles had come off a wall. They notified AA, but as the policy didnt cover fixing 
the water leak itself and the excess was £500 for resulting damage, Mr and Mrs M decided 
to arrange for the leak to be fixed and tiles to be repaired privately and they sourced a 
contractor through a trade checking service. Within a short period, the tiles started coming 
off the wall. They were then in dispute with the contractor, who refused to remedy this. Mr 
and Mrs M reported the matter to the trade checking service, and it send out an engineer 
who condemned the work. Mr and Mrs M then tried to repair the tiles themselves but the 
damage was underneath the tiles and underneath the shower tray. AA then sent out an 
engineer who stated that the water leak had caused damage and also agreed that the 
repairs hadnt been carried out properly. Mr and Mrs M said that the contractor didnt give 
them a receipt for payment of £240 but they had phone records to show that theyd paid him. 
Mr and Mrs M said theyd had communication difficulties with AA; Nobody will talk to us and 
we are going around in circles. They also said theyd offered to take tiles off the wall for 
damage to be inspected. Theyd also sent a video and photographs, but AA still turned the 
claim down. Mr and Mrs M said they only wanted AA to pay for the damage caused by the 
leak and not for any other work. They felt the surveyors report had clearly stated what 
needed to be done and that it would cost over £1,000 to repair the damage. They added that 
they hadnt been able to use the shower properly since August 2022 and this was the only 
shower in the house. They said that the episode had caused stress and inconvenience.
I now turn to what AA has said about the matter. It explained its claims process. Firstly, it 
said it would normally appoint a surveyor to attend the property and produce a report, with 
photographs of the damaged area. The report would then be reviewed to confirm cover, and 
to validate and settle the claim if appropriate, to allow damage to be repaired. It said that 
where any repairs are completed prior to a claim, the validation process would be reliant on 
photographs and reports from the date when the incident was assessed, and prior to repairs 
being carried out. AA said that although requested these items, they werent supplied at the 
relevant time. It said that this hindered validation of the claim.
AA said that without this evidence, it was unable to validate the claim and accurately assess 
the level of any liability. It said that it did understand why Mr and Mrs M had the repairs 
completed privately however. It concluded; unfortunately, the AA have not been afforded the 
opportunity to inspect the damage to your property when the incident initially happened nor 
have they been provided with supporting evidence of this retrospectively. AA considered 
that the trade checking service should be dealing with liability, as the problem arose due to 
work carried out by one of its contractors.
In conclusion, AA said that its surveyor would need to determine whether the works 
completed by Mr M were necessary for reinstatement and to take a view on whether to settle 
where there was an inability to assess the original damage. It said that any settlement would 
need to be based on its rates and not for any upgraded items. AA had assumed that any 
reinstatement would be carried out by a qualified person who could professionally identify 
any damage caused by an insurable peril and accurate level of liability for reinstatement. 
AA also produced helpful case notes for this matter. These showed that at the outset, it was 
recorded that the shower unit had leaked from behind the tiles, and that there had been 
damage to the bathroom floor and walls, damage to a plasterboard wall due to trace and 
access, and also slight damage to the ceiling in the dining room. The notes recorded the 
engineers comments that Mr and Mrs Ms contractor had apparently attended and repaired 
a pipe feeding the shower unit and that this was a concealed pipe. 
The notes also showed that in November 2022, Mr and Mrs M confirmed that the leak had 
been fixed with a new washer. The contractor had taken no photographs of the faulty pipe and the hole that was drilled had been filled in by this time. They confirmed that the damage 
being claimed related to the original leak only but that the plaster and tiles needed to be 
totally removed and replaced due to the water ingress from the leak. Finally, the case notes 
showed that AA considered that it wasnt liable for any poor workmanship completed by 
failure to let the area that was originally wet, dry out sufficiently and AA felt it had no way of 
knowing what was damaged originally, as Mr and Mrs M went ahead with the repairs.
I now turn to the professional reports which were supplied in this case. These are dated 
October 2022. The relevant surveyor noted that the bottom two rows of tiling in the shower 
were loose and provided high moisture readings. Mr and Mrs M had informed the surveyor 
that their contractor had re-seated tiles onto wet plaster and the tiles had not bonded to the 
wall. Also, the bathroom floor under the shower tray was soaked and this had since been 
tiled over. Damage had occurred to the plaster where the contractor carried out trace and 
access to repair the defective pipe work. Slight staining had occurred to the ceiling below. 
The surveyor concluded that to reach a pre-loss condition, the shower tray and cubicle 
would require removal to aid drying. The affected area of wall tiles should be removed, and 
the plaster hacked off before re-instatement with skim finish and re-tiling using existing tiles. 
The floor tiles also needed to be replaced. Finally, the airing cupboard required skim finish 
and painting and the dining room ceiling required stain block and painting. The surveyor 
considered the cost of rectification to be just under £1,100 and then revised this to £1,400.
The starting point for this final decision is the wording of the policy document. Mr and Mrs M 
were covered in principle at the relevant time for any damage caused for an escape of 
water event, as in this case. There are standard exclusions and conditions in the AA policy, 
and the matter considered by AA to date is the question of whether Mr and Mrs M provided 
sufficient evidence to validate the claim. Under the heading How we will settle your claim it 
states; At our option we willrepair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; 
ormake a cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier. If we make a cash payment, 
we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers
AA has a standard claims process and customers are expected to co-operate with the 
insurer to ensure that its reasonable claims processes are followed. In this case, I consider 
that Mr and Mrs M would probably have been covered for damage caused by the leak had 
they pursued a claim at the outset. I can understand however why Mr and Mrs M thought 
that the leak and any consequential damage could be quickly and cheaply repaired, without 
the need to claim under their insurance policy. From the surveyors reports produced in 
October 2022, it became clear that the repair cost would exceed £1,000, and so the damage 
may have been more extensive than initially thought and they approached AA for assistance. 
This meant that AA couldnt go through its standard claims process, and it didnt have the 
opportunity to check the initial damage, or to use its own suppliers. It had however been 
made aware of the potential issue from the outset. 
Im satisfied from the evidence of discussions with AA and Mr and Mrs Ms contractor that a 
leak occurred and caused damage to their home. Neither the contractor nor AAs surveyor 
confirmed the cause of the leak. The video produced by Mr and Mrs M does show an 
exposed pipe and damage. Whilst I dont find this evidence to be persuasive as to the cause 
of damage, from the evidence of discussions with AA and also with their own contractor, on 
the balance of probabilities, I consider it likely to have been caused by a failed pipework 
connection to the shower which Mr and Mrs Ms contractor attempted to fix. 
I note that AA adopts a process if repairs are completed prior to the reporting of an incident, 
and it then requires photographs of the original leak and damage and a cause of damage 
report. It therefore concedes that retrospective claims may, in principle, be processed by AA. 
Here however, I agree that AA was hindered in its validation of the claim, as its unclear 
whether the photographs and video were taken prior to the leak being fixed by Mr and Mrs Ms contractor and he produced no report on repairs carried out. However, I understand the 
reason why this didnt happen as their contractor had provided a poor service in general.
Im satisfied however that Mr and Mrs M did what they could to subsequently report and 
rectify the unfortunate chain of events. Whilst AAs processes were hindered, I dont 
consider that it was entirely prevented from conducting its processes after the event. Its 
surveyor was able to produce a report to note that a pipe leak had occurred and confirm the 
remedial work which would be required. In the circumstances, and on the balance of 
probabilities, I consider that if AA had sent its surveyor at the outset, its very likely that the 
work he later identified as needing to be done, would similarly have needed to have been 
done at the outset. I also consider it likely that the damage would probably have cost over 
£1,000 to repair and that AA would have been required to process and settle the claim.
I note that Mr M ultimately completed the works himself, and had receipts amounting to 
around £3,500, however I dont consider that AA should be required to reimburse this 
amount. The video supplied by Mr and Mrs M appeared to show that general renovation 
works were being carried out in the bathroom at the relevant time, and the policy clearly 
doesnt cover such work. AA should therefore be required to settle the claim for any damage 
caused by the original leak. I appreciate that the extent of this damage is difficult to pinpoint. 
AAs surveyor stated in October 2022 that remedial work would cost nearly £1,400 (less the 
excess of £500). The remaining question is how much of this work would have been 
necessary in any event as a result of the leak, to bring the bathroom back to its existing 
condition and how much was due to the defective work of Mr and Mrs Ms contractor.
Again, on the balance of probabilities, I consider it likely that the work identified by the 
surveyor would have been required in any event to rectify the damp issues and damage 
caused by the leak. That is, the shower tray, cubicle and wall tiles would have needed to 
have been removed to aid drying. The plaster would need to have been hacked off before 
re-instatement. The airing cupboard and ceiling below would also have required attention.
In conclusion, whilst this is a finely balanced decision, I consider that a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this matter would be for AA to cash settle this claim in the sum which would have 
been paid had the works been completed by AA. I consider this to be likely to be the sum of 
just under £1,400, less the excess sum of £500. If, having reviewed the matter, AAs 
surveyor considers that the cash settlement should be different to this figure (if for instance 
his previous calculation included a sum to remedy the contractors defective work, or if the 
trade checking service or its insurers has already paid out to cover the relevant work), then 
AA must explain and justify this in writing to Mr and Mr M. 
I also consider that AA should pay Mr and Mrs M £150 in compensation. I agree with the 
investigator that AA should have reassessed the claim in November 2022 in the light of its 
surveyors findings. This sum is in line with the modest compensation which the service 
expects for inconvenience caused in such circumstances, and which is recognised to be 
over and above the distress and inconvenience caused by the leak itself and defective work 
by their own contractor, for which AA cannot be held responsible.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following within 28 days of Mr and Mrs 
Ms acceptance of this final decision, 
- Pay Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement if appropriate, to be determined by AA in 
accordance with the methodology contained in this final decision letter.- Pay £150 in compensation in any event for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman