DRN-3448592
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Startline in June 
2020. There were some issues with the cars turbo in August 2020 so the car was taken 
back to the dealer and was repaired. He says that the car was returned to him in October 
2020. The car broke down in July 2021 when Mr M was driving it on holiday overseas so he 
took the car to a manufacturers dealer which identified some issues with the engine and 
turbo. Mr M paid for the car to be recovered back to his home and then took the car to 
another manufacturers dealer which confirmed that there were issues with the engine. 
Mr M complained to Startline about the issues with the car in September 2021. It arranged 
for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in January 2022 but the battery was 
exhausted and the bonnet pull was broken so the engineer was unable to carry out an 
inspection of the engine. Startline said that it hadnt received any evidence to show that the 
car was faulty when Mr M purchased it so it closed his complaint. Mr M wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and that it was fair for Mr M to be able to reject 
it. She recommended that Startline should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund the 
deposit of £1,000 and Mr Ms monthly payments from the date the engine failed, with 
interest; pay £300 for any trouble and upset caused; and remove any adverse information 
from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the agreement.
Startline has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has responded 
to our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary and amongst other 
things, that:
the car had travelled around 8,000 miles and, if it had inherent engine issues or the 
attempted repairs had failed, its unlikely it would have been able to travel such 
distances; 
it was Mr Ms responsibility to provide evidence that the car was sold with point-of-
sale faults or that the repairs had failed; and
the cars MOT certificate expired in June 2021 so by driving the car Mr M was in 
breach of his agreement and relevant UK laws and, had the car been through an 
MOT test, the engine faults could have been identified and potentially rectified before 
such catastrophic damage was done.
Mr M says that he wants his complaint to end as soon as possible but he paid for the car to 
be recovered which cost him around £800 and he had to pay about €400 to stay overseas 
for an extra two days until the manufacturers dealer was open. He says that the most 
important thing is that the breakdown put his family and his life in danger but he wants to 
finish this as soon as possible in order to buy another car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Startline, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was about four years old and had a price of 
£18,980  it passed an MOT test in June 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 
39,734 miles;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr M says that there were some issues with the cars turbo in August 2020 so the car 
was taken back to the dealer and it was repaired but wasnt returned to him until 
October 2020  hes provided an invoice from October 2020 for repairs to the car 
totalling £2,733.43 which included the cost of a new turbo and was paid by the 
dealer;
the cars mileage is shown on the invoice as 42,627 miles so, since the June 2020 
MOT test, the car had been driven for about 3,000 miles;
the car broke down in July 2021 and its mileage when it broke down was 47,927 
miles  so in the time since the turbo had been replaced the car had been driven for 
about 5,000 miles;
the car was taken to an overseas manufacturers dealer in July 2021 after it had 
broken down and to another manufacturers dealer in September and November 
2021 and the job sheets say: Metal chips in the engine oil and oil filter - turbocharger 
shaft loose/has too much play, probably damage to the turbocharger, possible engine 
failure; internal failure in engine; damaged crankshaft bearings, metal files in oil; 
and requires new engine;
Mr M complained to Startline about the issues with the car in September 2021 and it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in January 2022 - but 
the inspection report says that the cars battery was exhausted and the bonnet pull 
was broken so the engineer was unable to carry out an inspection of the engine;
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M 
because it required a new turbo about two months later  the car was then repaired 
and returned to Mr M in October 2020 but broke down in June 2021 and the job 
sheets refer to issues with the engine, including with the turbo;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a car of this age and mileage to require 
a new turbo and a new engine in little more than a year after it was supplied  and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt properly repaired between 
August and October 2020 or that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for 
Mr M to expect it to be;Startline says that the cars MOT certificate had expired in June 2021 so when the 
car broke down in July 2021 Mr M was driving it without a valid MOT certificate and 
that, if the car had had an MOT test before it broke down, the engine faults could 
have been identified and potentially rectified before such catastrophic damage was 
done;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that an MOT test in June 
2021 would have identified the issues with the cars engine that caused it to break-
down in July 2021 or that Mr Ms failure to have an MOT test on the car in June 2021 
causes the remedy that Ive set out in this decision to be unfair or unreasonable; and 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Startline to allow 
Mr M to reject the car and to take the other actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Startline should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be 
collected from Mr M  both at no cost to him. The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr M 
paid a deposit of £1,000 for the car. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Startline to 
refund to Mr M the deposit that he paid for the car, with interest. I find that it should also 
remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file.
Mr M was able to use the car until it broke down in July 2021 (other than the period between 
August and October 2020 when it was being repaired). Our investigator recommended that 
Startline should also refund the monthly payments made by Mr M from the date that the 
engine failed, with interest. Mr M says that he wants this finished as soon as possible and I 
agree with our investigators recommendation in these circumstances. There are other costs 
for which Mr M might also be entitled to compensation but, as he wants this finished as soon 
as possible, I havent considered those costs any further.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr M and hes described 
the effect of the break-down on him and his family. That must have been a distressing 
experience for them, for which they have my sympathy. I find that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for Startline to pay £300 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Startline Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M the deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
the period since the car broke down in July 2021.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file.6. Pay £300 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to at 4 above. Startline must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman