DRN-3696229
The complaint
Mr S complains British Gas Insurance Limited failed to carry out repairs to his hot water 
system under his homecare insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr S says his hot water system isnt producing enough hot water which he thinks is due to its 
age and efficiency. He says the cylinder, amongst other things, needs replacing with a new, 
larger one, to improve efficiency. He thinks British Gas should cover this under the policy. 
British Gas say they attended Mr Ss home several times and found no fault with the hot 
water system after testing it. Rather, Mr S needed to change the way he was operating the 
system  by turning the hot water on sooner than he has been before use. And if Mr S 
wanted to upgrade parts of his system, this was excluded from cover. 
Mr S didnt agree and complained. He says hes a vulnerable person, with health and 
wellbeing conditions, and relies on having hot water, but not enough is being produced. And 
British Gas have failed to help him under the policy. Mr S also provided a report from his 
own engineer which he says supports his views that the policy should respond. 
British Gas responded to the complaint in April 2022. They paid Mr S £70 compensation for 
some service issues but maintained the policy didnt respond to the circumstances he 
reported. So, Mr S approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. She thought British Gas 
assessed Mr Ss concerns fairly and didnt think the policy should have responded. She did, 
however, recommend British Gas pays Mr S a further £50 compensation to recognise the 
poor service  such as the broken appointments and failing to call him back despite 
promising to. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S made many points in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each and every one. 
Were an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be the pertinent points. 
Whats clear is Mr Ss system isnt producing as much hot water as hed like it to  and 
hasnt been for some time. And I know this has been a very frustrating and distressing time 
for him  particularly given his health. 
The question to answer here is whether British Gas treated Mr S fairly or should they have 
replaced and repaired parts under the policy. To answer this question, Ive considered what 
British Gas, Mr S, and his own engineer has said. 
British Gas say no faults were found when assessing and testing the system during visits. 
Rather, Mr S needed to turn on the hot water sooner than he was to allow it to heat up. As 
failing to operate it properly would result in the hot water being diluted with cold. 
Mr S doesnt think this is an appropriate solution given the rise in the cost of energy, and his 
system continues to produce less hot water despite carrying this out. His own engineer also 
didnt agree with British Gas when saying there was nothing that could be done by them to 
improve the amount of hot water Mr S is getting. Their opinion is the old unvented cylinder 
should be replaced with a larger, vented cylinder, as this will produce more water. They also 
commented on the boiler and said its very old and inefficient and, if replaced under the 
policy, this would significantly improve the heating and hot water systems. 
I do understand why Mr S thinks British Gas should undertake these works to improve his 
old system, to a newer, more efficient system. That said, I must also consider what the policy 
terms say, which Ill now refer to: 
General conditions 
Making any improvements 
Your Product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it 
stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades 
The policy goes on to define an upgrade as, improvements that make your boiler, appliance 
or system safer, and more efficient. 
I accept Mr S is telling us his system isnt working as hed like it to, and parts need to be 
replaced and repaired. But what I think his own engineer is recommending here is for old, 
less-efficient parts of the system to be upgraded to new, more efficient parts, such as the 
cylinder and a new boiler. But thats not how an insurance policy works  an insurance policy 
provides cover for risks, not certainties. Parts of the system becoming less efficient due to 
age isnt something an insurance policy such as this one is designed to cover. 
After reporting these concerns, British Gas attended (including a visit from a manager  as 
requested by Mr S), investigated the matter, and found there to be no faults following tests. 
Thats how the policy is designed to respond initially, for engineers to assess the situation. 
And I wouldnt expect an insurer to carry out repairs after finding no faults, or other works to 
improve its efficiency because the policy specifically excludes this. 
So, in answering the question above, I find that British Gas handled matters reasonably. I 
say this because Mr S is requesting British Gas upgrades his system, which in my view is 
supported by his own engineers comments, and isnt covered by the policy. 
I note Mr Ss own engineer commented that the cylinder showed signs of corrosion and 
could potentially be dangerous. Corrosion is something Id expect to have occurred gradually 
over time which the policy specifically excludes. So, I wouldnt expect the policy to respond 
in this case either. As such, I wont be requiring British Gas to do anything in respect of the 
claim.  So, whilst I dont think British Gas handled Mr Ss concerns regarding the hot water system 
unfairly, there were some service issues  such as broken appointments and Mr S wasnt 
called back when promised. Ive considered the service aspects, and Im satisfied our 
investigator recognised the initial £70 compensation amount British Gas offered wasnt fair. I 
also think a further £50 compensation to recognise that things should have been handled 
much better, and the impact of this on Mr S, to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate. So, Ill 
be requiring British Gas to pay this to Mr S. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve Mr Ss dispute with British Gas  can do for him. 
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited must now pay Mr S a further £50 compensation, in addition to 
the £70 already paid. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must now pay 
Mr S £50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman