DRN-3906723
The complaint
Miss D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In August 2022, Miss D was looking for a property to rent and found one she was interested 
in listed on an online marketplace. She spoke to the estate agents advertising the property 
and was told that, due to high demand, she would need to pay a holding deposit before 
viewing the property. Miss D then made a payment of £450 from her Monzo account to the 
bank details the estate agent gave her. Unfortunately the estate agent then didnt arrange 
the viewing and stopped communicating with Miss D. And we now know the estate agents 
were scammers.
Miss D reported the payment to Monzo as fraud and asked it to refund the money she had 
lost. Monzo investigated but said it had shown her a warning before she made the payment, 
and it didnt think she had taken enough steps to check who she was paying. So it didnt 
agree to refund the money she had lost. Miss D wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the warnings Miss D was 
shown were effective and didnt agree that Miss D had made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief that it was legitimate. So they thought Monzo should refund the 
money Miss D lost in full. Monzo disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Miss D fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it 
is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Miss D ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us screenshots of the warning Miss D was shown before making the 
payment, which said:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if:
You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
The offer sounds too god to be true
You havent double-checked who youre paying
You were told to ignore warnings like this
You may lose money if this is a scam
If youre unsure, stop and get advice
But while this warning does mention double-checking who youre paying, the rest of the 
things it mentions werent relevant to Miss Ds circumstances. It doesnt provide much detail 
on what a possible scam might look or feel like. I dont think its clear enough on the 
seriousness of the potential consequences of sending money to a scammer. And I dont 
think it gives clear enough advice on what steps Miss D could have taken to avoid a scam. 
So I dont think this warning was impactful or specific enough to be effective in Miss Ds 
circumstances.
Miss D was also shown a warning when setting up the new payee for the payment, which 
said it was almost impossible for Monzo to get the money back once a payment was made. 
But it only talked about taking further steps where the customer already had doubts. And it 
didnt give any detail on what specific scams could look or feel like. So, even combining both 
warnings, I dont think the warnings Miss D was shown were specific enough to be effective 
in her circumstances.
And so I dont think Monzo has established that Miss D ignored an effective warning in 
relation to the payment.
Did Miss D have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?Monzo has said there were a number of reg flags about the circumstances surrounding the 
scam, which should have caused Miss D concern. Specifically, it says she should have been 
concerned when she was shown a warning that the payment details shed entered for the 
payment didnt match those on the account the money was going to and that the scam would 
have been uncovered if she had viewed the property before paying a deposit. So it doesnt 
think she had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was legitimate.
But Miss D found the property listed on a genuine online marketplace. She says she spoke 
to both the estate agent and the landlord over the phone. And Ive seen copies of a number 
of emails and text messages she exchanged with the estate agent, which appear relatively 
professional. So I think its reasonable that the estate agent and the property will have 
initially seemed genuine to Miss D.
Miss D was also given a contract to sign for the holding deposit. She was sent links to the 
estate agents website, which she says she followed and showed both this property and 
other properties the agent was advertising. And the estate agents email signature also 
included a company number and address, which matched the registered details for the agent 
on Companies House. And I think its reasonable that these details will have helped reassure 
Miss D that the estate agent was genuine.
Miss D was shown a warning when setting up the payment that the payment details shed 
entered didnt match those on the account the money was going to. But, after seeing this 
warning, she says she called the estate agent who confirmed the details and checked 
Companies House and saw the estate agent registered there. And I think its reasonable that 
this will have reassured her the estate agent was genuine. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to continue with the payment, even after seeing the warning.
And while guidance about renting property will often say to view a property before paying 
anything, the estate agent explained that because of high demand they were only doing 
short notice viewings for people who verified themselves on their website. And they said the 
deposit would be refunded if Miss D didnt like the property after her viewing. And as the 
rental market can be very competitive and move very fast, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Miss D to agree to this.
While I accept there were a number of red flags about what was happening that should have 
caused Miss D some concern, this was a sophisticated scam where the scammers had set 
up a fake website and registered a fake company on Companies House. I also think Miss D 
took reasonable steps to try to satisfy herself that everything was genuine. And shes told us 
she was under a certain amount of time pressure, as she had to move out of her existing 
property around a month after the payment was made. So based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I dont think its unreasonable that these issues didnt cause her enough concern to 
overcome the parts of the scam that felt genuine.
So I dont think Monzo has established that Miss D made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think Monzo has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think Monzo should refund 
the money Miss D lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:Refund Miss D the £450 she lost as a result of this scam, less any money already 
recovered
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected her claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman