DRN-3282780
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly declined a claim against their commercial select insurance policy. 
Mr H2  Mrs H and Mr Hs son  has brought the complaint on their behalf. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer to them as Mrs H and Mr H, unless stated otherwise. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to all parties. As such, rather than repeating 
in detail what happened, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider to be 
materially relevant to the complaint. 
Mrs H and Mr H received a letter from their local council in March 2021. The council said 
Ash trees on their land were infected with Ash Dieback, and as the landowners, it was their 
responsibility to carry out reasonable tree management where the risk of harm or injury to a 
member of the public was foreseeable. The recommendation from the council was to fell the 
trees infected. 
Mrs H and Mr H raised a claim with NFU. They said, as the trees were infected by a fungal 
disease, the claim should be met. 
NFU considered the claim but declined it. They said the council advised Mrs H and Mr H to 
fell the trees that were adjacent to the highway, posing a risk to the public. The advice wasnt 
given due to a concern for the environment. And the policy didnt respond as there was no 
insured event. 
Mrs H and Mr H didnt agree and raised a complaint. NFU responded to it in July 2021 
maintaining their position. They said, when arriving at their decision, they relied on opinions 
from experts, solicitors, and underwriters to do so. Mr H2 said hes a solicitor with 
experience in handling insurance matters and was of the view the claim should be met under 
the policy. As Mrs H and Mr H remained unhappy, they approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think the claim reported by Mrs H and Mr H was covered by the policy. Mrs H and Mr H 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key finding I must make is whether I think NFU declined the claim fairly. My starting point 
here is the policy, namely, the Environmental Liability section Mrs H and Mr H think should 
respond to the claim. 
For a claim to be met under this section, a policyholder must be legally liable for damages 
arising from one of the following listed perils: 
1. Accidental INJURY to any person; 
2. PROPERTY DAMAGE; 
3. trespass, nuisance or obstruction; and/or 
4. BIODIVERSITY DAMAGE; 
Arising out of any POLLUTION CONDITION or ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE; 
If one of these perils occur, NFU will indemnify the policyholder for all sums they are legally 
liable to pay as damages arising from it. 
Mrs H and Mr H arent being pursued for damages by the council. Nor do I think their claim 
has triggered any of the above perils. The council advised Mrs H and Mr H to carry out tree 
management as there was a foreseeable risk of harm or injury to a member of the public. 
So, I dont think the policy should respond to the circumstances they reported.  
Mrs H and Mr H say the council should be considered as a Regulatory Authority, which 
instructed them to act. Its not disputed the council should be considered as a Regulatory 
Authority. But I think its fair to say, given their March 2021 letter, the advisories given were 
to mitigate the risk posed to the public and highway, rather than the environment. 
I do think Mrs H and Mr H discovered a pollution condition. I say this because the policy 
includes fungi as a pollution condition under its definition. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether the Mitigation Costs section of the policy should respond to the claim. For clarity, 
this says: 
If YOU discover a POLLUTION CONDITION or ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE on the 
INSURED PREMISES arising from an accidental and unforeseeable event, WE will 
pay any reasonable expenses incurred by YOU solely to avert and/or minimise the 
imminent risk of a liability which would be covered by this section 
For this section of the policy to respond, an accidental and unforeseeable event must occur. 
I do think Mrs H and Mr H discovered a pollution condition, but the policy will only respond if 
it arose from an accidental and unforeseeable event. And, based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think the circumstances Mrs H and Mr H described when reporting the claim should be 
considered as accidental and unforeseeable, on balance. Ill explain why. 
Mrs H and Mr H say the location of the trees infected is on a part of their land that isnt 
regularly visited or maintained. So, I can understand they may not have known there was an 
issue. Mr H2 also said, if the spread of Ash Dieback was not considered as accidental, it 
must have been in some way purposeful. I dont agree with this, as I dont think thats the 
only consideration here. Ill return to this point later in my decision.  
Within the March 2021 letter from the council, it gives information on what Ash Dieback is, 
and importantly, both the wider longstanding awareness, and its impact, observed by local 
councils and landowners. The council says, in most cases, its a disease that spreads 
through mature Ash trees over several years and causes them to die. It goes on to say Ash 
Dieback is a serious concern for councils and landowners across the country and was 
projected that 90% of mature Ash trees will die due to it. And, that Ash Dieback was first 
noticed by the local council in 2014. 
This demonstrates in my view Ash Dieback isnt an uncommon, or recent, unforeseen issue. 
In fact, its quite the opposite. The letter from the council also says it has focused on trees that pose a risk to the public  
not the environment. This, in my view, demonstrates the advisories given to Mrs H and Mr H 
by the council were to mitigate the risk posed to the highway and public, rather than the 
environment. So, I havent been satisfied the council required Mrs H and Mr H to pay 
remediation costs due to concerns with the environment. 
In my view, it would appear Ash Dieback shouldnt be considered as both accidental and 
unforeseeable. Rather, on balance, it appears more likely that Ash Dieback is a well known 
concern and highly likely to affect most Ash trees. 
Returning to Mr H2s point where he said, if Ash Dieback wasnt accidental, it must have 
been in some way purposeful. I dont agree with this theory because some things happen 
which are neither. And I dont think the development of Ash Dieback can really be described 
as accidental, even if the trees werent purposefully infected. And in any event, for this 
section of the policy to respond to a claim, it needs to be both accidental and unforeseeable. 
And, for the reasons given above, I dont think either has been satisfied. 
I dont think Mrs H and Mr Hs policy was designed to cover such circumstances they 
reported. They were advised to fell Ash trees that posed a foreseeable risk to the public. An 
insurance policy is designed to cover unforeseeable events, which I havent been persuaded 
Ash Dieback is. 
As such, I dont think NFU unfairly declined the claim, because I dont think the policy covers 
the circumstances they reported. Nor do I think the spread of Ash Dieback should be 
considered as accidental and unforeseeable. 
I accept my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mrs H and Mr H. But my 
decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with NFU  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman