DRN-2168832
The complaint
Mr S complains that N26 Bank GmbH (N26) blocked and closed his account, and returned 
some of the funds remaining in his account (£523.46) to a third party who had raised a 
dispute with N26 about the funds.
To put things right, Mr S wants N26 to return the £523.46 to him.
What happened
On 7 June 2019, N26 blocked Mr Ss account, while it carried out a review. On 2 July 2019, 
it sent Mr S an email telling him it would close his account in two months. Then, on 30 July 
2019, it emailed Mr S again saying it had identified a substantial violation of its terms of 
business and had closed Mr Ss account with immediate effect.
Mr Ss account balance at the time was £556.22. N26 returned £523.46 to a third party who 
had raised a dispute via his bank and released the remaining account balance of £32.76 to 
Mr S. 
On 31 July 2019, N26 wrote to Mr S to confirm the outcome of its review. It said it had 
completed its review and that it had returned the £523.46 to the third party, after receiving a 
dispute from the third partys bank. It said Mr S could refer his complaint to our Service, if he 
remained unhappy.
Mr S then brought his claim to us. Our investigator said N26 was entitled to block and close 
Mr Ss account. But she said it shouldnt have returned the £523.46 to the third party 
because Mr S had already spent that money, and so the third partys claim was unrelated to 
the funds in Mr Ss account.
N26 objected. It said the two balances cant be considered separately, and that it was 
entitled to return the £523.46. It asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied N26 acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked Mr Ss account. And that it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions that govern the relationship between it and Mr S.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if N26 acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. Having done so, Im satisfied it completed its review in a reasonable timeframe. 
Having reviewed the actions N26 took then, I can see no basis on which I might make an 
award against it. And Im satisfied it complied with its own procedures when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Ss account. So, Im not going to ask it to compensate him for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. Or for any losses he suffered as a result.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss accounts  which both N26 and Mr S had to comply with 
 say that N26 could close the account at any time by giving two months notice, or 
immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances. 
So, Ive looked at the terms of business, and Ive thought about the evidence N26 provided 
me to support its decision. Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied 
that N26 acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ss account. 
So, I wont ask it to do anything to put things right for Mr S.
Returning the funds
Ive looked at Mr Ss account history and Ive listened to what both he and N26 have told our 
Service about the disputed funds. Having done so, I wont be asking N26 to return the funds 
to Mr S. Ill explain why.
When Mr S first came to our Service, he said a friend abroad had asked him to receive 
monies from a friend in the UK and send it to the first friend abroad. He said the UK friend 
didnt have a Western Union account so couldnt send the money himself. He told our 
Service the funds in question were £753.
Mr S then explained that he didnt actually know the UK sender, and that he was only friends 
with the person to whom he sent the money. He went on to say that he didnt understand 
why the UK sender had raised a dispute, and that he was confused as to why he had only 
disputed £523.46 of the £753.
Having looked at Mr Ss statements, I can see that he received £523.46 from the UK sender. 
And that he sent £753 to his friend abroad. The £753 appears to be made up of the £523.46, 
plus a payment from another third party of £100 and a payment from a further third party of 
£129.76. All three payments are from difference accounts and one of them has the reference 
British Gas. The total of those transactions is £753.22.
I asked Mr S to provide evidence that he had been asked to send the monies to a friend 
abroad. And to show the link between the UK sender and the friend abroad. I also asked him 
to explain why he had told our Service he had received the money from one party, when in 
fact it had come from three sources. But Mr S didnt reply.
Having considered the above, and what N26 has shown me, I understand why it had 
concerns about the way Mr S was operating his account and about the transaction in 
question. Ive given Mr S the opportunity to explain the transactions, explain the 
discrepancies in his story, and provide evidence to demonstrate hes entitled to the funds. 
But he has not done so.
So, having considered all of the evidence Ive received from both parties, Im satisfied N26 
didnt act unfairly when it returned the funds to the third party.I know Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome. But, having looked at all of the available 
evidence, I cant say that N26 did anything wrong. So, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I do not upfold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman