DRN-1391386
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited (FirstRand) trading as MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He would like the car replaced.
What happened
 Mr B says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in August 2019. He says he had 
problems within five days of having the car. The engine sounded as if it was losing power 
when started from cold. 
He says the car was taken for repair in August 2019 when the front grille and battery were 
replaced. It was inspected again on 15 August 2019, but no fault was found 
Mr B said he continued to have the same problem, so the car was booked for an 
independent inspection on 4 October 2019.
MotoNovo said the independent report  confirmed there was a fault present with excessive 
engine surging. However, it concluded there was no evidence the fault was present or 
developing at the point of sale. And that as the car had been driven 6,551 miles since 
purchase it was likely the problem had arisen within the last 500 miles due the age and 
usage of the car.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She didnt agree with the independent report 
findings since he had raised the problem with the engine with a few days of having it. She 
recommended that MotoNovo :-
-Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr B to pay
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr B
-Refund Mr Bs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Remove the finance agreement from Mr Bs credit file
Mr B accepted his view, but MotoNovo didnt. It referred our investigator back to the findings 
of the independent report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that since our investigator issued her view Mr B  raised an issue with a warranty, 
he took out at the same time he took out his Hire Purchase Agreement. He says that he 
would like  a full refund of the warranty as it hasnt covered replacement of a specific part. 
This seems to me to be a new complaint since I havent found any evidence that Mr B has 
raised this before . Or that MotoNovo  has had an opportunity to consider this. If Mr B feels 
the warranty was mis sold to him, he will need to raise this with either the warranty company 
or if appropriate , with MotoNovo in the first instance.
In terms of Mr Bs actual complaint dont think there is any dispute that there is an issue with 
excessive engine surge on Mr Bs car. The main issue is whether this is a point of sale issue 
for which MotoNovo is responsible for.
Mr B took out his agreement on 4  August 2019.From the customer notes I can see that the 
car was inspected twice in August 2019  by the dealership and then by an approved 
dealership for Mr Bs make of car. At this time a grill was replaced (an issued identified  pre-
sale) and a battery was replaced  Ive noted from the information I have this was done in 
relation to Mr B saying the car had an issue of poor starting  but no other faults were found.
I am conscious Mr B bought a used car with significant mileage on the clock  (over 99,000 
miles) when he got it. So he might reasonably expect there to be issues with the car that he 
might have to deal with  more so than if for example he had bought a new car. 
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. And Mr B raised 
issues with the car within 30 days of having it  so if there were problems he did, at that 
point, have the right to reject the car. 
When Mr B complained to MotoNovo it commissioned an independent report which is what I 
would have expect it to do.
I have read the independent report carefully. It confirms there is an issue with excessive 
engine surging until the engine warms up. The report concluded further investigation was 
needed  to identify the fault  and it couldnt absolutely confirm if there was a point of sale 
issue or not. 
However, the report concluded based on the age of the car and  the  mileage undertaken 
(over 6,500 miles) since Mr B had the car that on a balance of probability the issue wouldnt 
have been present at the point of sale. And that the engine surging was due to deterioration 
that should b expected in a used car and be a running cost.
Ive noted from MotoNovos notes that Mr B sent in some video evidence to the business,  
but it was unable to view this due, I think , to the file size.  I understand however that Mr B 
also sent  some invoices to show the car had been looked at twice within the first month of 
him having it.
As MotoNovo couldnt view the video evidence it went back to the independent inspector to 
query his decision. And to ensure the inspector was aware that the car had been inspected 
twice before.
In response the independent inspector said the documents Mr B provided didnt relate to the 
engine surging issue. That the engine surging could be down to any number of issues for 
example  such as fuel, timing or a sensor defect however this issue wasnt impacting on the 
overall performance of the car.
He added that the vehicle had covered a very high mileage, and this may have impacted on 
a component reaching the end of its life. He couldnt conclude that the business was liable 
but felt issues such as this  with a vehicle of this mileage shouldnt be unexpected since 
engine components do have a life expectancy.I have considered carefully the independent inspectors comments. Its unfortunate that 
when Mr B first raised his complaint, I understand he had completed approximately 3,000 
miles. There was a delay in carrying out the independent inspection as Mr B was abroad. Mr 
B then covered another 3,000 miles prior to the report being undertaken.. I appreciate the 
inspector was aware of this.
I accept there will be ongoing maintenance and repair issues particularly in a used car. But 
we still expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. It seems to me that Mr B raised 
an issue of a problem with the car starting within days of having it. And although a new 
battery was fitted the problem continued.  The  independent report confirms there is a 
starting issue with the car. And the inspector hasnt been able to absolutely determine that 
this was a point of sale issue or not. 
Taking all the information I have into account  I am persuaded that the problem was present 
at the point of sale. And that a replacement battery didnt resolve the problem . And as Mr B 
raised this within 30 days of having the car, he had a right to reject it. On that basis I think its 
reasonable to allow Mr B to reject the car now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement FirstRand Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance Limited should:-
-Cancel Mr Bs agreement with no further monthly payments to be paid
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr B
-Refund Mr Bs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman