DRN-4288925
The complaint
Mr C complains Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his motor 
insurance policy.
Aviva, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint as it 
relates to a claim against the policy.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr Cs car was stolen around 12 March. He made a claim on his motor insurance policy with 
Aviva. Aviva declined his claim as Mr Cs son (who Ill refer to as D in this decision) was the 
last person to drive the car before it was stolen, and D wasnt a named driver. 
Mr C complained about this to Aviva raising three key reasons why its decision wasnt fair.
1. Had the exclusion Aviva is seeking to rely on been made clear when Mr C took out 
the policy, he wouldve added D to the policy as a named driver, as hes done in the 
three years before. But this wasnt pointed out in the online sales process.
2. D having been the last person to drive the car isnt relevant to the theft occurring as it 
was no more likely it wouldve been stolen having last been driven by D as opposed 
to Mr C or a named driver. D had permission to drive the car  to drop off the named 
driver - and an insurance policy for his own vehicle. 
3. Mr C understood from the policy that other drivers  not just those who are named - 
were covered for third party, fire and theft claims.
Aviva explained the terms of the policy in relation to other drivers and the levels of insurance 
cover provided by the policy for Mr C and named drivers depending on who was driving. So 
it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this, so he referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review. The Investigator looked into matters and thought Aviva fairly declined the claim as D 
isnt a named driver, so hes not covered by Mr Cs policy, and he was in charge of the car 
when it was stolen. They didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C disagreed and made several points, including the following, as summarised below. 
- The online sales process failed to make clear that only named drivers were covered. 
If it had, he wouldve cancelled the policy or added D as a named driver.
-D had previously been included as a named driver by Mr C and wouldve been added again if 
hed known D wouldnt otherwise be covered to drive his car. 
- The exclusion relied on by Aviva is contradicted by other parts of the policy, namely 
the table on page 2 which gives the customer some understanding of policy 
coverage. He says the ticks in this table imply other drivers - someone given 
permission to drive your car but not named on the policy  are covered. And a 
reasonable person wouldnt consider they needed to look more closely at further 
pages of the policy to understand this. 
- The policys use of the terms named drivers and other drivers is misleading and 
confusing. And theres no definition of other drivers.
The Investigator and Mr C communicated about these points but this didnt change the 
Investigators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached, this matter has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr C that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. 
To decline Mr Cs claim, Aviva have relied on the following exclusion which is set out in the 
terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy with it.
What we wont pay for:
- Any accident, injury, loss or damage while any vehicle that is insured under this 
policy is being:

b. Driven by, or is in the charge of any person for the purposes of being driven who:
i. Is not described under the section of your certificate of motor insurance 
headed Persons or classes of persons entitled to drive
At the time Mr Cs car was stolen, Im satisfied it was in Ds charge. Hed recently driven and 
parked it close to his friends property, intending to return to it after hed spent the night with 
his friend. It was in this time it was stolen. I also note when notifying Aviva of the claim, Mr C 
confirmed this in answer to the question Who was in charge at the time of the accident.
Also, D wasnt a named driver on the policy, so he wasnt described under the section of Mr 
Cs policy headed Persons or classes of persons entitled to drive in the above exclusion. 
It follows Im satisfied Aviva can decline Mr Cs claim based on the above exclusion. 
Ive gone onto consider why Mr C says this term shouldnt be applied and the claim should 
be paid. 
Mr C says the exclusion relied on by Aviva is contradicted by other parts of the policy. But I 
dont see things the same way. Im satisfied the policy is clear on the following general 
principles, which are common in fully comprehensive motor insurance policies.
- Mr C  as the main policyholder - is the insured driver with fully comprehensive cover 
under it. 
- Mrs C  as the named driver  is covered to drive Mr Cs vehicle but with a reduced 
level of cover when compared to Mr C. 
- Someone who isnt the main policyholder nor a named driver, isnt insured to drive 
the car under this policy. Turning to the table of contents on page 2. I consider it is just that, a table of contents. It lists 
what is in the following pages of the policy, with reference to the page numbers where the 
sections and parts listed can be found. Depending on the type of cover held, a tick is placed 
next to those parts of the policy which are relevant. This implies the consumer needs to 
check the relevant page to understand that part of the policy, including the level and type of 
any cover provided under it. The table shows section 2 is broken into several parts. One part 
is headed liability of other persons driving or using your car and refers to page 14 of the 
policy. Turning to page 14, the policy is clear - this section covers liability owed to third 
parties. 
Taking everything into account, I dont consider the table of contents on page 2 can be 
reasonably said to be a table of terms, nor indictive of them. Neither do I agree this can 
reasonably be read in isolation as giving motor insurance cover to any person the 
policyholder gives permission to drive their car. Even so, this section doesnt provide cover 
for the theft of Mr Cs car, even if it had been in Mr C (or a named drivers) charge.
Given there is a distinction between the treatment of named drivers and other people driving 
the car, I consider it reasonable for the policy to refer to both. And I dont think the fact other 
drivers arent defined means the policy is unclear or should be read as covering them in the 
same way as the main policy holder or a named driver. 
I note Mr C would like our service to ask Aviva to look into claims where their policy 
documents may be seen as ambiguous and unclear to assist him and other customers. This 
isnt something that our service can do. We look at individual complaints and, where a 
business has done something wrong, we ask it to take steps to put the matter right for that 
consumer. The Financial Conduct Authority is the party who regulates insurers and can 
consider the way it conducts its business more generally. So, whilst this might be something 
he wants to take forward with them, its not something I can consider.
Im not ignoring the points Mr C has raised about the online sales process. But this is a 
complaint against Aviva, as the underwriter, for declining Mr Cs claim. If Mr C is unhappy 
with the sale of the policy to him, this is a separate complaint point which hed need to raise 
with the business that sold the policy to him, giving it the opportunity to investigate the matter 
in the first instance. 
I recognise Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman