DRN-1670813
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Santander UK Plc responded to her Data Subject Access 
Request.
What happened
Ms B attended a Santander branch to raise a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). She 
subsequently received a large data file in response to her request. Ms B stated she couldnt 
open the data file she was sent because additional software was required, which branch 
staff hadnt warned her would be necessary.
Santander said it gave Ms B guidance as to what software would assist in opening the data 
file. But it said she declined to download it. So, it posted a paper-based copy of the 
electronic file it had sent her.
On 12 September 2019 Ms B received a letter from Santander, which enclosed its response 
to her DSAR  namely a large amount of information relating to her current account. This 
correspondence was sent by recorded delivery. And, while Ms Bs address was incorrectly 
endorsed on the envelope, it was received safely by her.
Ms B was unhappy Santander hadnt addressed the envelope enclosing its DSAR response 
correctly. She felt this had breached data protection legislation and her confidentiality. And 
she said the correspondence she received didnt answer the query she had raised. So, she 
complained to Santander.
Santander investigated Ms Bs concerns. It explained it had checked the original DSAR she 
had submitted in branch and provided as much information as it had been able to. It stated it 
had attempted to assist Ms B in opening the data file, which had been sent in a zipped 
format due to the size and encryption of the data supplied. And, when Ms B declined to use 
the software it suggested might be required to open the data file it agreed to provide a 
posted version. Santander also disputed that it had incorrectly written Ms Bs address on the 
envelope containing its DSAR response. So, it didnt think it had made an error and it didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Ms B was dissatisfied with Santanders response  she felt her concerns werent being taken 
seriously and shed been caused distress and inconvenience by what had happened. So, 
she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and, while they empathised with Ms B, 
didnt think that Santander had acted unfairly in dealing with her complaint. And they werent 
persuaded it needed to do anything more here. So they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. Ms B disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role requires me to look at this complaint impartially and while Ive had regard to all Ms B 
has said, I also have to be fair to Santander too.
The first part of Ms Bs complaint is about her concerns that Santander incorrectly recorded 
her address on the envelope she received containing its response to her DSAR. So, I'll focus 
on that issue first. 
Here Santander sent its DSAR response to Ms B by post due to difficulties she experienced 
in opening the datafile it had provided. I think this demonstrates it was trying to assist Ms B 
in accessing the information she had requested. 
Ive seen the envelope containing Santanders DSAR response  the address is handwritten 
and isnt an exact match to the way its recorded on Ms Bs customer profile or on the 
complaint form she sent our service. I can see this correspondence was sent to Ms B by 
recorded delivery and I understand it was safely received by her.
I appreciate that in using an inaccurate address Ms B feels Santander has breached data 
protection legislation. And I can see that our investigators already signposted her to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) should she wish to pursue this issue further. Our 
investigator was right to say the ICO is better placed than this service to look at an 
organisations handling of personal data because its not our role to decide whether a breach 
of data protection has taken place. So, I wont be commenting on this part of his complaint 
as this issue falls outside of our jurisdiction.
Like our investigator, Ill address whether I think Santander breached Ms Bs confidentiality. I 
recognise that shes annoyed and frustrated that her address wasnt recorded accurately. 
And, of course, I understand her concerns that confidential information about her current 
account could have been delivered to, and therefore fallen into the hands of, an 
unauthorised third party. But that didnt happen here. And, as our investigators told Ms B, 
our service has to consider what actually happened. So, we cant award compensation 
based on hypothetical and speculative situations.
Ive no doubt this was all inconvenient and upsetting to Ms B and I recognise that she would 
like our service to award compensation. But, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the 
impact of what happened warrants an award of compensation here. I say this because 
theres no evidence Ms B incurred a financial loss. And, as Ive already explained, the 
correspondence Santander sent her was safely received.
Ill turn now to the final part of Ms Bs complaint, which is that the information Santander sent 
her didnt answer the query shed raised. I realise what Santander sent might not have gone 
into the level of detail Ms B wanted or expected. But impartially, I think Santander provided 
the information it was able to.  
I know this wont be the response Ms B will want and I understand she feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given, I think Santander has 
done all it can to resolve this dispute. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.Julie Robertson
Ombudsman