DRN-4457343
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what Assurant General Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on 
his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B has mobile phone insurance with Assurant (provided as part of his packaged bank 
account). In August 2023 he contacted it to log an accidental damage claim and sent his 
phone to Assurant for repair. It received the device at on 21 August and three days later it 
was deemed beyond economic repair. A replacement was sent to Mr B on 25 August and 
received by him the following day. While Assurant had his phone Mr B made two calls to 
check on progress and was given incorrect information about this, including being given 
delivery tracking numbers that didnt work. 
Assurant accepted there had been a delay of a day in the phone being booked in with an 
engineer. And that Mr B had been given incorrect information when he contacted it. It paid 
him £50 in recognition of the impact of that. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr B didnt agree. He said hed had to call the 
insurers delivery agent to ensure the replacement phone was delivered to him and hed 
been misled about progress when he spoke to Assurant. He didnt feel the compensation 
offered was enough. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Assurant has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Bs policy does provide cover for damage and says where that occurs it will repair the 
mobile phone (where possible) or replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model 
and memory size. In this case Assurant found Mr Bs phone couldnt be repaired so it 
provided him with a replacement. And while Assurant has accepted there was a slight delay 
in the phone being booked in with an engineer, I dont think the overall timeframe here was 
unreasonable; a replacement was sent to Mr B four days after his phone had been received 
by Assurant. 
However, its accepted Mr B was provided with inaccurate information when he called 
Assurant to check on progress. In particular he was wrongly given a tracking number prior to 
the dispatch of his replacement phone and was subsequently given a different tracking 
number which was incorrect. Mr B has also said a call he had with Assurant was cut off. 
I appreciate all that will have been frustrating for Mr B and I can understand why that led him 
to make his own call to the insurers delivery agent. However, Ive also taken into account 
the relatively short timeframe involved and that making any insurance claim is likely in itself 
to involve some inconvenience to a consumer. Given all that I think the £50 Assurant has 
already paid is enough to recognise the impact of its errors on Mr B in this case.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman