DRN-3279460
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the advice by Profile Financial Solutions Limited (PFS) to switch her
pension was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs B had a paid-up pension plan which was invested in a With-Profits Fund with Prudential.
In 2015, PFS recommended Mrs B to switch her pension to Scottish Widows following a
cautious governed investment strategy. This meant her investments would start to move to
lower risk investments the closer she got to retirement.
Mrs B was 51 at the time and her intended retirement date was 67. Her attitude to risk was
cautious. PFSs suitability report said Mrs Bs prime objective was to assess whether it would
be appropriate to transfer her pension benefits. It said she wanted to investigate a transfer
which would provide:
- A reduction in your existing fees and charges
- Greater flexibility and options
- Fund choices which meet your current circumstances and are aligned to your attitude
to risk and will gradually move into lower risk investments as you approach your
selected retirement date
Mrs Bs existing plan had been paying an annual bonus of 2% for the past two years (and
higher bonuses before that). These were added during the term of the plan and once added
these bonuses were guaranteed. The plan also attracted an additional final bonus each year
(3.75% and 4.5% in 2013 and 2014 respectively). However, the final bonus wasnt
guaranteed and would only be paid when money was taken from the plan (for example at
retirement age or when transferring). This final bonus could be reduced or removed at any
time.
At the time of the advice, Mrs Bs plan had a value of around £41,000 which included a final
bonus of around £18,000. There were no explicit charges deducted from the fund value each 
year. All costs and charges of the With-Profits fund were implicit charges which Prudential 
allowed for when deciding how much of the investment returns would be used to provide 
bonuses. At the time of the advice Prudential said they expected the charges to be 1% a 
year assuming the return on the With-Profits Fund was 7% a year. Charges depended on 
investment returns and expenses. If returns over time were lower, Prudential said they would 
expect charges to be lower and if returns were higher charges could increase.
PFS charged an initial advice charge of 4.08% for the pension switch which was £1,696. The
charges in the new Scottish Widows plan were 0.67% per year (0.37% product charges plus
0.30% ongoing adviser charges).
Mrs B complained through a representative in 2020. She said the advice had been
unsuitable as the transfer was unnecessary and expensive. The advice had been based on
scaremongering about poor performance in the Prudential plan. She was also unhappy that
despite her request and letter of authority to deal with her representative, PFS refused to
engage with them which she said caused her additional inconvenience at a time she was
working long additional shifts due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
After PFS rejected the complaint it was referred to this service. An investigator considered
Mrs Bs complaint and upheld it. He didnt think the advice had been suitable as there
werent sufficient reasons here to justify a switch. So he asked PFS to compensate potential
financial losses using a benchmark. He didnt think being sent a letter or email directly by
PFS instead to her representative would have caused undue distress or inconvenience.
However, he awarded some compensation to recognise the concerns Mrs B would have had
when she found out the advice might not have been suitable and might impact her pension
benefits in retirement.
PFS didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision to the parties not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
I said:
Whilst it was mentioned Mrs B wanted more flexibility, for example in form of a drawdown
option, I cant see that a particular need for this was evident. She was still many years from
retirement and if she really wanted to access her pension flexibly at some point, she could
have sought advice then with a better idea of what she needed. There was no need to
transfer her pension in 2015 for this reason.
She also was not a particularly experienced or knowledgeable investor and had a cautious
attitude to risk, so I dont think a bigger fund choice or more options would have been
necessary or important for her. She transferred into a particular fund that would be
rebalanced and she would move to lower risk funds over time. However, I think the
smoothing of investment returns in the with-profits fund would have also guarded her against
losing substantial sums in the run up to retirement and presented the right amount of risk in
her circumstances.
So I dont think any of the above made a switch necessary. However, that doesnt mean the
recommendation to switch was unsuitable in these circumstances. Even including the initial
adviser fees, the new charges were still lower than in the Prudential plan. Scottish Widows
illustrations show that all charges reduced the growth rate by 0.9% whereas Prudentials
charges were 1%. Scottish Widows charges also include an ongoing adviser fee which
included an annual review of Mrs Bs circumstances to make sure her pension was still in
line with her attitude to risk and met her objectives. This is something she didnt have with
her old plan and the fact find stated that Mrs B received annual statements but didnt
understand them, so having ongoing advice would have been a potentially useful benefit.
I can see an annual review was done in 2016. PFSs records show that they tried to contact
Mrs B in 2017 but were unsuccessful and that she didnt respond to invitations for annual
reviews in later years. Mrs B also could have contacted PFS at any time if she wanted a
review or cancelled the ongoing service if she didnt think she needed it (which would have
reduced charges further by 0.3% a year).
Mrs B didnt have to pay any market value reductions when she switched and was able to
claim the final bonus available on her policy at the time which increased her transfer valueby around £18,000. She was switched into a cautious lifestyle strategy which I think was
suitable in her circumstances. For the first few years of the plan, her fund would have been
invested more in equities than her old plan which would have given her more potential for
growth whilst she was still a fairly long time away from retirement. I appreciate Mrs B was a
cautious investor, however given that she was still 16 years from her planned retirement and
this was a lifestyling fund which ensured she was more cautiously invested for the ten years
leading up to retirement, I think this was suitable. And the exposure to more equity in the first
few years did have the potential for Mrs B to have better returns in her new plan.
The suitability report said Mrs B was concerned that the final bonus might be reduced or
withdrawn by the time she retired. And this worry was not completely without merit. The final
bonus was not guaranteed and could be reduced or removed at any point. So there was this
risk. Of course the bonus could have also increased over the years until Mrs Bs retirement.
But by switching Mrs B was able to lock in the final bonus and would have had a more
transparent picture of what her retirement benefits might be going forward.
And whilst she might not have a strong need for the features set out above like flexibility or a
greater choice of funds, the new plan did give her those benefits. Her representative
mentioned she could have switched funds within her Prudential policy. However, having
looked at the fund choices available these were all more expensive.
So overall, I dont think the switch was unsuitable for Mrs B.
PFS communicated directly with Mrs B about her complaint rather than her representative
which they said caused her inconvenience and distress. However, complaint handling is not
a regulated activity, so I cant consider this aspect.
Response to my decision
Mrs B asked me to reconsider my decision. She made a number of points which in summary 
were:
She was cold called and never met with the adviser.
She was never offered ongoing advice. The annual review fact find from 2016 was 
never sent to her and does not relate to her circumstances.
Her existing plan had not been written to age 67. She was unaware this had 
happened on her new plan and this extension would have exaggerated returns.
She had other pension schemes with earlier retirement dates and she didnt want to 
defer or stagger her retirement.
She wasnt told that the annual bonuses couldnt be taken away once paid or that the 
terminal bonus could increase.
The new plan didnt have a lifestyle option.
The difference of 0.1% in charges would not recover the initial advice fee. 
The fact find didnt record any information about her income requirements or her 
husbands arrangements. The transfer was unjustifiable other than performance.
Alternatives to transfer werent discussed, for example switching funds within her 
plan or moving it into her occupational pension.
The Prudential plan had an A+ rating, had not withheld terminal bonuses and had 
shown growth without volatility whereas the new plan lost value in year one.
Her representatives also said they had asked an independent financial adviser for an 
opinion. This adviser said he had never known Prudential cancel a terminal bonus. He said 
his firm would move clients from a with-profits policy to a unitised investment based on their 
attitude to risk. They would recommend a move for long-term capital appreciation. If a client was low risk and insistent on keeping volatility as low as possible, they would however 
consider with-profits.
I carefully considered all of Mrs Bs and her representatives comments, however my 
decision has not changed.
Given the limited information on the fact find, it seems likely Mrs Bs full circumstances and 
her husbands information werent considered in full. I also dont have reason to doubt Mrs 
Bs testimony that she was cold called and didnt meet with the adviser. However, none of 
this changes the fact that I think a switch was suitable. 
Im still satisfied Mrs B switched into a plan that was cheaper. When the reduced growth of 
0.9% was calculated for the new plan, the initial advice charge was already factored in as 
well as all ongoing product and adviser charges. The recommended policy also included 
ongoing advice and had reasonable potential to outperform her existing plan due to slightly 
higher equity exposure in the following few years (as well as lower charges). It also was 
invested in a lifestyling fund which would invest more cautiously the nearer Mrs B got to 
retirement. Im satisfied the new plan was in line with her attitude to risk.
The fact find stated her intended retirement date was 67 and this was also shown in the 
suitability report Mrs B was sent. I would have expected Mrs B to challenge that if she didnt 
think this correctly reflected her plans. However, in any event, even if her other pension 
provisions had lower retirement ages, this didnt mean Mrs B couldnt take her benefits from 
her new pension plan earlier too if she wished to do so. Just like she could have deferred her 
other plans if she decided to retire later. She still had flexibility in this regard.
Its true that illustrations to a later retirement date would show higher projections when 
compared with a plan projected to say 60 or 65. However, I didnt base my decision on 
projected performance figures.
I also dont know if Mrs B was told about the annual bonus being locked in once paid or that 
the terminal bonus could also increase. That a terminal bonus is completely taken away 
might be unlikely. However, in order to make sure such a terminal bonus is paid, annual 
bonuses could have been reduced in future. As I said in my provisional decision, I think the 
switch secured a terminal bonus at a certain level and the new plan would have given Mrs B 
more transparency about her pension and its possible returns in future.
The evidence about annual reviews is limited. Theres a fact find from 2016 which I 
appreciate is not certain proof a review actually happened and Ive considered Mrs Bs 
testimony that she wasnt called or provided with anything in writing at the time. However, I 
also need to consider that this was about six years ago and its possible Mrs B simply might 
not remember a maybe unmemorable phone call, email or letter checking whether her 
circumstances and attitude to risk had substantially changed. The evidence for later review 
invitations is better. Ive seen PFSs internal screenshots which show Mrs B was invited for a 
review in April 2018 and PFS provided copies of several emails on their systems in August 
2019 which said PFS had sent her a letter to ask for her for her up-to-date circumstances 
and were chasing a reply-which they say they never received.
Based on the limited evidence Ive seen I think PFS was more likely than not inviting Mrs B 
for annual reviews over the years. In any event, as Ive said before, Mrs B also could have 
contacted PFS at any point. 
My decision remains unchanged.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman