DRN-3499685
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) were wrong not to process a chargeback 
claim he made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a credit card it might be 
possible for the bank to raise a chargeback request to get the money repaid.
The chargeback scheme is not administered by HSBC and they dont have to raise a 
chargeback although Id consider it good practice to do so. The administrators are Visa and 
they set strict rules about timescales within which claims need to be made. Here, the 
deadline for making a claim expired before HSBC had enough evidence to submit a claim on 
Mr Ds behalf and that meant they had to reverse the refund they had provided.
I dont think HSBC were at fault for the delays that led to the deadline being missed. I say 
that because I can see they had regularly requested information from Mr D to demonstrate 
the error and it hadnt been supplied. They sent forms requesting that evidence on several 
occasions in June and July 2021. And, after the chargeback was reversed they tried to call 
Mr D and issued a further letter to him when they couldnt reach him.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence HSBC did anything wrong here and Im not 
upholding the complaint.
However, as its suggested Mr D made his payments through a credit card it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
I can see that HSBC are now processing a section 75 claim on Mr Ds behalf. That doesnt 
mean the claim will necessarily be successful as HSBC will need evidence of the problem. 
But there are no time limits for a section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman