The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Trustee Savings Bank Plc (TSB) wont set up her individual savings 
account (ISA) at the higher interest rate she originally applied for.
What happened
In late April 2019, Ms R applied online for TSBs three-year fixed rate ISA with a rate of 
1.85%. Ms R wanted to transfer funds from an account she had with another bank. And to do 
this she sent the transfer request form to TSB. But TSB returned the form as Ms R hadnt 
fully completed it, as she hadnt included her ISA account details. Ms R said she returned 
the form back to TSB fully completed as requested.
In June 2019, Ms R saw the funds hadnt been transferred from her other account and she 
went into a TSB branch to find out what was happening. Ms R said she was told TSB had 
lost her form. She said she was advised to make another ISA application and was told as it 
was a bank error TSB would honour the higher interest rate. Ms R made another 
application for the ISA in June 2019, but this had a lower interest rate of 1.3%. She 
complained to TSB.
TSB said they returned the incomplete ISA transfer form to Ms R in early May 2019. And 
they havent any record of having received the completed form back. As Ms R hadnt 
questioned this until after 30 days, her original application had been closed. So, they couldnt 
apply the higher interest rate.
Ms R said if shed known they wouldnt increase the interest rate she wouldnt have opened 
the other ISA with TSB. But would have looked elsewhere for a better offer. And had only 
made the application on the understanding she would get the higher interest rate applied to 
it.Ms R wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said she couldnt hold TSB responsible for not receiving the returned form. 
And that theyd followed their procedures. Ms R didnt agree and has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Rs frustration as shed wanted to open the three-year ISA with the 
interest rate of 1.85%. And she has repeated that she was told while in the TSB branch that 
DRN-1987211any error would be rectified. So, in determining my decision, I need to consider whether TSB 
has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Ms R.
Ms R wanted to transfer funds from another account she had into a TSB three-year Fixed 
Rate ISA that had an interest rate of 1.85%. She made her on line application at the end of 
April 2019. Part of the process is the manual completion of a transfer of funds form. And Ms 
R did send this form to TSB, after she made her on line application. But she hadnt fully 
completed it. Its not in dispute that TSB returned the incomplete transfer form to Ms R in 
early May 2019. But Ive not seen any evidence, except for Ms Rs testimony, to show she 
returned the form. And TSB has no record of the form having been received back to them. 
So, while I could accept Ms R returned the form, I cant hold TSB responsible for not 
actioning her transfer instructions as theyve shown they didnt get the form back.
I have looked to see whether Ms R would have known that she only had 30 days to transfer 
the funds before TSB would close the account. I can see TSBs terms and conditions for 
Fixed Rate ISA accounts say:
All deposits, including transfers, must be received within 30 days of opening your account.
Ms R made her application at the end of April 2019, so she would have had till the end of 
May 2019 to complete the transfer of her funds. But it wasnt until June 2019 when Ms R 
said she saw the funds hadnt been transferred that she went into the TSB branch. As this 
was after 30 days, I cant say that TSB did anything wrong by closing Ms Rs account.
TSB dont have a record of what was said to Ms R in branch. But from Ms Rs account she 
was assured that the interest rate would be honoured as it was a bank error as the bank 
had lost  the form. But as Ive outlined above, I dont think TSB has made an error as the 
form couldnt have been lost  by them as I cant see that they received it back. Im satisfied 
there hasnt been an error made by TSB, and the action they took was in line with their terms 
and conditions. 
Ms R has said she would have gone elsewhere for a higher interest rate if shed known that 
she would only get the 1.3%. But Ive not seen any evidence that Ms R had looked 
elsewhere or that there were better offers for her to consider. So, I cant make any 
consideration for loss of opportunity.
I know Ms R will be disappointed with my decision. But I think TSB has acted fairly and 
reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14August2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman