DRN-2678363
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled a disputed payment made to his credit
card.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 February 2021. In my provisional decision I explained how I intended to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. I said: 
In early July 2017 Mr C made a payment over the phone to his credit card provider for £850.
In mid August 2017 Mr C contacted TSB as he didnt recognise the £850 payment on his
bank statements. TSB raised a fraud query and refunded the £850 payment to Mr Cs
current account.
In September 2017 TSB took the payment from the current account again as Mr C confirmed
it was genuine.
In April 2018 Mr Cs credit card provider charged him £850 for the payment reversal that had
taken place in August 2017. Mr Cs credit card provider also charged him around £75 in
additional interest. Mr C says he contacted the credit card provider and was told TSB had
applied a payment reversal to his account in April 2018, which is why he was charged.
At the end of May 2018 Mr C emailed TSB and complained that he had been overcharged
due to the payment reversal. Mr C explained he had difficulties accessing his online account
statements, had been cut off by TSB after being on hold for over two and a half hours while
waiting to speak with the fraud department and had spent several hours chasing a resolution
to the issue.
TSB responded to Mr Cs complaint on 2 January 2019 but didnt agree it had made an error
in the way his payments were handled. TSB explained that, due to a change in its systems
and IT problems, online and mobile banking access had been impacted and apologised for
the inconvenience caused. TSB paid Mr C £50 to cover his expenses, £75 to cover the
additional interest he had incurred on his credit card and £100 in respect of the distress and
inconvenience caused. TSB also added interest which brought the total amount to £229.72.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the
investigation, TSB agreed to refund the £850 disputed payment to Mr C. The investigator
also said TSB should pay Mr C 8% interest on the £850 and later recommended a further
£100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept. On his behalf, Mr Cs representative explained that the delays and errors
in TSBs investigation meant he was without £850 for an extended period. Mr Cs son also
pointed out that he had to obtain and provide further evidence by way of credit card
statements to show he had been overcharged as a result of TSBs actions. Mr Cs
representative highlighted that over two and half years after the funds were retaken from the
credit card the situation remained unresolved. As Mr Cs representative asked to appeal, the
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the issue of Mr Cs credit card payment has been ongoing for a very long time
and I understand how frustrating that has been. Im very pleased that TSB has agreed to
issue a refund of the disputed £850 payment. The credit card statements Ive seen show Mr
C did lose out as he appears to have been double charged for the payment in question.
The investigator recommended that, in addition to TSB refunding the £850 payment to Mr B,
it pays him an additional 8% interest. As Mr C hasnt had the use of those funds since he
was charged in April 2018, I think thats a reasonable approach.
TSB has already paid Mr C a total of £229.72, including an award of £50 for his costs and
£75 to cover the additional interest he was charged by his credit card provider. Once TSB
refunds the £850 as set out above, Mr B will be back in the correct position in terms of
whether hes suffered a financial loss.
The investigator also recommended increasing the award by a further £100, taking the total
award for the way TSB handled the situation to £200. Mr Cs representative has explained
that the award doesnt reflect the length of time the situation has gone on for or the
difficulties experienced by not having access to a reasonably large sum of money during that
period. Mr C also had to engage with his credit card provider and ultimately send in several
years worth of credit card statements covering the period in question which has further
impacted the level of inconvenience caused.
I agree that the service Mr C has received over a long period has caused a reasonable level
of trouble and upset. TSB acknowledges that statements and account information that
couldve helped Mr C get a better understanding of what happened werent always available
because of systems changes and IT problems. TSB has further confirmed that technical
problems within the business significantly delayed its investigation into Mr Cs complaint.
And, it was only once Mr C provided extensive statements and information from the credit
card provider that TSB agreed to refund the disputed £850.
I understand technical issues and systems problems arent something TSB can control. But,
I think its clear that in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, theyve added to the distress
and inconvenience caused. I agree with Mr C and his representative that £200 total
compensation isnt a fair way to resolve the complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr C and his representative have told us about the
impact of the issues raised. As our investigator has said, its not our role to fine or punish a
business for making mistakes. Our awards seek to recognise how a complaint has affected a
consumer. In this case, I think a fairer approach is to increase the overall award for the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C to a total of £400. In my view, that figure more
fairly recognises the problems highlighted by Mr C and the impact on him.  
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted me 
to take into account before I made my final decision. Mr Cs representative responded to say 
£400 didnt reflect the length of time the situation had gone on for of the impact caused. TSB responded to say it had no new information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Cs representatives response to my provisional decision. I understand 
the refund has taken a long time to be agreed. Mr Cs representative has explained that TSB 
refused to accept responsibility for the issue and that it unfairly withheld his funds. I can see 
that there was an impact on Mr C by the issue and that he remains upset. 
Whilst I understand my decision will likely disappoint Mr C, I remain of the view that the £400 
compensation I awarded for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair way to settle his 
complaint. Im not trying to minimise the upset caused to Mr C and I agree that the refund 
remained outstanding for a very long time, but in my view £400 fairly reflects the impact of 
TSBs error on Mr C and is fair in all the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given above, I still think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. As I havent 
changed my view on how to fairly resolve Mr Cs complaint Im going to proceed in line with 
my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr C £850 plus 8% interest from April 2018 to the date of settlement
- Pay Mr C a further £300 (taking the total award to £400) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman