DRN-3393361
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his previous car insurance broker Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited as it hadnt taken money from him for his policy. His policy was then cancelled and 
Mr S thought he would have time to pay, but the full amount owing was taken from his bank 
account causing him, he said, to go overdrawn.
 
What happened
Mr Ss policy, paid for by a finance agreement, was due to renew in July 2021. After 
changing his mind, it did eventually renew, but a miscommunication between the brokers 
and financiers systems meant no monthly payment was set up. And nor was it noticed the 
policy wasnt being paid for. 
In January 2022 Mr S called Brightside to advise of some modifications made to his car. The 
lack of payment for the policy was then noted, and Brightside found the policy couldnt 
continue anyway due to the modifications. Brightside said Mr S would have to cancel the 
policy and pay it the £486 owing for cover to date. It said he would have seven days to pay 
this. Mr S disputed the charge, he felt he shouldnt have to pay, and certainly not all in one 
go given Brightside had made the mistake in not taking monthly payments from him.
Brightside agreed to give Mr S time to pay the outstanding amount, but said it did have to be 
paid. It accepted though that it had made an error in not arranging the monthly payment as it 
should have done and said it would waive the £60 policy cancellation charge, making the 
total owed to it £426. Four days later Brightside took £486 from Mr Ss bank account and 
Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator felt Brightside had failed Mr S  not just in failing to set up his monthly 
payments, but in taking the full £486 of premiums from him when it had agreed to reduce 
that sum and make a payment arrangement. She said it should refund him the £60, and pay 
a further £100 compensation.
Brightside said Mr S hadnt contacted it to make a payment arrangement and it had taken 
the money as allowed by the terms of business Mr S had agreed to. His complaint was 
passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I intend to uphold it, for the same reasons as our Investigator. Mr S was 
always responsible for paying Brightside for the time he had cover for. But I think Brightside 
failed Mr S here  and whilst it attempted to put right the consequences of its first failure, it 
didnt do so effectively as it attempted to, and then did, collect the amount owed in line with 
its usual terms of business. So Mr S was caused worry and inconvenience because money 
was taken from his account which he had been assured would not happen (because the only 
reason it was all due and owing in one lump sum was because Brightside had failed to set 
up the monthly payment plan). 
I understand that Brightside thinks an award of compensation, beyond the £60 cancellation 
fee it said it would waive but didnt, is unfair in this instance, as it took payment from Mr S in 
line with the policy terms. But this is not about policy terms. This is about what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And here Brightsides own systems, and/or its agents 
running those systems, caused Mr S to be in a position where, out of the blue, he owed it a 
large sum of money. The fair and reasonable outcome for that, as Brightside offered, would 
be for Mr S to have a chance to pay that money back over a period of time. But Brightside 
acted in such a way as to prevent Mr S from being able to do that  despite the fact it noted 
this is what it should do. So, despite what the terms of busines usually allow, its demand for 
payment was unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances. As was it taking the total sum 
from Mr Ss account, particularly when it had told him just a few days earlier that a payment 
arrangement could be made. 
Mr S was caused upset and inconvenience due to Brightsides failure. It is only right he is 
compensated for that. Im satisfied that the total Brightside should pay to Mr S for this is 
£160  made up of the £60 waived cancellation fee which should have been deducted from 
the total owed by Mr S, and £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I require Brightside, to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S, to pay 
him a total of £160 (£100 plus a refund of the £60 cancellation fee).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to pay the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman