DRN-3012846
The complaint
Mr S complains about the closure of ISAs he held with Family Equity Plan Limited (trading as
OneFamily) who provide ISAs branded with a high street name.
 
What happened
Mr S said his ISA accounts had been closed by OneFamily. He said that he hadnt requested 
this, and when he saw an error message saying this was what had happened, he contacted 
OneFamily straight away to tell it to cancel this request. But he said no one had done 
anything about his message, his ISAs had been closed, and so Mr S had lost the tax-free 
benefits associated with his ISAs. Hed also had to pay a charge for closing some of his ISAs 
early.
Mr S thought that OneFamily had let him down, and he wanted us to help him sort this out. 
OneFamily said that what Mr S had with it was a holding account, and a number of separate 
sub-accounts which were each ISA products. He had one easy access ISA, and three 
individual fixed-term, fixed-rate rate ISAs, each with its own individual expiry date.
What Mr S had wanted to do, was to move money from an account which had just ended its 
fixed term, fixed rate, and pay that money into his easy access ISA. Hed asked OneFamily 
to do this, but these accounts were self-service, and he had to move money himself.
OneFamily acknowledged that it had incorrectly sent Mr S instructions not to move money 
from his fixed term account, but to close his easy access ISA and move money into his 
holding account instead, on 29 May 2020.
Mr S sent two further messages on 29 May. OneFamily said that the first reply it sent gave 
correct instructions on how to move money from the holding account into an easy access 
ISA. The second reply wasnt sent until after Mr S had incorrectly closed his easy access 
ISA. OneFamily then confirmed that closure.
OneFamily said it had sent a further reply on 1 June, but it hadnt appreciated then what had 
gone wrong. Mr S had incorrectly closed his easy access ISA, when hed only intended to 
move money from his holding account into this ISA.
OneFamily said that it later responded to Mr S, on 4 June, to confirm he had closed his ISA 
accounts entirely. It set out for us the process Mr S had to go through to do this, and said 
that it hadnt issued any instructions telling Mr S to do this.
OneFamily said that it could see that Mr S had sent messages asking to reverse his account 
closure. And it also knew hed called, and spoken to its agents about this, in an attempt to 
get these messages actioned. But OneFamily said that once it receives an instruction to 
withdraw money, that cant be cancelled or changed. And it pointed to where this is set out in 
the terms of its accounts.
OneFamily said that unfortunately Mr Ss messages hadnt been picked up until later, but 
even if theyd been seen at the time, OneFamily still couldnt have stopped the account 
closure.
Our investigator said that hed checked the secure messages that Mr S had sent, and he 
could see Mr S had messaged OneFamily on 1 June 2020, to say that hed closed his 
accounts by mistake, and he wanted OneFamily to cancel the request to close the accounts. 
And on calls with OneFamily in early June, Mr S had said that he thought hed closed his 
accounts. So our investigator thought that this was unfortunately what had happened.
Our investigator said that OneFamily had shown him the process for closing an account, and 
our investigator thought that this process was clear, so Mr S knew what he was doing.
Our investigator explained that HMRC doesnt allow OneFamily to reverse a withdrawal once 
it has been made. Our investigator said that the accounts Mr S had with OneFamily were 
self-service, so he had to operate it himself. And unfortunately, our investigator thought that 
Mr S had just closed his accounts himself, by mistake. Our investigator didnt think 
OneFamily had done anything wrong.
Mr S repeated that he hadnt closed these accounts himself, it was a mistake by OneFamily, 
or a technical error with the website. And he said hed been in touch with OneFamily about 
this, straight away. He said his account closure wasnt processed until a couple of days later, 
so he thought that OneFamily could still have cancelled this. He said that the HMRC rules 
about not reopening accounts only apply once the account has been closed.
Our investigator said that he understood Mr S had been in touch with OneFamily straight 
away, but he said that it wasnt able to reply to all messages straight away. And by the time 
that Mr Ss message was picked up, the closure had been actioned. Given that this 
happened during the pandemic, our investigator said that some delays were to be expected.
Mr S still maintained that he hadnt agreed to the final closure of his accounts. Mr S said he 
hadnt clicked yes on any box to agree to account closure. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Ive looked at the secure messages that Mr S sent, and listened to the calls he had 
with OneFamily. I know that Mr S has told us that he didnt click the box to agree to 
account closure, and that there must have been some technical problem. But I dont 
think that fits well with the messages he sent at the time, and the call recordings from 
the time that Ive listened to. I think its more likely that what happened was 
something Mr S did by mistake. I dont think that this was done by OneFamily without 
his instructions, or that it was the result of a technical failure on OneFamilys website.
I can see that Mr Ss ISA accounts with OneFamily were all closed on 2 June 2020. I 
think this was as a result of a request Mr S mistakenly made on 31 May.
Mr S has paid breakage charges, for fixed term ISAs which were closed early. And 
hes lost the benefit of the ISA wrapper for all of his ISA sub-accounts.
OneFamily cannot simply reopen these accounts now. The tax rules that cover ISAs 
dont allow it to do that.OneFamily has set out the process for closing all of Mr Ss ISAs, and said that it 
thinks he shouldve known what he was doing when he went through that process. 
But its also sent us the messages it sent to Mr S. One of these provides instructions 
for closing his easy access account (which wasnt what he wanted to do). Those 
instructions do seem quite similar to the process Mr S eventually followed, 
presumably by accident, which resulted in all of his sub-accounts being closed.
I do think that the primary responsibility for closing his accounts remains with Mr S. 
Ive explained that I think its most likely that he made this request, by mistake. I 
know Mr S messaged OneFamily about this straight away, and he also rang, to try to 
stop the closure. But once Mr S had made the request for his accounts to be closed, I 
think that OneFamilys terms make clear that it cant be cancelled. So I dont think the 
delay in responding to his messages affected the outcome of this case.
For those reasons, I dont think that OneFamily needs to pay Mr S everything hes 
lost, including breakage charges and lost interest, from the closure of these ISAs.
But I do think OneFamily has provided Mr S with poor service, and that it has added 
to the confusion in this case, by initially sending Mr S the wrong instructions. So I 
think that OneFamily should pay Mr S £100 in compensation, to make up for that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. OneFamily said it accepted my decision, but Mr S wanted to make 
some further points.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that the offer of £100 compensation wasnt acceptable. Although his account was 
supposed to be self-administered, he said that the communications system for getting help 
was very poor. He said replies were late, and he didnt get calls back. 
Mr S set out that he believed there had been a malfunctioning of OneFamilys IT system on 
Sunday 31st May 2020. Mr S said that the website kept shutting down with error messages 
saying, something went wrong, technical error please try again later. He said this finally 
resulted in total closure of his accounts, with no reason given. Mr S said the only message 
was We are experiencing some technical difficulties with our site. Were sorry for any 
inconvenience and are working to fix the issues as soon as possible. And he said he wasnt 
able to get into his accounts to check the transactions.
Mr S also said that no reply to his secure messages on 3, 5 and 9 June was received until 
19 June 2020 at 1605 hours. Mr S said hed been told on 1 June that his concern would be 
passed to the technical and complaints team, and promised that someone would contact him 
by phone within the next 24 to 48 hours. No one contacted him. 
Mr S said that OneFamily had told him that .. Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) 
will not allow us to cancel a withdrawal once it has been processed. But closure of his 
accounts wasnt processed until two days after the closure, on 2 June. He said he wasnt 
consulted about this, but he suggested that the terms of his account required him to call or 
write for the accounts to be closed. Mr S also said that an account closure should be confirmed by an email or secure message. 
Mr S said his accounts were automatically shut down with the message on top of the screen 
closure of account please contact the adviser. He said he tried to call the number given, 
but as it was late Sunday evening he couldnt get through. And Mr S said when he did speak 
to someone, they couldnt see anything wrong with his accounts. 
Mr S repeated that he didnt request or agree to closure of his accounts, he just wanted to 
make a transfer. He said hed asked repeatedly for evidence that he had agreed to closure 
of his accounts, but he hadnt received that evidence. Without that, he said the terms of his 
account dont apply. 
Finally Mr S said he had been affected financially by the loss of his income tax free ISA
status allowance. He said hed lost interest, and paid a breakage charge. He said this had 
been a very difficult and stressful time for him, trying to sort out this issue, and he wanted the 
claim to be settled in full, as hed originally requested. 
Ive listened again to the calls that Mr S had with OneFamily, which were on 2 and 3 June. 
Theres no reference in those calls to any earlier calls, on 1 June. And what Mr S says now 
about problems on the website which resulted in his account being closed, doesnt seem to 
me to fit well with what I can hear on those calls. 
I know that Mr S got some wrong information on those calls, because he was initially told his 
accounts hadnt been closed, when the request to do this had already been made, and 
would shortly be processed. I think this was part of the poor service OneFamily provided to 
Mr S, and I took this into account in my provisional decision. 
But I think its important that Mr S didnt mention any problems with the website 
malfunctioning, when he spoke to an agent. What he said on 2 June was I was doing 
something, I think I probably clicked something else.... And on 3 June he said It was a 
mistake and what happened was I must have pressed the wrong button. So I still think its 
more likely that Mr S closed these accounts himself, by mistake. I still dont think that this 
account closure was done by OneFamily without his instructions, or that it was the result of a 
technical failure on OneFamilys website.
I also dont think that Mr S was promised a call back within 24 hours, which didnt happen. I 
can hear on the call on 2 June, that the agent said that she would send a message down to 
the technical team, because she didnt know what had gone wrong. That agent did say she 
would call Mr S back at some point, but she didnt give a timeframe for that. Mr S then rang 
back and spoke to the same agent again the next day.
Mr S said that he thought OneFamily could only close his accounts with either his written 
instruction, or after a phone call from him asking it to close the accounts. But the key facts 
for this account set out that The Online ISA could be right for you if you would like to 
manage your cash ISA savings through an online account. The Online ISA cannot be 
accessed by telephone, post or at  branches. The terms also say that the account can 
only be closed online. So I think it was clear that this account can be closed online, and cant 
be closed by post or by phone. 
I think that OneFamily has done enough to show that Mr S closed these accounts, although I 
understand he didnt intend to do so. I wouldnt expect OneFamily to be able to show our 
service screenshots of Mr Ss actions when he pressed to confirm the account closure, and I 
wouldnt agree that the terms of Mr Ss account dont apply to him because OneFamily cant 
provide that.I understand that Mr Ss accounts werent closed immediately. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, once Mr S had made the request for his accounts to be closed, I think 
that OneFamilys terms make clear that it cant be cancelled. So I dont think the delay in 
responding to his messages affected the outcome of this case.
Ive considered Mr Ss further representations, as well as the additional evidence, but I 
havent changed my mind. Im sorry to hear that this has been such a stressful experience 
for Mr S, but I still dont think that the closure of his accounts was OneFamilys fault. So I do 
still think that a fair and reasonable outcome to this case, is for OneFamily to pay Mr S £100 
in compensation for the service failures I noted above.
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Family Equity Plan Limited must pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman