DRN-3757842
The complaint
Company G (G) complains Revolut Ltd closed their merchant account without notice nor 
explanation, and it refunded customer payments causing them substantive financial loss.  
What happened
In February 2022, G opened a business account with Revolut which operationalised around 
1 March 2022. G also opened a merchant account with Revolut around this time. This 
allowed G to accept online card payments from its customers.
In early March 2022, when first using the merchant services, Gs customers faced issues 
with putting their payments through. But a little later, G were able to us the service and they 
received around 70 payments from their customers. 
A few days later, Gs merchant account was restricted and Revolut asked them to provide 
information relating to the payments it had received such as invoices or customer 
agreements. Revolut also asked G to send it details of its warehouse facility, rental 
agreement, and shipping procedures. G sent Revolut information it had requested. 
After carrying out its review, Revolut decided to close Gs merchant account and all the 
payments made into it by their customers were refunded back to them. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, G complained. Revolut said certain aspects of Gs business 
didnt conform to its policies. So it closed Gs merchant account, and their customers 
payments have been refunded. Revolut signposted G to the terms of the account. 
G referred their complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, and in 
summary, they found: 
- Revolut is entitled to close the account if it chooses to do so if it gives reasonable 
notice. Revolut closed the account immediately. However this was done in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account  
- Revolut doesnt need to give an explanation to G for its actions 
- Under the terms of the account, Revolut acted appropriately when returning the funds 
back to Gs customers 
G did not agree, they say its unfair payments made to them have been refunded when 
theyve already sent the goods. So they argue they have suffered significant financial loss 
without reasonable justification. 
As G dont agree, their complaint has now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint G, so Ill 
explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Revolut 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Revoluts reasons for restricting, and placing Gs merchant account under 
review, Im satisfied its done so in line with its obligations. 
Revolut is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Revolut closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the merchant account, which Revolut and G had to comply with, 
say it could close the account by giving some notice  this is typically two months. But in 
certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. The relevant 
term for business customers says: 
We may close or suspend your account immediately, and end your access to our website, 
in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional circumstances include, for example the following:
-if we have good reason to suspect that you are behaving fraudulently or otherwise 
criminally;
-if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information we need, 
or we have good reason to believe that information you have provided is incorrect or 
not true;
-if you've broken these terms and conditions in a serious or persistent way (for 
example, if we discover that you're carrying out a business activity that you are not 
allowed to carry out while you have a Revolut account);
-we've asked you to repay money you owe us and you haven't done so within a 
reasonable time;
-we have good reason to believe that your use of the Revolut Dashboard and Revolut 
account could damage our reputation or goodwill;
-there's been a change in the beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued 
share capital of your business or a change in a person who holds legal power to 
manage your business;
-we have good reason to believe that you've disposed of significant business assets;
-we have good reason to believe that your use of the Revolut Dashboard is harmful to 
us or our software, systems or hardware;
-you are a sole trader and you die or you are a partner in a business and the 
partnership ends;
-there's been an important change in the type of business activities you carry out;-you've been declared bankrupt or insolvent, are being wound up, or a similar event is 
taking place; or
-we have to do so under any law, regulation, court order or instructions of an 
ombudsman.
If we close your account in exceptional circumstances, you will only be able to exchange 
funds into your base currency and send money via external bank transfer before the account 
is closed. You will not be able to credit the account, make card payments, withdraw money 
at an ATM, or send money to other Revolut accounts. Any inbound payments will be rejected 
and returned to the sender
Having looked at the information given to me by Revolut, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. I know G would like an explanation why Revolut has 
taken the actions it has, but it is under no obligation to so. 
This brings me onto the crux of Gs complaint. That is, Revolut have not acted fairly by 
refunding around 70 payments to Gs customers despite the goods being dispatched.  
I can appreciate why G has taken this position. But G is a commercial enterprise, and as 
such the contracts and terms of agreement it enters are different to that of a private 
individual. This can also affect its rights given a private individual may be afforded different 
protections under law. Also, in broad terms, any business agreements G enters into are 
done so at their commercial discretion and risk. So there is a greater onus on them to have 
read the terms and conditions before entering into them. 
The merchant account G had with Revolut is also subject to its Payment Processing Terms. 
They say that If there is any inconsistency between the Revolut Business terms or the Pro 
Terms and these Terms, these Terms will apply in respect of the inconsistency. So, Im 
satisfied that these terms are most applicable to G and its merchant account complaint. 
These terms contain a provision which go onto say that we [Revolut] think your business is 
exposing us to an unacceptable risk, then we may immediately terminate or suspend your 
use of the Services, or refuse, refund, condition, or suspend the activities we think are in 
breach. We may also do this if we think you are trying to or are likely to do one of these 
things, even if you don't actually do it. 
Based on the information Revolut has given me, Im satisfied that its applied its terms fairly 
in the circumstances of this complaint. So that means, Im persuaded refunding the 
payments back to the source accounts was fair and reasonable. G entered a business 
relationship with Revolut, and by doing so accepted the terms of its account. 
Id like to assure G that Ive very carefully considered their points here about losing the 
payments and the goods they were for. But for the reasons above, I dont think Revolut have 
done anything wrong.  
Having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Revolut given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own 
procedures when it closed Gs merchant account and returning the funds in it to source.
So Im not going to ask Revolut to compensate G for any trouble this may have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman