DRN-2623889
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in September 2014. 
Mrs H paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mrs H says 
that she was told that she had to take out this account in order to get a large overdraft facility 
and to have a better chance of getting a mortgage.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mrs H did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mrs Hs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mrs H, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs H was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that 
she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax for 
many years. So, I think that Mrs H wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were 
an option for her. 
Mrs H says she was told by a member of staff in branch that if she changed her account to 
the URCA it would give her a better chance in obtaining a mortgage and a larger overdraft. I 
can see though that the account, when it was upgraded to the URCA from the fee free 
account, was taken out online without the presence of a member of staff. I find it unlikely that 
a member of staff would intentionally mis-lead Mrs H into taking out an URCA if the account 
was not to be taken out in branch as I cant see how this would benefit the member of staff 
since they would not receive credit or recognition for the upgrade.
Additionally, during the online upgrade process the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted. I am of the understanding that there would have been no 
mention of the account improving Mrs Hs chances in obtaining a mortgage or larger 
overdraft. So, if this was the major reason for her to upgrade to the URCA, the absence of 
anything mentioning an improvement to her chances of obtaining a mortgage or larger 
overdraft shouldve made her question if what she says she was told was true.
I accept that Mrs H may have been under the impression that having the URCA would 
improve her chances of getting a mortgage, but there is not enough for me to say that this 
was as a direct result of her being told this by Halifax.
I note that Mrs H has explained that she also took out the account in order to increase her 
overdraft facility and I can see that there were a number of applications for an increased 
overdraft facility around this time that were declined. Moreover, Mrs H says her application 
for a mortgage a few months after the upgrade was also declined. I think had this been the 
sole reason she upgraded she wouldve downgraded her account or raised a complaint 
about this at the time.
I note that Mrs H says she did not need the benefits that the account came with as she held 
them elsewhere on a different packaged account with a different provider. But I cant see 
why she could not have downgraded that account if she wished to do so and instead rely on 
the URCA.
Overall, I think that Mrs H took out the account knowing she did not have to and the reason 
that she took it out was not due to Halifax misleading her, but was likely because of the 
package of benefits that it came with. Again, I accept she may have been under the 
mistaken belief that it would increase her chances of obtaining credit, but there is not enough 
to say this is due to Halifaxs actions.
This account was not recommended to Mrs H. This means that Halifax did not need to 
ensure that the benefits were suitable for Mrs H. But it did need to provide Mrs H with 
enough information to decide this for herself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned during the online sales process what the major 
benefits that the account came with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem 
attractive to Mrs H. I accept that Mrs H may not have been told everything about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I cant see anything about her circumstances at the 
time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she 
been given more information about it. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mrs H. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mrs H the account fees 
that shes been charged whilst shes held the URCA. I completely understand that this will be 
frustrating to Mrs H as she strongly feels that her account was mis-sold. I also understand 
that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA may not have represented good value for money 
to her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this. I can only uphold the complaint about the 
sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it 
was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman