DRN-3254555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with their 
travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs L has travel insurance through her bank account, underwritten by AXA. Mr and Mrs L 
travelled to Dubai as planned on 16 March 2020. They were due to fly to Seychelles on 18 
March until 25 March 2020 before returning to the UK, via Dubai, as part of a package 
holiday. Separate accommodation was booked in the Seychelles. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) , 
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but essential 
travel and so Mr and Mrs L returned to the UK from Dubai on 19 March 2020, staying in 
Dubai for an additional night. 
Mrs L made a claim for the cost of the full holiday but AXA declined the claim on the basis 
that there were no unused costs. In addition, Mrs L had received a refund of their separately 
booked accommodation in the Seychelles and wasnt claiming for that. 
Mrs L complained as she said she was told by an adviser before they travelled that they 
would be fully covered. And is unhappy that AXA hasnt refunded the flight costs between 
Dubai and the Seychelles. 
AXA offered Mrs L compensation for the poor customer service experience totalling £355 but 
she remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA had unfairly declined the 
claim. Mrs L disagreed and in summary, said:
She was told she would receive the full cost of the holiday 
AXA gave her incorrect information and had it told her she wouldnt receive the full 
cost of the holiday back, she would have taken out alternative insurance 
AXAs offer of compensation doesnt make up for lack of care and costs in time and 
phone bills 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover for curtailment and says:
Curtailment/Curtail/Curtailed means: 
You abandoning or cutting short the trip after you leave your homeby direct early 
return to your homein which case claims will be calculated from the day you 
returned to your home or place of business (whichever is the earlier) and based on 
the number of complete days of your trip you have not used
And under the cancellation and curtailment section the policy says:
We will pay you up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K  
Ski pack and Section Q  Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel 
and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid 
charges (including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses incurred if...the Trip is curtailed before completionas a result of any of 
the following events occurringA government directive prohibiting all travel to, or 
recommending evacuation from, the country or area you were planning to visit or 
were staying in provided such a directive came into force after you have left the 
United Kingdom.
Under the what is not covered section, the policy says:
The cost of your unused original tickets where AXA assistance or we have arranged 
and paid for you to come home following curtailment of the trip...
Section Q, travel disruption cover, says:
We will pay you up to £5,000 for your unused travel, accommodation (including 
excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges that you cannot claim back from 
any other source together with any reasonable additional traveland 
accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-booked 
travel and accommodation if you have toCurtail your trip with prior authorisation of 
AXA Assistance as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory authority in the country you are in 
recommending evacuation from the country or specific area you have travelled to 
providing the advice came into force after you left your home area to commence the 
trip.
Under the what is not covered section, the policy says:
Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the public transport operator 
or their booking agents, your tour operator or travel agent (or their administrators), or 
for which you receive or are expected to receive compensation, damages, refund of 
ticket, meals, refreshments, accommodation, transfers, communication facilities or 
other assistance.
As Mr and Mrs L booked a package holiday, their travel provider re-arranged their flights and 
an additional night of accommodation in Dubai. The travel provider confirmed there were nounused costs as the airline had re-scheduled their return flights, the costs of which exceeded 
the original flight costs. Ive seen an invoice from the travel provider confirming there were 
£0 of unused costs. The cost of the total package wasnt broken down or split into different 
elements. And so, Mr and Mrs L didnt have any irrecoverable or unused costs. 
Mrs L says she was told she would get a full refund of her holiday. AXA apologised for any 
incorrect information given and paid a total amount of £355 compensation which I think is 
reasonable. The policy terms are clear. Mrs L says she wants the costs of the whole 
package refunded as their trip was cut short. But the trip wasnt cancelled in full, they used 
some elements of the package (the outbound flight and accommodation in Dubai).
As Mr and Mrs L had used the outbound flight and had started their trip, they would only be 
covered for the remaining flight, accommodation and other costs if they were unused and 
irrecoverable. Mr and Mrs L received a refund of the accommodation they didnt use, and 
the return flight and internal flights were re-scheduled by the travel provider and airline to 
return them to the UK. Had AXA covered the claim, it would have deducted the internal and 
return flight costs from any additional return flight costs and so Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have 
received a refund in any event.
As this was a package holiday, under The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR), the travel provider recovered and rearranged flights and 
confirmed to AXA that there were no unused costs and so AXA has no evidence of any 
unused costs to pay.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but she didnt have to cancel the holiday, instead, it was cut 
short. The costs of the flights which werent used were paid towards their return flights. And 
so there is no loss for AXA to consider under the curtailment or travel disruption sections of 
the policy. 
Mrs L says she would have bought alternative travel insurance. But as the holiday was 
curtailed, not cancelled, and covered under the PTR, Im not persuaded alternative travel 
insurance would have provided a full refund of the holiday in the above circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman