DRN-2303549
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs R says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In July 1986 Mrs R opened a store card account. In May 2002, PPI was added to her 
account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Mrs R owed on her store card and it 
protected Mrs Rs store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Mrs R disagreed. 
In summary, Mrs Rs main complaint is that she doesnt recall any mention of PPI and she 
says she had other ways to pay her store card if she wasnt working.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Mrs R when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was to sell PPI. So it seems 
likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to 
see if Mrs R wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for around 
16 years without PPI, I think Mrs R wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy. On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the 
phone call when Mrs R chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and 
deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs R to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs R with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs R had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
Mrs R told us that she wouldve been able to make the repayments from her wage. But the 
policy paid out a benefit if Mrs R couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. This couldve been a useful 
benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs R needed to claim as she mightve 
had extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay 
from work.
I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of savings shes 
mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. 
I've taken into account that Mrs R mentioned also that she couldve relied on her husband 
and other family to help out. But relying on other people to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
Looking at everything Mrs R told us about her financial situation at the time, it doesnt appear 
to me that Mrs R had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the store card 
monthly repayments for very long if she wasnt working. So I think Mrs R couldve benefitted 
from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think having 
more information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve 
affected her decision to take out PPI. I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve 
been any reason why Mrs R wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the main 
policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mrs R off taking the policy out.   
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs R to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs R had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs R when she 
signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the 
cover, knowing what her financial situation was at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs R off taking out 
the policy.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Mrs R all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs R is worse off as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. 
So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman