DRN-3901721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly refused their application for 
a remortgage and was responsible for delays in processing the application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had an interest only mortgage with another lender coming to the end of its 
term. Mr and Mrs K applied for a Retirement Interest Only mortgage through Nationwide. 
The process commenced in the summer of 2021. Mr and Mrs K say that during the 
application process they had a burst pipe and were advised to have it repaired before 
proceeding with the application. Then Nationwide told them that the application wouldnt be 
approved because there was a public house near the back boundary of the property.
Nationwide says that as part of its eligibility assessment back in 2021, it asked Mr and Mrs K 
whether their property is above, adjacent to or directly opposite any industrial or commercial 
property. Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs K told the Society that it wasnt but later in the 
process an inspection revealed that the property was adjacent to a public house. The 
Society said that this didnt meet its appetite for risk and that it wouldnt proceed with the 
application. Nationwide said that it hadnt delayed in coming to a decision but had delayed in 
dealing with the complaint and offered £50 for this slow service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as it was reasonable 
for Nationwide to refuse the application as it didnt meet its eligibility criteria. Mr and Mrs K 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs K wanted to remortgage as their term was coming to an end with 
their lender. They wanted to stay in their house and get a Retirement Interest Only mortgage 
with Nationwide. This didnt work out and in the meantime interest rates rose. I have to look 
at whether Nationwide could fairly refuse this mortgage and whether it was at fault for any 
delays.
The reason the application was refused was that the situation of the property didnt meet 
Nationwides eligibility criteria for this mortgage. Im sure this was surprising to Mr and Mrs K 
as they already had a mortgage with a lender and there seems to have been no issue with 
that. But every lender will have its own lending criteria and particularly with lifetime 
mortgages some lenders will be more concerned about risk factors that might affect the 
value of the property  such as in this case how close the property is to non- residential 
premises  as the mortgage is literally to last a lifetime. This will sometimes come as a 
surprise to borrowers, but it seems that in this case that as early as June 2021, Nationwide 
says that it asked Mr and Mrs K if the property was close to non-residential premises and the 
answer no was recorded. Mrs K says she answered incorrectly and not on purpose as she 
really had no idea of the impact of the car park behind the house. I of course accept that 
entirely. 
As I say, Mr and Mrs K already had a mortgage and must have assumed that there would be 
no issue with another mortgage but unfortunately Nationwides lending criteria was different 
than the criteria that applies to her existing mortgage. But not all companies have the same 
criteria and companies will have different criteria depending on the type of mortgage the 
borrower wishes to take out. I take it Nationwide asks this question as it may be an issue 
that has caused problems previously where borrowers have been surprised by the 
requirement of Nationwide that the property isnt close to commercial premises. But 
Nationwide, as a commercial enterprise, is entitled to decide on the level of risk it wants to 
take and set its own eligibility criteria. So, as Nationwide refused the mortgage because the 
property didnt meet its eligibility criteria, I dont find that Nationwide unfairly refused the 
mortgage.
As Mr and Mrs K had answered no to the question asked, the application proceeded but 
when a valuer was instructed, Nationwide discovered that the property was in fact close to a 
public house and outside its criteria. As its outside its criteria for lending money on this type 
of property I cant criticise Nationwide for refusing the application. Ive also looked at the 
issue of whether there was any delay generally in processing the application.  From looking 
at the contact notes on the file, there seems to be active involvement by Nationwide 
throughout the process. I see there was a problem with flooding and Mr and Mrs K in 
January 2022 were waiting to hear from the insurer as to what they would be paid out and 
they could then decide what they wanted to borrow.  But it took them sometime to return to 
the house and come to a final figure as what they wanted to borrow. 
Unfortunately, when Mr and Mrs K were ready to proceed it turned out that they were 
ineligible to apply. But looking though the notes I cant fairly say that Nationwide was 
responsible for any delay with processing the application. I note that Nationwide accepts 
there was a delay in processing the complaint. Its offered £50 in compensation which seems 
appropriate, and I will leave Mr and Mrs K to contact Nationwide if they wish to accept that. 
But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman