DRN-2485238
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the compensation HSBC Bank PLC (HSBC) has offered to settle his 
complaint related to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to him alongside a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with HSBC in August 2000 and at the same time took out 
a PPI policy connected with that account. The PPI policy was to cover the monthly 
repayments to the credit card if Mr A was unable to work due to accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Mr A has now complained to HSBC that the PPI was mis-sold. HSBC wrote to him in June 
2020 agreeing to uphold the complaint that the PPI policy sold alongside his credit card 
account, ending 2341, was mis-sold. HSBC offered £5,114.58 in compensation to settle this 
complaint about the mis-sold PPI. 
Mr A was not happy with the response from HSBC and the amount of compensation offered. 
He said HSBC had not dealt with the basic issues of his complaint and he brought his 
concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered for the mis-sold PPI was fair and also said that 
the other issues Mr A had raised were totally unrelated to the PPI policy and would have to 
be dealt with separately.
Mr A did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint to HSCB, and also to this service, Mr A has raised a number of issues about 
fraud, his current account overdraft, a stockbrokers account and his mortgage, some issues 
relating to him personally and some to his business. Mr A seems to believe that the PPI 
policy he took out, and that I am considering in this decision, was to cover insurance for all 
sorts of business losses and mortgage repayments. But this is not the case.
It is possible Mr A may have taken out other insurance policies connected to his bank 
accounts, mortgage and business, but the PPI policy that HSBC has offered to settle is 
specifically for credit card account ending 2341. This policy was taken out at the same time 
the credit card account was opened and this PPI policy is only related to that one credit card 
account. The purpose of the PPI on the credit card account was to assist Mr A if he was 
unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment and if he made a claim on 
the policy it would have paid a proportion of the monthly balance outstanding on the credit 
card.
Mr A would have to complain about any other PPI policies associated with other financial 
products, such as his mortgage or bank account, separately. And if he is not happy with any 
other types of insurance policies he took out, then again, he would have to raise complaints 
about each specific policy individually. The issue he has raised about fraud on his account 
has been set up as a separate complaint and I am not considering that in this decision.
If Mr A has concerns that a claim wasnt paid on the PPI policy for his credit card payments 
because he wasnt working, then that would have to be looked separately. He has not 
indicated he ever previously made a claim on this policy, only that he was sick for a period of 
time and had problems paying his mortgage. But this PPI policy had nothing to do with his 
mortgage and if a claim had been made on this PPI policy it would only have paid towards 
the balance of the credit card account for a period of time.
I would clarify that in this decision I am only considering one PPI policy, the policy 
associated with credit card account ending 2341. This PPI was taken out to cover his credit 
card repayments if Mr A was not working. As HSBC has upheld that this policy was mis-sold, 
I am not looking at how it came to be sold but considering if the compensation offered for the 
mis-sale of this one policy is fair.
When PPI is mis-sold we expect a business to pay compensation that refunds all the costs 
the consumer paid for the PPI and as far as possible puts them in the position they would 
have been in had they not taken out the policy. I think  what  HSBC  has offered  as the 
compensation  to refund  the costs  of the PPI does  this and is fair. 
HSBC  does  not have  full data for the credit  card account  and so full, accurate  
information  about  what  was charged  for the PPI on this credit  card account.  So HSBC  
are making  what  is called  an average  offer.  This means  HSBC  has used  information  it 
holds  from other  customers  who had similar  policies  on a credit  card for a similar  period  
of time.  It uses  this date it has obtained  over time to work  out, on average,  what  a 
consumer  may have  paid for PPI. 
The total offer HSBC  has made  to Mr A as compensation  for the mis-sale  is 
£5,114.58. This is based on what consumers on average would have paid for the PPI 
premiums and interest on similar accounts for similar periods of time.
As there is no actual data for HSBC to use to work out exactly what Mr A paid for the PPI, 
this approach is deemed fair. And I cannot see any alternative in the circumstances of this 
case for any more accurate calculation of compensation to be made as no actual 
statement data is available.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint that further 
compensation is due to Mr A for the mis-sold PPI associated with his credit card. The 
average offer HSBC Bank PLC has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case and I am not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman