DRN-3316216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted unfairly 
by continuing to apply overdraft charges to their accounts when they were in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R complained to Nationwide that the overdraft charges applied to their accounts 
were causing financial difficulties. Nationwide didnt uphold their complaint, it says all 
charges were applied in-line with the terms and conditions of the account. And as Mr and 
Mrs R were dis-satisfied they referred the complaint to our service.
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that 
Nationwide ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs R was experiencing financial difficulty by 
29 December 2018 for account ending 9020 and 16 December 2019 for account ending 
9209 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. Nationwide didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr and Mrs Rs 
account from 29 December 2018 for account ending 9020 and 16 December 2019 for 
account ending 9209. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs R were in no 
position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr and Mrs R were hardcore borrowing. In other, words they hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time or either account. Nationwides 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Mr and Mrs Rs overdraft usage should 
have prompted Nationwide to have realised that Mr and Mrs R wasnt using their overdraft 
as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Nationwide didnt 
react to Mr and Mrs Rs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I 
think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdrafts and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear them. So I think that 
Nationwide didnt treat Mr and Mrs R fairly and they lost out because of what Nationwide did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Rs current overdraft balances so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to them from 29 December 2018 for account ending 9020 
and 16 December 2019 for account ending 9209 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdrafts once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mr and Mrs R to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Mr and Mrs R are encouraged to get in contact with and 
cooperate with Nationwide to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mr and Mrs Rs credit file, 
Nationwide should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdrafts on 29 December 2018 for 
account ending 9020 and 16 December 2019 for account ending 9209. 
Nationwide can also reduce overdraft limits by the amount of refund if it considers 
it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr and Mrs R over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balances, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr and Mrs R along with 8% simple interest on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs 
Rs credit file. Nationwide can also reduce Mr and Mrs Rs overdraft limit by the 
amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman