DRN-1945104
 
The complaint
In summary, Miss A has complained that TSB Bank Plc sent her replacement bank card to 
an old address. 
What happened
Miss A complained to TSB in February 2020. On investigation it found out that it had an 
incorrect address for her on its card system. Miss A was concerned that the cards could 
have been used by someone else. 
TSB responded to Miss As concerns. It explained that her current address was now 
showing on all of its systems, but it understood that this hadnt previously been the case. It 
understood that she had moved twice since 2014 and had been into several branches to 
resolve the issue. It thought that the address reverted to an old address on its card system 
alone, during an IT update in April 2018.
Although the issue had been resolved and Miss A had been able to obtain her cards from a 
previous address, it understood this had been an upsetting experience for her. It 
acknowledged she had been provided with poor service and paid her £250 for the 
inconvenience she had been caused and £5 for the expenses.
Miss As complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She agreed that Miss As 
experience with TSB had been poor. She thought the £250 was fair but thought a further £50 
should be paid to Miss A as she had requested a new pin back in February which hadnt 
been sent. As a result, she hadnt been able to use her card. 
Miss A didnt agree that an additional £50 was enough compensation. And TSB didnt agree 
that any more compensation should be paid to Miss A. It said there was no evidence of a 
data breach or of her post being opened. It erred on the side of caution in not sending the 
PIN number whist the address changes were being sorted out. It thought Mis A could have 
ordered a PIN with very little inconvenience. It thought the impact was quite low on Miss A 
and the £250 it had paid was quite generous.
As neither party has agreed with the assessment, the case has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be disputed by TSB that it provided Miss A with poor service. And it 
thinks the £250 it has already offered her is generous considering the impact on her of what 
has gone on. Miss A on the other hand doesnt agree that the £255 paid by TSB or the additional £50 
recommended by the investigator is sufficient. She thinks that TSB should pay £1,000 for the 
stress and trouble caused to her. So, there is a big gap between the two parties as to what 
an appropriate level of compensation should be.
My starting point is that TSB has recognised that it has provided poor service to Miss A. And 
it doesnt appear to dispute that Miss A has been into its branches to resolve the issue of her 
card and pin, without it seems much success. 
Although TSB has said it thinks the problem resulted from an IT upgrade in 2018, it hasnt 
provided any information which shows that was the case. And even if I were to accept what it 
has said is correct, it would indicate that this issue has been going on for some considerable 
time. So, I can understand that Miss A would have been frustrated at having to make 
repeated attempts to resolve the matter with TSB. 
Although she was able to retrieve her card from a previous address, I think TSB 
underestimates the impact that had on her of worrying that her debit card may have been 
accessed by a stranger. The fact that it wasnt was in my view fortuitous for Miss A and for 
TSB. And it doesnt detract from the fact that she was concerned that her banking 
information may have been breached as a result of TSBs mistake. 
In addition to all of this, TSB has accepted that it didnt send her the PIN that she had 
requested. Ive thought about what it has said about why it didnt. But it doesnt strike me as 
good customer service to have expected Miss A to have to chase this up or make a fresh 
request. She shouldnt have had to do that in my opinion, as she quite reasonably should 
have expected TSB to have actioned her original request. 
So, taking all of this into account I do think this experience was upsetting for Miss A which 
resulted her in suffering distress and inconvenience. But I think the figure she is seeking is 
disproportionate to the distress and inconvenience she has incurred. 
And as a result, for the reasons Ive explained; I think the additional £50 recommended by 
the investigator, isnt inappropriate taking into account the overall impact on Miss A. 
My final decision
If Miss A accepts my decision, I direct TSB Bank Plc to pay her £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman