DRN-3995688
The complaint
Miss D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) irresponsibly 
granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2017, Miss D acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
VWFS. Miss D was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £345, with a final optional 
payment of £6,875 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £23,789.
Miss D says that VWFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. VWFS didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included gathering information from Miss D as part of her 
application and the application is credit scored. It also said it carried out an affordability 
check based on the income information provided and said it was reasonable for it to rely on 
Miss Ds confirmation of her employment and the credit check. It noted that Miss D said she 
was living at home with her parents at the time and not paying rent. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought VWFS didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss D didnt agree and challenged what a reasonable level of disposable income was. She 
didnt think that based on her disposable income after the repayment and noting the term of 
the agreement that the agreement should have been considered affordable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check VWFS completed showed Miss D owed just over £8,000 to other creditors 
and while there were no defaults or major issue noted she had missed some repayments 
and was over the limit on one account. Given this and noting the amount of finance VWFS 
provided I think it would have been proportionate for VWFS to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Ds outgoings and committed expenditure before lending, to ensure 
she could maintain the monthly payments.
VWFS has said that it carried out an affordability check based on the income information 
provided. I do not have any further details about this check but given the overall size of the 
borrowing, its term and the required repayments, I think it would have been proportionate for 
VWFS to have verified Miss Ds income before lending. Although VWFS did complete a 
credit check, this wont have indicated what Miss Ds regular living expenses were. Without 
knowing what Miss Ds regular committed expenditure was VWFS wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for VWFS to have verified Miss Ds income in some 
way. Ive seen from Miss Ds payslips for the three months leading up to the agreement that 
her average income at the time was around £1,317. I cant be certain what Miss D would 
have told VWFS had it asked about her regular expenditure. I dont think VWFS needed to 
request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight 
on the information contained in Miss Ds statements as an indication of what would most 
likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application alongside the other 
information provided by Miss D. These show that Miss Ds regular committed monthly 
expenditure at the time was around £700. In calculating this figure, Ive included the amount 
Miss D said she was paying for board and other costs such as insurance, phone and other 
commitments. Based on Miss Ds income this would leave around £270 a month after the 
repayments of the agreement. I note Miss Ds comment about a reasonable level of 
disposable income but in this case, noting she was living with her parents and the other 
information I have taken into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to 
Miss D. For this reason, Im not persuaded that VWFS acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman