DRN-3738411
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Erudio Student Loans Limited assessed his deferment 
application, and about them defaulting his account before hed received the proper notice.
What happened
In 2021, Mr Gs deferment application was turned down based on his total income, including 
income his employer gave him to cover certain living costs. Mr G pointed out that these living 
cost payments had not been included in Erudios previous deferment assessments. Erudio 
explained that they were supposed to be included, and had been left out by mistake before.
Mr G lived abroad, and had told Erudio a number of times that their post either didnt get 
through or only got to him months late. He asked Erudio to send things by email. But Erudio 
chose to only send him his key documents by post. This included the notices that Mr Gs 
deferment had been rejected, the notice of arrears, and the default notice. As such, Mr G 
didnt receive these until his account was already in default, which he said was unfair.
Erudio argued that Mr G should have contacted them to check things himself. They also said 
that he could have called them and asked for the deferment outcome to be sent by email.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G didnt agree, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and Erudio a provisional decision on 7 September 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
The deferment criteria was based on Mr Gs total income, less certain disability-related 
benefits. So all the income he received from his employer was supposed to be included, 
even the income which was meant to cover his living costs. Erudio didnt change the terms 
there  they just made a mistake in letting Mr G set that income aside in previous years. So 
Erudio were correct to turn down Mr Gs 2021 deferment application based on his income.
I can certainly understand why Mr G would prefer for Erudio to discount that income. But just 
because Erudio made errors in Mr Gs favour before, that doesnt mean they have to keep 
making the same errors going forward.
So I think the deferment outcome was correct. However, when it comes to the default, I dont 
think Erudio have acted fairly.
I can see that Mr G told Erudio repeatedly that their postal correspondence either would not 
get through or would be subject to severe delays. So Erudio were fully aware of this. Yet 
they continued to only send Mr G very important correspondence by post, while knowing it 
was unlikely to get through in time, if it got to him at all.
Erudio argue that Mr G should have checked things himself or tried to mitigate his 
circumstances. But the onus was on Erudio to make sure Mr G got the proper notices on 
time, the onus was not on Mr G to check that Erudio had done their role properly. And given 
that Mr Gs deferments had been accepted every year for a long time, he didnt have a good 
reason to think hed be rejected on the same circumstances now. So its understandable that 
he didnt think to check whether Erudio had rejected his deferment without getting the proper 
notice to him. Further, Mr G did mitigate his circumstances by making it clear to Erudio that 
their post would not get through, and by asking for emails instead. Erudio say they would 
have sent Mr G his deferment outcome by email if hed asked for this over the phone  so 
I see no good reason why they didnt do so when he asked for this over email.
It may well be Erudios normal process to send things by post, and there may not be a 
specific rule telling them to use another particular contact method. But Erudio are required to 
treat customers fairly, and that will sometimes mean breaking from the normal process or 
doing things that one is not technically compelled to do. Erudio knew Mr Gs situation, and 
knew theyd need to do something different to make sure he was aware of what was going 
on in time. Its standard industry practice to use more than one contact method. And Erudio 
were perfectly capable of contacting Mr G by email  which theyve admitted they would 
have done had he asked them for this over the phone rather than over email, or they could 
have given him extra time to account for the expected postal delays, and so on.
But not only did Erudio not show Mr G any due consideration or forbearance, they actually 
defaulted him at the earliest possible point  despite knowing he was unlikely to get their 
postal notices in time, if at all. Its difficult to view such actions as being in entirely good faith.
Ultimately, Erudio were required to properly notify Mr G before a default. But they sent these 
notices by a method which they knew was unlikely to reach Mr G in time, if at all. And Mr G 
didnt get the notices in time, so he didnt get the required opportunity to avoid the default.
Taking everything into account, I find that this default was unfair. It follows that the best thing 
now is for the default to be reversed and the account reinstated, giving Mr G the opportunity 
to clear his arrears and then run his account as close to normal as possible. I also 
understand that Erudio caused Mr G some real stress, which also needs to be put right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 October 2022. Mr G let us know he didnt have anything further to add. Erudio made 
some further submissions, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Erudio argued that they told Mr G theyd send him key correspondence by post. But I already 
took this into account in the provisional decision. Mr G informed Erudio that he had trouble 
getting their post, he repeatedly asked for email correspondence, and Erudio have admitted 
that they could have sent him correspondence by email.Erudio pointed out that the courier say they aim to get post to Mr Gs territory in about a 
week or two, so it shouldnt have been that heavily delayed. But this is just an aim, and 
Erudio have not provided any evidence which actually substantiates that their post did arrive 
with Mr G in time. Further, the courier also states that post to Mr Gs territory must be 
formatted in a specific way  which it looks like Erudios post was not  otherwise it faces 
delay or return. And Mr Gs actions, as well as his consistent and credible testimony about 
this over the years, evidence that he was indeed having trouble getting their post. So I think 
its most likely that Erudios post was not getting through in time, and whats more it looks 
like this may have been due to Erudio not sending it in the required format.
Erudio reiterated their argument that Mr G should have contacted them. But as per the 
provisional decision: the onus was on Erudio to make sure Mr G got the proper notices on 
time; the onus was not so much on Mr G to check that Erudio had carried out their role. And 
given that Mr Gs deferments had been accepted every year for a long time, he didnt have a 
good reason to think hed be rejected on the same circumstances. So its understandable 
that he didnt think to check whether Erudio had rejected his deferment without getting the 
proper notice to him. Further, Mr G did mitigate his circumstances by telling Erudio about his 
troubles getting their post, and by asking for emails instead. Erudio say they would have sent 
Mr G his deferment outcome by email if hed asked for this over the phone  so I see no 
good reason why they didnt do so when he asked for this over email.
Erudio clarified that, while they did default Mr G at a relatively early point, it was not the 
earliest point they could have. But I dont find this significant. The fact remains that Erudio 
did not show Mr G the proper consideration or forbearance.
Erudio also argued that Mr G didnt have a payment plan in place. But I also do not see that 
this is significant to the outcome of this case. As far as I can see, it seems that Mr G hadnt 
received the proper notification that any payments were due, and he didnt have a good 
reason to think they were.
Lastly, Erudio pointed out that payments may be due for the 2022 to 2023 period. That will 
be the case if the backdated deferral Im directing is not successful. I have taken account of 
that in the redress.
Ultimately, Erudio were required to properly notify Mr G before a default. But they sent these 
notices by a method which they reasonably knew was unlikely to reach Mr G in time, if at all. 
And it looks like Mr G didnt get the notices in time, possibly even due to incorrect address 
formatting by Erudio, so he didnt get the required opportunity to avoid the default. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that the default was 
unfair, that it should be reversed, and that the account should be reinstated, such that Mr G 
has the opportunity to clear the arrears and then run his account as close to normal as 
possible.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to take such actions as are needed to effectively undo 
the default and reinstate the account.
That means reinstating each terminated loan. Or if Erudio are no longer able to do so, then it 
means making arrangements so the debt is treated as if it had been reinstated  including 
honouring the original terms and conditions and removing any related negative information 
from Mr Gs credit file.It also means making arrangements such that Mr G has six months from the date of the final 
decision to clear the arrears from the 2021 to 2022 period. And it means allowing Mr G to 
make a backdated deferment application for the current 2022 to 2023 period. If the 2022 to 
2023 deferment application does not succeed, then it means allowing a further six months 
for Mr G to pay any payments currently outstanding for that period. I recommend that Erudio 
contact Mr G about this by email.
Lastly, Erudio should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint, and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman