DRN-2733017
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited applied a 
retrospective exclusion to her policy and declined her critical illness claim.
In raising this complaint Mrs M has been represented by a third party but, for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mrs M. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In July 2019 Mrs M applied for life and critical illness cover, via a third party, with Royal 
London. The policy provides £50,000 of fixed life cover over a 33-year term and decreasing 
life and critical illness cover, with an initial sum assured of £80,750, over a 20-year term. 
Mrs M was unfortunately diagnosed with breast cancer in June 2020 and so made a critical 
illness claim under her policy. Royal London declined the claim as they considered Mrs M 
had misrepresented her health when applying for the policy by not disclosing that she saw a 
doctor in May and June 2019 about nipple discharge  for which she was referred for an 
ultrasound scan and with the condition kept under review. Royal London noted that Mrs M 
explained she didnt disclose these symptoms as she was reassured by her doctor there 
wasnt anything to worry about and that the ultrasound scan results were normal. But Royal 
London considered they asked clear questions that didnt require a judgement to be made 
on Mrs Ms part as to whether the symptoms, testing and investigations would be relevant to 
them. They therefore thought Mrs M ought to have disclosed this medical information. 
Royal London explained, had they known this information, they wouldve initially postponed 
cover pending Mrs Ms ongoing review and then offered cover with an exclusion for 
conditions relating to breast cancer. Royal London considered the misrepresentation to be 
careless and so offered to apply the underwriting decision (breast cancer exclusion) 
retrospectively or, alternatively, cancel the policy and refund all premiums. 
Mrs M complained to Royal London but they didnt change their position. As Mrs M remained 
dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but thought Royal London had fairly 
declined the claim. He said he didnt think Mrs M took reasonable care in answering the 
questions asked of her when applying for the policy. And, as Royal Londons underwriting 
criteria showed they wouldve postponed offering cover before later offering it with the 
exclusion, he considered it to be a qualifying misrepresentation. He agreed that the 
misrepresentation was careless and so thought it was reasonable for Royal London to apply 
the exclusion retrospectively (as though Mrs M had disclosed this information at the point of 
applying). 
Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M but, having done so, I think Royal 
London has acted fairly by applying the exclusion to her policy and declining the claim, for 
similar reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Royal London thinks Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
by failing to disclose her nipple discharge, including the referral for an ultrasound scan and 
that she also remained under review by her doctor.
Ive looked at the relevant application questions. These include:
APART FROM ANYTHING YOU HAVE ALREADY TOLD US ABOUT, IN THE 
LAST 3 YEARS, HAVE YOU:
Been prescribed medication or treatment regularly for a period of four 
consecutive weeks more, or have you been under review from your doctor or a 
medical professional?
Including Physio, Counselling, Prescriptions from your own doctor, even if you did not 
take them. You dont need to tell us about contraception, fertility, dental treatment or 
reviews purely in relation to pregnancy. 
Been referred to a specialist or had, or been advised to have, any 
investigations?
Including: Blood Tests, Biopsy, Ultrasound, X-Ray, CT / MRI or other scan, ECG, 
Echocardiogram or other heart investigation, Abnormal smear or abnormal 
mammogram, Investigations using an internal camera such as an endoscopy, 
colonoscopy or laparoscopy. You dont need to tell us about investigations which 
were purely for pregnancy, infertility or simple fractures which have resolved with no 
time off work, or about genetic tests that meet the criteria outlined previously. 
Mrs M answered both questions No.
Ive looked at whether Mrs M took reasonable care answering these questions. Mrs M has 
explained she made an innocent mistake in not disclosing her condition as she was 
reassured by medical professionals that it would go away naturally. And that as the 
ultrasound scan results didnt show anything of concern, it wasnt something she thought she 
needed to share.  Ive carefully considered this but, while I accept Mrs M had no reason to believe her 
symptoms were of a cancerous nature at the time of applying, I think the above questions 
she was asked in respect of her health are clear and relate to a specific timeframe (last three 
years). The questions also refer to being kept under review from a doctor or medical 
professional, as well as referral for investigations including an ultrasound scan. So, given 
Mrs M had only recently undergone an ultrasound scan for her nipple discharge and been 
told shed be kept under review, I think she ought to have known this information was 
relevant to the insurer and so answered the questions differently. It follows that I dont think 
Mrs M took reasonable care when doing so. 
Royal London has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had Mrs M provided this 
information, then they wouldve postponed offering cover until the symptoms settled and/or 
investigated further, treated or histology was known. At which point they wouldve then 
offered cover with the following exclusion:
We will not pay a claim on diagnosis of a critical illness or an additional condition if it 
is directly or indirectly because of breast cancer, or any form of carcinoma in situ of 
the breast, its treatment or any consequence of its treatment. 
Im therefore satisfied different terms wouldve been offered had Royal London known the 
correct information. This means Im satisfied Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
Royal London has said Mrs Ms misrepresentation was careless and I agree. This is 
because, as Ive explained, I dont think Mrs M thought her symptoms were significant or of a 
sinister nature given the reassurances she received from her doctor(s) at that time. Im 
therefore not persuaded Mrs M intended to deliberately mis-lead Royal London, or acted 
recklessly, when applying for cover. But rather, I think she failed to take reasonable care and 
so acted carelessly. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Royal London can take in accordance with CIDRA. And, in this situation, it allows 
Royal London to apply the exclusion retrospectively and assess the claim in line with it. 
CIDRA reflects our long-standing approach to misrepresentation cases and so I think it was 
fair for Royal London to consider Mrs Ms claim with this exclusion taken into account. This 
means Im satisfied that they acted reasonably by not paying the claim. 
Royal London has alternatively offered to refund the premiums to Mrs M should she not wish 
to accept the policy with the breast cancer exclusion thats been applied. I think this is also 
fair in the circumstances.  
I know this is a very difficult time for Mrs M and Im sympathetic to her circumstances. But, 
for the above reasons, I think Royal London has acted fairly by applying the exclusion to 
Mrs Ms policy and declining her critical illness claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman