DRN-4439881
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly applied fees and a missed payment marker 
to his credit file in relation to a credit card account he holds with the bank.
What happened
Mr N was going on holiday. He received his July electronic statement from HSBC and made 
a payment the same day, as he was going to be away. However, the statement billing period 
didnt start until the following day, so Mr Ns payment was applied against the amount due in 
the June/July billing period. Because no payment was received during the July/August billing 
period, HSBC applied a late payment fee of £12 and recorded a missed payment on Mr Ns 
credit file.
After Mr N referred his complaint to us, HSBC offered to refund the late payment fee and 
remove the missed payment. It also offered to pay him £50 compensation. Our investigator 
thought the banks offer was a fair way to resolve matters. Mr N hasnt accepted it. He says 
he was put to unnecessary inconvenience and concern. He also considers HSBC is remiss 
in not warning customers that they will be penalised for early payment.
Because Mr N didnt accept the investigators conclusions, the matter has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can understand Mr N is upset at being charged when he was doing what 
he thought was the right thing. It seems to me this was an unfortunate set of circumstances 
in which Mr N wasnt knowingly paying an additional sum during the June/July billing period. 
It was reasonable to think that having received the electronic statement, any payment he 
then made would be applied against the July/August billing period.
I dont think this is a case of HSBC seeking to penalise customers for paying early, as Mr N 
has suggested. From what I can see, it arose simply because the electronic statement 
appears on the HSBC banking app the day before the actual statement is issued. Im 
pleased to see the bank recognise how the situation arose, and in the circumstances at play 
here, its reasonable that it refunds the charge and removes the missed payment from 
Mr Ns credit file. In addition to this HSBC offered to pay Mr N £50, which noting what hes 
said about his trouble and upset seems to me a reasonable sum.
I appreciate Mr N feels that part of the problem is due to the lack of a warning on the account 
statements about the consequences of early payment. However, I wouldnt expect a firm to 
issue such a warning as a matter of course. The terms and conditions of Mr Ns credit card 
set out when payments are due, along with the requirement to make at least the minimum 
payment during each billing period.
I dont consider that paying more than the minimum payment should lead to an assumption 
that any excess sum would be applied against the next months payment due. It is of course 
applied to the account balance, thus reducing any interest that might otherwise have been 
applicable. But I cant properly describe what happened as being a penalty.
Im conscious that the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Duty came into force at the 
end of July 2023, and that while not retrospective, it straddles the period between Mr Ns 
payment and the point at which his minimum payment fell due in August. So it has some 
relevance to the argument Mr N seeks to make about the wording on future statements, 
even if it wasnt in force at the time his July/August statement was issued. 
The Consumer Duty includes a requirement that firms ensure their communications meet the 
information needs of their customers and are likely to be understood by customers. The 
banks monthly statements tell customers when their payments are due, how to make 
payment, how payments are applied to their account and what the consequences will be if 
they fail to make payment as shown. Consumer Duty requirements will of course be 
something that the bank takes into consideration when deciding how it sets out payment 
information to its customers in future.
It might also be worth HSBC considering whether the timing difference between the 
electronic statement on its app and the account statement proper has the potential to cause 
other customers the problem Mr N experienced. If so, Id expect HSBC to consider any steps 
it can take to reduce this risk.
Notwithstanding the above, having considered matters overall Im satisfied with the actions 
HSBC has proposed to resolve Mr Ns complaint. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to refund the £12 fee, amend Mr Ns credit 
file, and pay £50 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that this is what HSBC UK Bank Plc must do to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman