DRN-2277937
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly charged her a late payment fee 
and removed her promotional interest rate, when it classed a payment she made as late. 
What happened
Miss T has her credit card account with Barclaycard. On 19 February 2020 she received a 
text alert notifying her a payment was due that day and needed to be paid by 11.45pm to 
avoid a late payment fee. Miss T made a payment that day. 
A few months later, Miss T noticed that she was being charged interest on her balance even 
though she had a 0% promotional rate, and she noted she had been charged a late payment 
fee. She complained as she had made the payment after receiving the text alert. Barclays 
didnt think it had done anything wrong as the payment had been made late but as a gesture 
is removed the late payment fee and reinstated the promotional rate. But Miss T wasnt 
happy as that left the interest charged during that period on her account.
 
Our investigator ultimately upheld Miss Ts complaint. Alongside a previous recommendation 
to pay Miss T £50 for the inconvenience this matter had caused, the investigator also 
required the interest be refunded on the account as the text alert had been sent a day after 
the payment was actually due, and he didnt think it fair Miss T incur interest because of an 
error with the text. 
Barclays agreed to the outcome. But Miss T didnt. She doesnt think £50 compensation is 
sufficient given the length of time this has taken and feels £250 is more appropriate as 
compensation for the trouble she has been put to. She says the due dates all differ on her 
statements which means the payment date is different and she often has problems reviewing 
her statements on-line. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Miss T and Barclays that although I have only 
summarised the evidence and arguments made, I have considered everything provided. My 
role isnt to comment on the service Miss T has received from us (which she also complains 
of) but to decide the complaint brought against Barclays. 
The starting point is the contract between Miss T and Barclays - terms and conditions for 
account. They set out that payments need to be made by the due date.  And the due date is 
20 days after the statement date. I understand Miss T is unhappy that the due date can differ 
between months, but that isnt surprising where calendar months have a different number of 
days in them.    
The January 2020 statement set out that Februarys payment needed to be made by 18th. So 
Im satisfied Miss T ought to have been aware of when her payment was due by. By the time 
the text was sent by Barclays she was already late in making her payment. Under the terms 
of the account Barclays is able to apply a late payment fee and remove the promotional 
interest rate (the terms explain this will be lost if a payment is late). 
However, I dont think it would be fair to ignore the text Miss T was sent. This explained her 
payment was due that day and needed to be made by 11.45pm to avoid a late payment fee. 
Importantly, although Barclays records show this was sent on 18 February it didnt actually 
reach Miss T until the following day. It would seem something went wrong with the text alert 
if it didnt arrive with Miss T when it should  had it of done, I think Miss T would have made 
her payment on time. And Im mindful the text told her that if payment was made, she would 
avoid a late payment fee.
 
Barclays had already refunded the late payment and reinstated the promotional interest as a 
gesture of good will. This is something I would have asked it to do had it not already done 
so. It has also now agreed to remove the interest incurred for the period the promotional 
interest rate had been removed and pay Miss T £50 for the inconvenience caused.
Miss T doesnt think £50 is sufficient compensation for the trouble she has been put to and 
she has referred to our website and first tier awards going up to £500. However, all cases 
are considered individually and the information on our website is there to give both 
complainants and businesses examples of the types of award we make. And of course that 
band does range from £0-£500 and so covers awards made across the spectrum. 
When deciding what level of compensation is fair, I look at the impact any wrong doing has 
had. Whilst Miss T has been inconvenienced by this, there is a certain level of inconvenience 
to be expected when querying such matters or making a complaint and I wouldnt make an 
award for that or for any minor inconvenience. And whilst Miss T speaks of Barclays missing 
deadlines, Im not persuaded these have impacted Miss T  many of the deadlines she 
speaks of were set by us whilst we were handling the matter. And our deadlines arent set in 
stone, quote often either of the parties might need more time to respond. 
When considering what level of compensation is appropriate, Ive borne in mind that Miss T 
did have access to information that told her the payment due date of 18 February before the 
text was sent.  But she has nevertheless been put to the trouble of querying this matter given 
the information that was in the text and that it explicitly said she wouldnt incur a fee if 
payment was made by 11.45pm that day. Whilst this is less than she thinks she should be 
paid, Im satisfied the £50 Barclays has agreed to pay is a fair reflection of the trouble Miss T 
was put to. 
Putting things right
In addition to removing the late payment fee and reinstating the promotional interest rate 
which it has already done, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove the interest charged 
during the period the promotional interest rate had been removed for, as if had never been 
incurred. I also require it to pay Miss T £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
compensate Miss T in accordance with what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020. 
Claire HopkinsOmbudsman