DRN-3851199
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr O says he was recommended an investment broker, AssetShot, by a friend and a relative 
who had both been using its services for some time and making good returns. He had 
relocated abroad and had funds from a house sale that he intended to use to buy a house in 
his new country of residence. 
Mr O checked Trustpilot reviews and agreed to speak to a representative of AssetShot. He 
was told he could make some profit by speculating on the price movement of assets using 
their brokers expert advice. Mr O says they didnt mention a specific rate of return. He was 
persuaded to set up a trading account with AssetShot and wanted to see if he could make 
some additional money in the short term for the house deposit. 
Mr O downloaded a remote access software under his account managers instructions so 
that they could trade together. To facilitate trading, Mr O sent money from his HSBC account 
to a crypto wallet in his name with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. He then watched 
as his account manager transferred the cryptocurrency into his trading account with 
AssetShot before placing the trades. 
Mr O made two payments from his HSBC account in connection with this investment  an 
initial deposit of £23,000 on 20 October 2021 and a further £46,500 on 2 November 2021 
after seeing the profits being made on his trades. He says he realised something wasnt right 
when his friend and his relative had trouble making a withdrawal. 
Mr O also attempted to make a withdrawal and was told that he needed to pay a 30% fee for 
the funds to be released. He sent £4,953.21 to the cryptocurrency exchange on 
25 November 2021 in relation to this but it didnt appear in his wallet. Mr O was subsequently 
notified that his crypto wallet had been closed and £4,749.07 was returned to his HSBC 
account on 9 December 2021.
Mr O reported the matter to HSBC shortly after and it contacted the beneficiary bank to 
request a recall. But it didnt hear back. HSBC refused to refund the payments and said that 
Mr O had authorised them.
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint. They thought that the very first payment ought to 
have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems and it should have questioned Mr O about it. 
And had it done so, his loss would have been prevented. The investigator initially 
recommended the first two payments to be refunded along with interest, but subsequently 
asked HSBC to include the third payment minus the funds already returned when they 
realised that the amount the crypto exchange returned to Mr O wasnt the same as that hed 
sent. The investigator also clarified that they didnt think Mr O should share some of the 
blame for what happened.
Mr O accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC didnt. So, the matter has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, so not everything that 
happened is detailed, Id like to reassure Mr O and HSBC that Ive read and considered 
everything in its entirety.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options, contracts for 
difference (CFD) or foreign exchange scam is in fact a scam. Some complaints simply 
involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of commodities, cryptocurrency or 
stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. Some traders promoted these 
products  which were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its 
predecessor at the time  using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or 
misleading. 
However, while customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions 
as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for 
fraud, i.e., dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information 
with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing 
another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised payments, they 
dont have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  
but the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised 
investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). 
I first need to consider whether AssetShot was a legitimate trader. Given the information Ive 
found during my research, Im satisfied that it wasnt. I say this because:
- On 16 November 2021, nearly four weeks after Mr O made the first payment, the 
FCA published a warning that AssetShot was offering financial services in its 
jurisdiction without authority. 
- On 2 February 2022, a warning about AssetShot was published on the Investor 
Alerts Portal of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) 
by the Financial Services and Markets Authority in Belgium.
- Im also not aware of AssetShot being regulated in any other jurisdiction. This 
indicates that it was operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate 
businesses tend to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. 
Duty of care
It isnt in dispute that Mr O authorised the disputed payments. They were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC. Under regulations, and in 
accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks should execute an authorised 
payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into doing so, for example 
as part of an investment scam. 
The payments Mr O made werent sent directly from his bank account to AssetShot. All 
payments were made via another account in his name with a crypto exchange which I 
understand he had control over. Under these circumstances, the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which requires signatories such as 
HSBC to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result. 
Ive considered that the disputed payments were sent to a legitimate crypto platform. 
I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the FCA and Action 
Fraud had warned of crypto exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019, 
Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. This 
type of insight is something that regulated businesses, including HSBC, ought to take notice 
of. 
So, even though Mr O was transferring funds to a crypto account in his name, HSBC ought 
to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. While the 
transfers were made to his own wallet, scams involving transfers to crypto accounts were 
well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments were also out of 
character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Os account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments. The initial transaction amount of £23,000 was substantially higher than other 
transactions on his account. It was nearly two and a half times higher than the largest 
payment Mr O had made on his account in that period. Given the amount involved, and the 
fact that the payment was to a known crypto platform, I consider that it would have been 
reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned Mr O before executing his authorised 
instruction. 
Even if he had been sending money to a legitimate crypto platform, it didnt follow that 
Mr Os money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. By 
the time Mr O made the payments, I think HSBC had or ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm 
from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on 
to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet or account.
Had HSBC done more and warned Mr O about cryptocurrency scams, Ive no reason to 
doubt that he would have explained the true purpose of his payment. I cant see that Mr O 
had been given a reason to think he had to hide this information from his bank. Neither had 
he been coached to tell them something different. Im satisfied that Mr O would have looked 
further into the investment opportunity in general, including whether the broker hed been 
dealing with was regulated here in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered that it 
wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Mr O would have come across the various warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams following HSBCs intervention. HSBC argues that its unlikely Mr O would have been deterred from investing given that his 
relative and friend were successfully investing. And he would more likely have preferred any 
reassurances from the scammer over a generic warning from his bank. 
Ive carefully considered the comments HSBC has put forward. But Im not persuaded by its 
reasoning. From what Ive seen, Mr O didnt seek out this investment opportunity. Hes told 
us he would have left the funds in his account for a house deposit but for the scam. 
I acknowledge that hed been told by friends and family that they were making returns. But 
Im not persuaded that Mr O would have simply ignored a warning from his trusted bank and 
continued investing without looking into things further independently as HSBC has 
suggested. Instead, Im persuaded that a meaningful intervention from HSBC at that time 
would likely have exposed the scam. And I think its more likely than not that an intervention 
would have caused Mr O to stop from going ahead with the payment, thereby preventing his 
loss.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. Ive 
duly considered whether Mr O should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, in this case, I dont think he could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was a scam and simply didnt appreciate what he was doing or 
the consequences of his actions. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr O had investment experience such that he 
ought to have realised he had been given inaccurate information, or that what he was told 
was too good to be true. Unaware of the common deceptive tactics of scammers, Mr O 
unwittingly agreed to continue making deposits until such time that he realised something 
had gone wrong.
Ive thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. 
While acknowledging that Mr O could have done more research  as can most customers  
overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory 
negligence in this case.
Putting things right
To put matters right, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to reimburse Mr O the three disputed 
payments less the amount thats already been recovered. 
As the payments came from a current account, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to also add simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to put things right for Mr O as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman