DRN-3114881
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim on his contents 
insurance for accidental damage to his melt light.
What happened
On 26 June 2021 Mr D noticed fingerprints on his melt light, he used a dry cloth to gently 
wipe the marks off. Unfortunately, after doing this he noticed several scratches appeared on 
the light and after enquiring with the manufacturer, he was told he should have used a 
special cloth.
At the beginning of July Mr D made a claim on his contents insurance for accidental 
damage. He wanted Aviva to replace the shade. Aviva declined the claim as they said the 
policy didnt cover him for cleaning. 
Mr D made a complaint to Aviva as he didnt feel the exclusion was clear or should apply. 
Aviva reviewed Mr Ds concerns but maintained their position to decline the claim as the 
policy didnt cover for damage caused by the process of cleaning, washing, repairing or 
restoring an item.
Mr D brought his concerns to this service as he felt the terms werent clear and the claim 
should be covered. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had declined the claim unfairly and 
found the terms to be clear. As Mr D remains unhappy it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr D and I have explained my reasoning below.
Aviva have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. They are entitled to decide what level of cover they are prepared to 
provide and therefore the risk theyre willing to take.
Aviva agreed to provide cover to Mr D for his contents including for accidental damage, but 
they have opted to limit that cover through an exclusion. The policy defines accidental 
damage as damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an external force. But the policy 
has a general exclusion that Aviva have relied on when declining the claim. The exclusion 
says:
We will not cover damage caused by the process of cleaning, washing, repairing or 
restoring any item.
Mr D doesnt feel the actions that led to the damage constitutes cleaning. However, I note 
that the reason he wiped the light was because he noticed fingerprints. So, he was wiping it 
to remove the marks. 
I appreciate Mr D feels the exclusion isnt clear and to him it was in relation to more complex 
cleaning processes. However, generally cleaning is described as the process of removing 
dirt from things and the act or instance to make something clean. Mr D was aiming to do just 
that, clear the light of the marks to make it clean. Given this I dont agree that Aviva has 
been unfair in relying on the exclusion. 
Ive considered Mr Ds concern that its unfair for Aviva to provide accidental cover that 
doesnt cover him for wiping fingerprints off an object but where more forceful scenarios 
would be covered. As explained, Aviva are entitled to decide the level of cover they wish to 
provide and therefore the level of risk they wish to take. Whilst I dont know the specific 
reason here, cleaning objects is a fairly regular occurrence and therefore theres a higher 
chance of an item getting damaged. It seems this is the sort of risk Aviva didnt want to 
cover.
The policy terms and conditions were clear about the exclusion that applied and if this wasnt 
suitable for Mr D he could have cancelled the policy within the cooling off period and looked 
for a more suitable policy.
Im aware the reason Mr D took the cover was in relation to the purchase of the melt light so 
I can understand his disappointment in the claim not being covered. However, for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think Aviva have been unfair in declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman