DRN-4453905
The complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (personal 
contract purchase agreement) with MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H acquired a used car through a personal contract purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. He paid a deposit of £3,000 and received credit of £24,500 repayable over 
49 months. Mr H was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around £444 followed by a 
final repayment of £10,084.
Mr H says that the cars engine failed on 16 December 2022. He says there were no prior 
issues with the engine and that he had maintained the car in line with the manufacturers 
requirements. Mr H took the car for diagnostics and was told that the turbo impellor had 
snapped, and pieces had gone into the engine causing the engine to fail and a replacement 
engine was needed. Mr H complained to MotoNovo that the car supplied to him wasnt fault 
free due to the issue that arose and that it hadnt lasted a reasonable amount of time noting 
the engine failed when the car was less than five years old and had been driven 60,000 
miles.
MotoNovo responded to Mr Hs complaint saying that as he had been in possession of the 
car for more than six months, he was required to show that the faults present with the car 
existed at the point of supply and that they meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or not 
fit for purpose at that time.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with MotoNovos response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They didnt think the car was sufficiently durable.
MotoNovo didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that there was no evidence to 
support our investigators comment that the car was not of satisfactory quality at sale, nor 
evidence to support the claim that the turbo failed prematurely. It said there was no definitive 
timeline for how long a turbo should last and like other wear and tear items the lifespan is 
affected by the user input and driving style.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below. 
Mr H acquired a car through a personal contract purchase agreement. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the car was required to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply, 
then MotoNovo, as the finance provider, can be held liable.
When considering satisfactory quality, it is reasonable to consider factors such as the cars 
age and mileage and the cars cost. It is also important to assess whether the car was 
sufficiently durable.
Mr H acquired a used car in June 2021. At the time of acquisition, the car was just over three 
years old and had been driven just under 36,000 miles. The cars engine failed in December 
2022 when the car had been driven over 64,000 miles. Mr H took the car for diagnostics on 3 
January 2023 and was told Checked turbo and found impeller broken in half and not spin 
when engine it trying to startAdvise customer replace engine. Further diagnostics 
undertaken in February 2023 found top turbo damaged fins cracked/bent.Requires 
removal of turbos to inspect second turbo. Further investigation was then said to be needed. 
Based on the information provided and the fact the cars engine stopped working, it is clear 
there is a fault with the car that became apparent in December 2022.
However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the issue that 
caused the engine failure was due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of 
supply or that the issue with the car meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In this case, Mr H was able to drive the car for around 18 months before the issue arose. He 
said that he hadnt experienced issues before this date. The car had undergone an MOT in 
February 2022, while in Mr Hs possession and had initially failed due to a fuel system 
component leaking but this must have been repaired as the car passed the MOT the 
following day. This suggests the car was fit for purpose.
Mr H had also had the car serviced in May 2022, and this hadnt raised issues that would 
have suggested the problems experienced in December 2022, were present at that time. 
Given the time Mr H was able to drive the car and the mileage he was able to cover, before 
the issues arose, I do not find I have enough evidence to be able to say that the turbo and 
engine failure were due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply.
I have therefore considered whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality at supply, 
specifically whether the issue that arose means the car wasnt sufficiently durable. Based on 
the information provided, it appears that the issue that caused the engine to fail was a result 
of an issue with the turbo. When this happened, the car had been driven over 64,000 miles. 
While I understand Mr Hs comment that this shouldnt have happened given the cars age 
and mileage, and that he had maintained the car in line with the manufacturers guidelines, I 
also note that the turbos lifespan can vary and be affected by driving style. So, without 
further evidence to show that the turbo was faulty and that this resulted in it failing 
prematurely, and considering how long Mr H had been in possession of the car and the 
mileage he had driven, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that the car supplied 
wasnt sufficiently durable.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that the estimated life expectancy of the 
turbo was around 150,000 miles which suggested the turbo in his car hadnt lasted a 
reasonable amount of time and so wasnt sufficiently durable. He said that a manufacturer 
bulletin indicated that there were faults with the engines in these cars and he didnt accept 
the car was supplied fault free.
Mr H provided a letter from the garage that said that when a turbo fails there isnt always any 
warning and that due to the damage caused it was unlikely to be able to determine the 
cause. It said there were many cases of premature turbo failure on these engines and that 
its opinion was that premature failure was a failure before 150,000 miles. The letter said that 
the damage wouldnt have been caused by driving style and that if the engine wasnt 
internally inspected before supply to Mr H then it couldnt be said it was of satisfactory 
quality at supply. It further noted that the manufacturer guidelines showed servicing intervals 
up to 105,000 miles or 10 years (120 months) which it said confirmed the life expectancy to 
last beyond this point. As Mr Hs car had failed before this time it said the car had failed 
prematurely and was not durable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence provided and the wider circumstances of the complaint.
Mr H provided further evidence in response to my provisional decision, and I have 
considered this alongside reviewing the previous evidence provided. Looking at the details of 
what has happened, the key issue is the durability of the turbo as it appears it was the failure 
of the turbo that caused the engine damage. 
In its final response letter, MotoNovo said that evidence should be provided to show that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and said this would need to be in the form of an 
independent engineers report and that this would need to confirm the faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply. Details of companies that could undertake this report were 
provided. I havent seen evidence that Mr H had an independent inspection carried out by 
one of the suggested companies, but he has provided evidence from a garage which I have 
taken into consideration in my assessment.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr H was able to drive for around 18 months and 
almost 30,000 miles without an issue being identified, and he had an MOT and service 
carried out. Had there been an issue with the turbo present or developing at the point of 
supply I find, on balance, that it would likely have been identified sooner. 
However, I have also considered the point raised as to whether there is a durability issue 
due to when the turbo failed. I have taken into account the comments made about the life 
expectancy of a turbo. I appreciate the miles suggested are higher than the mileage Mr Hs 
car had travelled at the time the issue occurred, however, I also note that Mr H covered a 
high mileage in the period he was using the car (average annual mileage is generally around 
8,000 to 10,000 miles). Durability can be affected by particular conditions that put more 
stress on certain parts and so while I can see the garage has said the turbo wouldnt be 
affected by driving style, I do not think I have enough to say, given the mileage Mr H covered 
that I have the evidence to say the car wasnt sufficiently durable or wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
I have looked at the technical bulletin Mr H provided about an issue with the turbos in 
vehicles similar to his. Based on the information in the bulletin it isnt clear that this relates to 
the model that Mr H has. But putting that aside, the bulletin says that in some cases prior to 
a turbo failing it may start to whine or whistle. I note the comment made in regard to this 
technical bulletin by the garage, but I am not aware that Mr H reported there being a whine 
or whistle, rather that the oil warning light came on saying the oil was critically low. 
Therefore, while I have taken the points raised about the turbos into consideration, I do not 
find that the evidence supplied is sufficient for me to change my conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H wants and I appreciate him taking the time to provide 
additional information in response to my provisional decision. But in this case, I do not find I 
have enough evidence to uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman