DRN-3627655
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under their home insurance policy after their house was flooded.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H have a home insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead, which covers their 
home and its contents, amongst other things. They made a claim in November 2019 after a 
local river burst its banks and flooded their home up to a depth of around a metre or so.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the property the following week. 
Fairmead then accepted the claim. Mr H and Mrs H appointed their own loss assessor, who 
is also acting as their representative in making this complaint.
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here, but Id like to assure Mr H and Mrs H that Ive read in detail all of the 
submissions made by their representative and Ive considered all of the evidence and 
information provided by both parties.
In short, a dispute has arisen over the contents element of the claim. Mr H and Mrs Hs loss 
assessor submitted a claim for contents valued at just over £25,000. Fairmead made an 
initial offer to settle the claim at around £11,000, but subsequently increased this to just over 
£15,000 after the loss assessor asked them to review their position on some of the white 
goods which had been damaged by the flood.
Mr H and Mrs H believe Fairmead have unfairly reduced the amount they initially claimed for 
a number of items  and unfairly declined the claim altogether for other items. They were 
also concerned about the delay in the claim being settled. So, they made a complaint to 
Fairmead.
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint. They said they needed further information from Mr H 
and Mrs H in relation to those elements of the contents claim which had either been declined 
or paid at a reduced value.
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into and didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong.
Mr H and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a general principle in insurance that its for the policyholder, when making a claim, to 
show that theyve suffered a loss due to an insured event. And to provide information to the 
insurer so that they can properly assess the claim and settle it on fair and reasonable terms.
Thats reflected in the wording of Mr H and Mrs Hs policy which places an obligation on the 
policyholder to provide all reasonable information and assistance to Fairmead when making 
a claim.
Theres been a lot of communication back and forth between Fairmeads loss adjuster and 
Mr H and Mrs Hs loss assessor during the course of this claim. Not all of it entirely 
diplomatic. And much of it unproductive.
Its not for me to referee the points of debate in that communication. Nor would it be useful 
for me to try to address in detail every point made in that correspondence. Instead, Ill try to 
summarise the situation as I see it and set out what might need to happen next to finally 
resolve the issues and get to a final outcome for Mr H and Mrs H.
Where the claim settlement offered by Fairmead falls short of Mr H and Mrs Hs original 
expectations, there appear to be three main reasons for that, at least as far as Fairmead are 
concerned.
One  Fairmead have found what they assume to be a replacement item thats cheaper than 
the value claimed by Mr H and Mrs H.
Two  Fairmead cant find a replacement item, due they say to a lack of information, but 
accept the item was lost due to the flood and have offered a reduced amount (85% of the 
value set out in the claim).
Three  Fairmead have so far not made a settlement offer because there is, they say, no 
substantiation that the item in question was owned by Mr H and Mrs H and/or no evidence 
that it was damaged by the flood and/or no evidence about its replacement cost.
Ill deal with those three sets of reasoning  in that order. Ill then give my thoughts on the 
remaining items claimed that dont fall into any of those three categories.
Cheaper replacements
The loss adjuster has sent website links to the loss assessor for several items which they 
say can be obtained more cheaply than the originally stated claim amount.
This applies to two TVs, a DVD player, a bookcase, a dining table, a dishwasher, a 
chainsaw, a socket set, motorbike leathers and some other items of motorbike clothing, 
saddlebags and a welding unit.
The loss adjuster has asked the loss assessor to provide their own links  and/or other 
information or evidence (for example, receipts) - if they think those costings are inaccurate 
and/or the items sourced are not the same as, or equivalent to, the ones lost to Mr H and 
Mrs H as a result of the flood.
In most cases, the loss assessor hasnt yet done so  at least according to the evidence I 
have available to me from both parties. 
Its not unreasonable for Fairmead to ask the loss assessor to either accept that the items 
can be replaced at the cost theyve obtained or provide evidence or information to the 
contrary. And, if no such evidence or information is forthcoming, its not unreasonable to 
settle the claim for those items on the basis of the costs Fairmead have obtained.
Offers at 85% of claim costFairmead say theres insufficient information in some cases to be sure exactly what the item 
lost was. For example, there are no receipts to enable identification of the exact item 
purchased.
This applies to a brown (branded) handbag, a (branded) footstool, an air gun, a pine dresser, 
a wooden table and a cross trainer.
Fairmead also say that theyve researched what appear to be the same or similar items on-
line and theyve been able to identify replacements for significantly less than the amount 
claimed by Mr H and Mrs H. 
Given the difficulty identifying the exact item, theyve not attempted to calculate the 
replacement cost precisely  which they say would be impossible in any case. But theyve 
accounted for the discrepancy in costs by offering 85% of the claim cost in settlement.
On the face of it, looking at the prices Fairmead have obtained against the value in Mr H and 
Mrs Hs original claim documents, its not unreasonable for Fairmead to apply the reduction 
(to 85% of the claim cost). And Fairmead have been clear that if further information is 
provided to enable specific identification of the items, they will re-consider their position.
No substantiation of loss
Fairmead initially said they wouldnt pay out for some items they said werent evident at the 
property when their loss adjuster visited after the flood. They said theyd need further 
evidence  receipts or photographs, for example  to substantiate the loss. 
They had originally asked for reports of tests to show that some electrical items were beyond 
economical repair. But theyve withdrawn that requirement, some time ago, in light or 
representations from the loss assessor. Its no longer an issue, in other words.
For many of these items, the loss assessor has provided photographs to Fairmead only after 
this complaint was brought to us. Specially, those items are a laptop computer, a bread 
maker, a toastie machine, a popcorn duck, and a carpet cleaner. 
Fairmead have said that theyll look again those items and reconsider their position. I 
assume theyre awaiting the outcome of this complaint before they do that, which is not 
unreasonable given the background.
I cant be sure from the information I have whether that list should also include a printer  but 
suffice to say, if photographs have now been provided (or are provided in future), Fairmead 
should look again at the printer too. 
The loss assessor says theyve also provided photographs of a garden sofa, to substantiate 
its loss too. If Fairmead have those photographs, Id expect them to re-consider whether 
they substantiate the loss and, if so, to re-visit their position on the garden sofa.
Fairmead have also, so far, declined the claim for two sofas which were in the house at the 
time of the flood. These appear to have been raised on top of other furniture after Mr H and 
Mrs H got warning  a short while beforehand  that the flood was on its way.
The loss assessor says the flood water nonetheless reached the underside of the sofas. 
Hes also provided a report from the restorer he contracted on Mr H and Mrs Hs behalf. The 
restorer says the sofas were damaged. He says the wooden footings having been soaked in 
flood water and the soft parts having been affected by mould.The restorer however also admits that he didnt carry out the inspection himself at the time. 
And there are photographs which appear to show the sofas after the flood - seemingly, on 
the face of it at least, unaffected by the flood water.
Its very difficult to tell with any certainty, from the photographs weve seen, whether there 
was any damage to the sofas which was likely to have been caused by the flood. And its 
certainly not possible to tell, from those photographs, whether repair of the sofas was 
possible or whether they needed to be replaced.
As things stand, on balance, I dont think its unreasonable for Fairmead to ask for more 
evidence that the sofas were beyond economical repair before they agree to pay out for 
Mr H and Mrs Hs loss. 
I should reiterate here that it is for Mr H and Mrs H to prove their loss. And that the policy 
allows Fairmead to determine whether damaged items should be repaired / restored or 
replaced altogether.
I assume that Fairmead will consider any further evidence or information Mr H and Mrs H 
can provide in relation to the sofas.
Other items
Fairmead have applied a reduction to the settlement for clothing items to allow for wear and 
tear, as specified in the policy documents. Theres no real remaining dispute about this, as 
far as I can see. I note the loss assessor wanted shoes to be exempt from this reduction, but 
I dont accept that argument.
The policy explicitly doesnt cover parts or accessories for motorised vehicles. Fairmead 
have declined the elements of the claim relating to these. The loss assessor has suggested 
that some parts should be covered because they have a possible use outside of a car  for 
example, car radios. 
Im afraid I dont accept that argument. The original claim lists these item quite clearly as, for 
example car radio. The fact that you could theoretically listen to that radio outside of car 
doesnt mean its not a car radio (which is a car accessory and so not covered).
The claim also included a number of books which were damaged by the flood. Fairmead 
obtained prices for some of those books second-hand, whilst the policy does specify 
replacement on a new for old basis.
Fairmead tell us they obtained second-hand prices only where they couldnt find the books 
for sale as new. And theyve said that if the loss assessor can source the books as new, 
theyll increase the settlement to pay for new copies. 
Theyve also said theyll pay to replace car magazines included in the original claim if the 
loss assessor can provide evidence that these can be replaced.
Summary
For the reasons set out in the sections above, I cant reasonably conclude that Fairmead 
have acted in any way unfairly towards Mr H and Mrs H in the way theyve handled this claim 
so far.Im very sorry that Mr H and Mrs H suffered this awful and distressing experience. And I can 
understand why they might feel that its unsympathetic when Fairmead ask them to fully 
substantiate their losses. 
But its not unreasonable for Fairmead to do that. Whatever unfortunate and distressing 
event has visited itself on their customers, Fairmead are entitled to carry out their work in 
properly and thoroughly assessing and validating the damage and loss.
I note that Fairmead have already undertaken to look again at some aspects of the claim, 
where photographic evidence has now been provided. And I note that they are open to 
consider any further information or evidence Mr H and Mrs H might provide to substantiate 
the remaining elements of their claim.
Finally, I would say that this claim has been on-going for a long time now  far longer than 
Mr H and Mrs H have a right to expect given what theyve been through with the flooding of 
their home. 
Ive looked very carefully at the timeline on the handling of the complaint. I can see a number 
of long delays where Fairmead had requested further information from the loss assessor and 
were chasing a reply. I cant see any instances of significant delay caused by Fairmead 
being inactive or failing to progress things.
If I thought the requests for further information from Fairmead were unreasonable and/or an 
attempt to delay of frustrate the claim, then Id take a very different view. 
But, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Fairmead were entitled to make those requests for 
further information and evidence from the loss assessor and/or Mr H and Mrs H. And Im 
satisfied they couldnt progress or conclude the claim without that further information. When 
they couldnt progress the claim, Fairmead made substantial interim payments to Mr H and 
Mrs H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman