DRN-3503953
The complaint
Mr K complains One Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance policy and 
refused his claim.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr K took out a One Insurance motor insurance policy. He used an online 
aggregator site.  After selecting the quotation he was passed to an intermediarys website to 
complete the purchase. The intermediary passed on Mr Ks application information to One 
Insurance. 
In November 2021 Mr K made a claim on the policy for damage to his vehicle. After 
investigating the claim One Insurance wrote to Mr K to say it had been given incorrect 
information when the policy was set up. It said Mr K had failed to disclose the insured vehicle 
had previously been declared a total loss. One Insurance said if it had been given accurate 
information it wouldnt have offered cover. It said as a result it would be avoiding his policy 
(treating it as though it never existed), refusing the claim and retaining the full premium.
Mr K complained to One Insurance about its decision. In December 2021 One Insurance 
responded. It said its decision to avoid his policy, refuse the claim and retain his premium 
had been made in line with the relevant legislation. Mr K didnt accept that so came to this 
service. He would like his claim paid and compensation for the poor service hes received. 
Our investigator felt One Insurances decision that Mr K had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation was fair. So she didnt recommend it reinstate his policy, pay his claim or 
do anything differently. Mr K didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I havent responded here to every complaint point or piece of 
evidence provided. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the most significant. But I 
would like to reassure Mr K and One Insurance that I have considered everything provided 
for the complaint. 
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). 
Ive first considered if there was a misrepresentation. One Insurance has provided a 
screenshot of a list of assumptions. It says Mr K was required to confirm these to continue 
with his application when on the intermediarys website. The first assumption shown is Your 
vehicle must not be registered as a write off.
Mr K denies he was presented with the list of assumptions. Instead, he says, there was a 
pop-up box with the words Please click this checkbox to confirm your vehicle is not a total 
loss. He said he had saved searches showing this text, but unfortunately he hasnt been 
able to provide them. 
On balance I think its most likely Mr K was presented with the list of assumptions provided 
by One Insurance. It also satisfies me the insurer wanted to know about the cars previous 
write off history when deciding if it would offer cover.  
Ive seen Mr Ks cars V5 registration document. It shows the vehicle was declared as 
Category S salvage - noting This vehicle has been salvaged because of structural 
damage. Results of an online search, provided by One Insurance, show an accident and 
loss date for the damage, relevant to the salvage decision, as May 2019  thats before Mr K 
took out the policy in 2021. 
Mr Ks disputed the meaning of the terms write off and total loss. However, typically a 
vehicle is treated as a write off (also known as a total loss) when an insurer considers the 
cost to repair it to be higher than its value. 
I think its most likely the Category S salvage marker was recorded by the cars insurer, at the 
time of the May 2019 accident, as it considered it a write off or total loss. So its 
reasonable for One Insurance to say there was a misrepresentation when it was confirmed 
the vehicle wasnt registered as a write off. For the avoidance of doubt Id likely say the say 
same if total loss had been used instead of write off.   
But for One Insurance to take any action, like avoid the policy, there needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly there must have been a failure 
to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to be considered when deciding if a consumer took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. One is how specific and clear was the 
questions asked. Another is any relevant explanatory material. 
I think the assumption itself is clear and specific. As Ive said Mr Ks made comments on the 
meanings of total loss and salvage note on the vehicles V5. But Im satisfied a reasonable 
consumer would understand the assumption and what they were being asked to confirm. 
Write off, in the context of vehicles, is a commonly used and understood term. 
I think its most likely Mr K was aware the car was registered as a write off when he took out 
the policy. It was recorded on the front of the cars V5. So he would probably have been 
made aware when he received that. In a claim call recording One Insurance explains its 
discovered the car is recorded as a ...Cat S write off. In response Mr K says Im aware of 
it. He goes on to explain he had declared that status when taking out the cover. So I think 
its fair for One Insurance to say Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he confirming his car wasnt registered as a write off.  
One Insurance also needs to show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have 
offered cover - or would have only done so on different terms. Its provided underwriting 
criteria. Its also explained what would have happened if it had been told the vehicle had 
been previously written off. Im satisfied it wouldnt have offered cover. That means there 
was a qualifying misrepresentation. It also means One Insurances decision to avoid the 
policy and decline the claim was fair and made in line with CIDRA.
Mr Ks said his previous insurers werent concerned about the vehicles salvage category. I 
accept thats possible. Insurers have different underwriting and acceptance criteria. However for this complaint Im only concerned with One Insurances. And as Ive said its shown it 
wouldnt have offered cover if had been told of the write off history of the vehicle.  
Where a qualifying misrepresentation is considered deliberate or reckless CIDRA allows the 
insurer to retain the full premium. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr K was most likely 
asked to confirm the car wasnt registered as a write off. I think he most likely understood 
what he was being asked to confirm. Considering his claim call with One Insurance Im 
persuaded he was aware, at the point of taking out the cover, that the car was registered as 
a write off. However, it seems he chose to confirm it wasnt. So I cant say One Insurances 
decision that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless is unfair or wasnt made in 
line with CIDRA. That means Im not going to interfere with its decision to retain the 
premium. 
Mr Ks complained about poor service and delay from One Insurance. I havent seen 
anything to persuade me it was guilty of either when dealing with the claim and avoidance. 
So Im not going to require it to pay Mr K any compensation or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require One Insurance Limited to reinstate Mr Ks 
policy, reconsider his claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman