DRN-3235558
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to him. 
What happened
Mr W had two loans with Everyday Loans between September 2018 and April 2019 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 5 Sep 2018 £1,000 18m £134.25 15 Mar 2020 15 Apr 2019
With loan 2
2 15 Apr 2019 £2,250 30m £230.77 24 Oct 2021 Ongoing
Mr W says Everyday Loanss checks didnt go far enough to determine whether the 
loans were affordable to him. He says there was clear evidence that he was already 
facing financial difficulties before he took out the loans.
Everyday Loans says it verified Mr Ws job and income, reviewed bank statements and a 
payslip, and conducted a credit search. It adds that it used a statistical average to 
estimate his other living expenses and the checks showed the loans were affordable. It 
says it believes its checks were proportionate and the repayments were sustainable over 
the term of the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that 
Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks for the loans but that the information 
indicated Mr W was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay loan 2. She recommended that 
any payments made towards loan 2 should be deducted from the principal and that any 
overpayments should be refunded with 8% interest. She said that if any principal remained 
then Everyday Loans should attempt to set up a suitable repayment plan for it. She also 
said that any adverse information about loan 2 should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
Everyday Loans responded to say, in summary, that Mr W had no defaults, county court 
judgements or missed payments in the 4 months prior to loan 2 and his bank account 
was well-managed. It said that although his indebtedness had increased, it did not 
consider the repayments were unsustainable as demonstrated by its affordability 
calculation.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr W and to Everyday Loans on 25 November 2021. Ive 
summarised my findings:
I was satisfied Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 showing:
oMr W was using the loan for debt consolidation and a holiday;
oHis average monthly salary was around £1,300 and he said he paid £320 
towards the mortgage, although bank statements indicated this was £350;
oNo evidence of the weekly £34.40 child benefit that Mr W said he received;
oMr W received income for ad hoc work of around £1,200 in the month;
oFour defaulted accounts from 2013 and 2016, to which he paid £70 monthly;
oMr Ws active credit accounts included:
Three credit cards with a combined balance of £675;
Two telecoms accounts with monthly payments totalling £30;
oMr W was paying almost £1,000 per month on child maintenance, insurance, 
television, phone, car tax, fuel and food;
I accepted Everyday Loans said it didnt include Mr Ws extra income in affordability 
calculations and I considered that was reasonable given it was not a guaranteed 
income stream and Mr Ws loan repayments needed to be sustained for 18 months;
I found that Everyday Loanss estimate for Mr Ws other regular expenditure was 
around £250 less than what was evidenced by his bank statements and, as such, this 
made the repayments on loan 1 unaffordable for Mr W;
So, whilst I was satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks I 
couldnt agree that the repayments on the loan were sustainable for its 18-month 
term; Indeed I noted Mr W had a direct debit returned in November 2018 and re-
financed the loan for more money in April 2019.
Everyday Loans carried out the same checks again for loan 2 which showed:
oMr W was using the loan for car repairs;
oHis average monthly salary was around £1,300 based on bank statements;
oMr Ws food spend had decreased, but he paid his partner around £600, so 
it was reasonable to assume that included a share of the mortgage plus bills;
oMr Ws income for the ad hoc work came to around £1,000 in the month;
oMr W had settled the defaulted accounts in October 2018;
oMr Ws credit file showed:
Hed settled one of his previous credit cards but had taken out two 
more since loan 1. His combined balance on four cards was £2,000;
Two telecoms accounts with monthly payments totalling £30;
Two new mail order accounts with a combined balance of £655;
oMr W was paying £50 per month towards a loan that wasnt on his credit file;
oHed taken out a £5,500 loan in October 2018  monthly repayments were 
£235, but it was settled in February 2019 when re-financed by his partner;
o£630 of expenditure on insurance, television, phone, car tax, food and fuel;
oThe use of two short-term loan providers.
I acknowledged Everyday Loans used a higher income figure but the payslip on which 
it based its calculation was the highest of the weekly receipts on the bank statement.
As before, I didnt find it was reasonable to use Mr Ws ad hoc additional income in 
an affordability calculation for a loan that was to be repaid over 30 months;The affordability calculation showed Mr W was spending more than his regular income 
and was starting to show signs he was struggling financially. His credit commitment 
had increased, and hed started to use short-term lenders. I also found it likely that 
some of the money he paid to his partner was to repay the loan shed taken out.
In summary, I found it was irresponsible to lend to Mr W and so my provisional decision was 
that I upheld the complaint about both loans.
Neither party responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr W;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding 
the loans up to the settlement date.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from the interest. Everyday 
Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman