DRN-3725273
The complaint
Ms C complains Capquest Debt Recovery Limited are asking her to repay a debt she says 
was taken out fraudulently.
A charity has supported Ms C in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer to her 
in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Ms C says a former friend of hers took out two accounts in her name without her knowledge 
or permission with a company Ill refer to as S. Shes unhappy Capquest are asking her to 
repay the debt which she says is nothing to do with her.
My understanding is S sold these two accounts to another company who Ill call A. They then 
asked Capquest to collect the debt on their behalf.
Capquest said they contacted Ms C with a number of questions, but didnt hear back, so 
based their decision on the information available to them. And, they said having done so, felt 
fraud hadnt been committed, so asked Ms C to arrange a repayment plan.
Unhappy with this Ms C asked us to look into things further. One of our Investigators did so, 
and ultimately felt there wasnt enough evidence suggesting she wasnt responsible for the 
debt to say Capquest should stop asking her to repay it.
Ms C didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain the differing roles of the parties being referred to in this 
decision.
S are the company who the accounts were originally opened with, A are the debt purchaser 
and now own the accounts, but asked Capquest to collect the debt. In this decision, I can 
only make findings about Capquests actions, rather than anything S may or may not have 
done. I should add I can see in May 2021 Capquest said A had taken Ms Cs account back, 
and Capquest said the account was on hold with A until an outcome is received from our 
service. I can also see we asked Capquest for an update more recently, but no reply was 
received, so Im unclear if thats still the position.
Given this relates to Ms C disputing the accounts themselves, in effect all I can decide is 
whether Capquest have acted fairly when she raised her concerns. 
Generally, Id expect a debt collector to be satisfied they have enough information the debt is 
likely to belong to the person theyre contacting. Here, I think they do. Capquest have 
evidence from S which shows the account was opened in Ms Cs name, at her address, 
payments were made and so on. So, at face value, there is probably enough information to 
say Capquest have acted fairly in asking Ms C to repay the balance.
But, as the accounts in question were opened with S, this means Capquest are unlikely to be 
best placed to carry out the investigation into Ms Cs concerns the account is fraudulent. I 
can see its been suggested on several occasions to Ms C she take her concerns to S, but 
each time she said she wanted to wait for the outcome of this complaint before doing so.
Ultimately, I think Capquest have tried to be helpful in carrying out the investigation they 
have when Ms C raised her concerns  and Im satisfied there is enough information for 
them to have reasonably contacted her and ask her to repay the debt. So, I dont think 
theyve done anything wrong.
If Ms C subsequently contacts S now, and they ultimately decide the account was taken out 
fraudulently, then I wouldnt expect Capquest to get back in touch regarding this debt.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party replied to my provisional decision by the deadline with further information for 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new information, Ive seen no reason to depart from the 
outcome I reached, and I dont think Capquest need to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman