DRN-3746109
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her account and demanded that 
she repay her overdraft.
Background
In November 2021, Lloyds took the decision to close Miss As account and it sent her a letter 
confirming that it would be doing so in 30 days at this time. Miss A complained about Lloyds 
actions. Lloyds didnt uphold Miss As complaint. As Miss A remained dissatisfied, Miss A 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards    
Miss A and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss A, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss A is unhappy 
that Lloyds closed her account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer with 
an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
Furthermore, while Miss A is unhappy that her account was closed with only 30 days notice, 
Ive reviewed Lloyds actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient grounds to close Miss As account. I realise that 
Lloydss decision will have been very disappointing to Miss A and I can appreciate why the 
closure of her account will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in 
a position to be able to tell Lloyds it has to continue offering Miss A an account in 
circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide her with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Miss A is unhappy at the way that Lloyds removed her overdraft and 
recorded adverse information against her. However, notwithstanding the fact that it is normal 
practice to ask for an overdraft to be repaid when an account is closed, Im particularly 
mindful here that Miss A had been in discussions with Lloyds about overdraft difficulties for 
some time. Given the period of time that these discussions had ongoing for, I would have 
expected Lloyds to have begun the process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss As 
overdraft in the way that it did, even if it hadnt have decided to close her account for other 
reasons.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. For example, it stops further charges, which the notes appear 
to suggest Miss A was struggling to repay, from being added. And asking Lloyds to reinstate 
the overdraft here, or remove any adverse information, when Miss A wasnt able to repay 
this debt in line with the initial arrangements and it seems unlikely Miss A is even now able 
to, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss As interests or that of any would be 
future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss As overdraft when it did. As this is 
the case and Miss A didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds was entitled to withdraw Miss As overdraft and report adverse information to 
credit reference agencies. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss A. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Lloyds was entitled to close her account and take the action it did 
in relation to her overdraft. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman