DRN-3985998
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Vacation 
Finance Limited (VFL) rejected her claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in 
respect of a holiday product. I gather the purchase was made by Mrs B and her husband, 
but as the finance agreement was in Mrs Bs name she is the eligible complainant. In this 
decision for simplicity I will refer to Mrs B as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs B purchased a holiday product from a company I will call A at a cost of 
£11,700. This was funded in part by a loan from VFL and the balance came from trading in 
an existing product. 
In April 2022 PR submitted a letter of claim to VFL. The details of this are well known to both 
parties so in the interests of brevity I will simply summarise the key points.
It said Mrs B had been approached while on holiday using her existing product and had been 
aggressively targeted. She had agreed to upgrade to a new points based product. She had 
been trying to sell her old product and was persuaded the new one was more sellable. PR 
said it remains unsold. Mrs B was led to believe she was purchasing an investment which 
was contrary to the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the Regulations).
She had also been misled by A when it told her the product was only available at a special 
price that day. PR also alleged that Mrs B was encouraged to take out a loan with VFL and 
no affordability checks had been carried out. It also said she was not given time to consider 
the documentation which was over 100 pages in length. PR claimed there was an unfair 
relationship due A acting on behalf of VFL which had paid commission to A.
VFL rejected the claim and disputed the allegations. It noted that Mrs B had a 14 day 
withdrawal period which she had not used. It pointed out the contradiction in PRs claims 
which said she had been forced to spend hours at the presentation, but didnt have time to 
read the documentation. VFL also said it had carried out appropriate affordability checks and 
Mrs B had been able to maintain her monthly payments.
It said there was no evidence the product had been sold as an investment and Mrs B had 
made a number of purchases from A and so would have understood what she was buying. 
As to the alleged breach of contract VFL said the management of the timeshare clubs had 
been taken over by a new entity and Mrs B had access to the accommodation as she had 
before. Finally, it explained that it had not paid commission to A.
PR brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Our investigator concluded that there was insufficient evidence of any misrepresentation and 
PR had not established that there had been an unfair relationship or a breach of contract. 
PR didnt agree and made general points about A saying that it churned sales and Mrs B 
thought she was buying an investment. It said that it was very likely that A sold the product 
as an investment and that Mrs B was led to believe it could be easily resold. It said this 
breached the Regulations and A had also failed to provide key information, but didnt specify 
what information had not been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. PR has made a number of claims, but has not submitted much 
evidence in support of them. I have noted the claims made by PR, but I have not seen a 
copy of the agreement signed by Mrs B (apart from a single page) nor any other paperwork 
supplied by A at the time of sale. PR has simply made several assertions which are not 
supported by the documentary evidence.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs B) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (VFL) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should she choose to.
Its important to note that, as VFL was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR has said that Mrs B was told that her purchase was an investment. While I was not present I do not consider that I am able to conclude the product was misrepresented. I have 
seen no explanation of how that could be the case or why Mrs B believed that the purchase 
of points would be an investment. If she had been told that  or had otherwise believed that 
to be the case  I would have expected her to ask for more information.
Although I am aware of the types of agreement used by A I cannot be certain what Mrs B 
signed. PR has suggested that it is likely A sold the product as an investment, but I dont 
believe that is sufficiently persuasive to allow me to require VFL to refund the costs to Mrs B. 
In short, PR is asking that VFL refund a significant sum of money, but has not given 
sufficient evidence in support of its claims. I am aware that some sales representatives have 
referred to these products as investments in future holidays, but that does not mean they 
were sold as financial investments. However, the paperwork usually explains that the 
products are not financial investments, but I cannot say what was contained in the 
agreement signed by Mrs B as a copy has not been supplied.
Quite simply, I do not believe I can say that there was misrepresentation such that I can 
uphold this complaint.
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of A in 2020 led to a breach of contract. I gather new 
management companies were appointed, and Mrs B was able to use the timeshare as usual 
after that date.
In July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said: The JLs are pleased to 
confirm that FNTC has taken over as the new manager of the Clubs and further confirm that, 
as a result, the Clubs will continue to operate for the benefit of members. I presume Mrs B 
received a copy of this letter or something similar.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mrs Bs purchase of the points remain 
available to her and are unaffected by the liquidation. Indeed the agreements used by A 
usually allow for the liquidation of A and its replacement by another provider. That said, I 
cannot say if this was in Mrs Bs contract since I have not seen a copy of it.
Given I have not been persuaded that the product was sold as a financial investment I 
cannot conclude that the removal of a sales service by A can been regarded as a breach of 
contract.
S. 140A claims
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs B and VFL 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s.140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs B could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against VFL anyway.Mrs Bs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that VFL assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that VFL owed Mrs B a duty of care to ensure that A complied with the 
Regulations and it argues at length that the payment of commission created an unfair 
relationship. However VFL has confirmed it paid no commission. Nor can I see any clear 
evidence that shows A breached the Timeshare Regulations. 
I appreciate Mrs B is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that VFL acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman