DRN-3515871
The complaint
Mr B and Miss C hold a joint mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. Mr B complained 
that Nationwide agreed a payment holiday on the mortgage. He said that he hadnt approved 
this, and he thought different, more tailored support should have been offered.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with Nationwide. This mortgage is held jointly with his former partner, 
Miss C. Miss C has agreed to our service looking into this case, but has otherwise taken no 
part in this case. This complaint responds to concerns that Mr B has raised with us. 
Mr B said Miss C applied for a mortgage holiday, under coronavirus pandemic guidance, and 
said hed agreed to this. But he wasnt happy for the payment holiday to be on the mortgage. 
Mr B said that he thought that this may have been a mistake, and Miss C may only have 
intended to enquire about a payment holiday, not to actually apply. Mr B also said 
Nationwide should have done more to confirm that he had agreed to any request too. And he 
felt Nationwide should also have offered much more detailed, tailored support, instead of just 
pushing its customers onto payment holidays. He thought Nationwide was profiteering from 
the pandemic. 
Nationwide said it now understood, from Mr B, that he and Miss C had separated. But it 
hadnt been made aware of this at the time when the application for a payment holiday was 
made on 23 March 2020. The application did check if both parties to the mortgage had 
consented to the change. 
Nationwide showed us that Mr B had contacted it on 25 March 2020, to say a payment 
holiday had been set up by the other account holder, and he hadnt approved this. Mr B 
wanted to know what the impact would be if he paid his half of the monthly contractual 
payment, and the other half was unpaid. Nationwide explained then that without a payment 
holiday on the account, this would quickly impact on Mr Bs credit file. 
Nationwide said it wasnt able to provide more tailored support to its customers at the time, 
due to the volume of applications and the numbers of its customers needing support. 
Nationwide said when Mr B got in touch, it did tell him it would consider removing the 
payment holiday if he requested this. But Nationwide said Mr B hadnt requested this. It said 
it had also made clear that Mr B could keep paying the mortgage if he wanted to.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had set out guidance for mortgage providers, telling them how to support 
customers who were experiencing financial difficulties during the coronavirus pandemic. The 
FCA said that payment holidays of up to three months, and then up to six months, should be 
offered and approved if requested. The FCA didnt say what method mortgage providers had 
to use to process applications, and our investigator didnt think it was unfair for Nationwide to 
choose to do this online.
Our investigator said that, under the guidance in place at the time, Nationwide didnt have to 
carry out detailed checks into the financial situation of the person applying for the payment 
holiday. And she said it would have been very difficult for Nationwide to do that at the time, 
given the high number of applications for payment holidays, and the fact that lenders were 
also putting in place emergency arrangements to cope with the pandemic then. 
Our investigator said the terms of Mr Bs mortgage didnt require both parties to consent to 
changes. It would be usual for both parties to agree before changes being made. But she 
said the circumstances around the pandemic were unexpected and she thought it was fair 
for Nationwide to take the approach it had taken to requests. 
Our investigator understood that some of the different options Mr B had suggested to us, to 
help with financial difficulties, would have put him in a better position. But the aim of the 
guidance was to support a very large number of customers quickly, during a time of 
widespread difficulty. She thought Nationwide had followed the guidance it was given on 
how to support customers at that time. And she thought Nationwide had reviewed Mr Bs 
complaint promptly. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had to do any more. 
Mr B got in touch to say that the FCA had told him that checks should still have been carried 
out before the payment holiday was granted. And he still didnt think that his former partner 
had actually applied for this holiday. But our investigator said the online form that had been 
completed made clear that this was an application. And the FCA guidance on financial 
difficulties linked to the coronavirus pandemic did suspend the usual checks that a mortgage 
provider would have done before offering a payment holiday. 
Our investigator said this guidance didnt deal specifically with joint mortgages, but she said 
it would be fair for the payment holiday to be applied if one account holder said that they 
were in difficulties, unless the other party was willing to make the monthly payments instead. 
She said if monthly payments werent being made, then both parties were better off with a 
payment holiday on the account. And our investigator shared other recent decisions in 
similar cases with Mr B, so he could see our services overall approach to cases like this.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator.
A number of emergency arrangements were put in place to deal with the coronavirus 
pandemic. As part of this, the regulator of financial services, the FCA, told mortgage 
providers they should grant payment holidays to customers whose finances had been 
affected by the pandemic and who would struggle to make their payments.
The missed payments would be deferred, not written off. But importantly, deferred payments 
would not be treated as or reported to credit files as arrears.The number of people seeking help, and the position of lenders at the time (they also had to 
deal with the impact of the pandemic on their own staff, and working arrangements) meant 
that lenders werent able to make detailed enquiries every time someone asked for a 
deferral. So the FCA said they could grant a deferral where the borrower certified that they 
had been impacted, without the need for further checks.
Mr Bs former partner applied for a payment holiday under these arrangements. Nationwide 
has shown us the online form that was completed. Im satisfied that the screens that were 
completed made clear that this was an application, it wasnt just an enquiry.
Mr B said he didnt know about this when the application was made, and he thought 
Nationwide should have checked this with him. 
Nationwide said it didnt know at that time that Mr B and his former partner had separated. 
Because of that, and because of the exceptional circumstances at the time, I dont think 
Nationwide did anything wrong when it acted on what Miss C said, and put a payment 
holiday on the mortgage. 
Mr B thought that Nationwide should have offered much more tailored support to Miss C. He 
also said it should have investigated their financial circumstances in more detail. But the 
effect of the guidance was that payment holidays were to be granted quickly. So I dont think 
Nationwide had to investigate the financial circumstances of Mr B and Miss C in detail, or to 
offer more detailed and tailored support to them, rather than granting a payment holiday in 
March 2020.
Mr B may not have been aware of the application that Miss C made at the time, but he must 
have become aware of this quickly, because he contacted Nationwide to query the payment 
holiday only two days later. 
Nationwide said Mr B had never actually asked for the payment holiday to be taken off the 
mortgage. And the notes it took at the time say that Mr B only ever suggested he might pay 
half of the monthly mortgage payments. So I dont think he had offered to pay it all.
I wouldnt expect Nationwide to proactively remove a payment holiday without a direct 
request from the parties. So if Mr B didnt ask for the payment holiday to be removed, I 
wouldnt expect Nationwide to do that.
But even if he did ask Nationwide to take off the payment holiday, Mr B told Nationwide that 
he was paying half the mortgage, and he didnt offer to pay any more than this. Mr B also 
said he was concerned about how this would affect a future mortgage application from him. 
In these circumstances, I would expect Nationwide to have explained to Mr B that taking the 
payment holiday off the mortgage, where the full monthly payment wasnt being made, would 
quickly result in missed payments being noted on his credit file. And that would be likely to 
have a worse effect on any future mortgage application than leaving the payment holiday on.
Nationwides notes of the conversation it had with Mr B make me think it did explain this to 
him. 
So Mr B was better off with the payment holiday remaining on the account. And for that 
reason, even if Mr B told Nationwide that he thought the payment holiday should be 
removed, I would still say it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to leave the payment 
holiday on the account, and also to renew it when it was later asked to do so. 
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman