DRN-4186801
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that PREPAID FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (PFSL) charged him fees
on a declined payment.
What happened
Mr L attempted to use his PFSL account to pay £1,800 to his mortgage lender. The
transaction didnt go through, but Mr L later noticed that the funds had debited from his PFSL
account along with a further charge of £36, which equated to 2% of the attempted
transaction amount.
Mr L contacted PFSL and obtained a reimbursement of the £1,800 to his account, but the
£36 charge wasnt reimbursed. Mr L wasnt happy about this, and he didnt feel the charging
of 2% of the attempted transaction amount by PFSL was in-line with the terms and
conditions of the account. So, he raised a complaint.
PFSL responded to Mr L but didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the
situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L wasnt satisfied with PFSLs response, so
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that PFSL had reimbursed the
£36 back to Mr Ls account in conjunction with another fee reimbursement of £0.21, and so
felt that no further corrective action was required by PFSL. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 May 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that PFSL have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the circumstances and 
factors of a complaint into consideration.
In this instance, Mr L is unhappy that £1,800 was debited from his PFSL account 
balance despite the attempted payment to his mortgage lender not being successful, 
as well as with the length of time it then took for PFSL to reimburse that £1,800 to his 
account.
However, when an attempted payment from a credit account is made, it can be the 
case  depending on where in the payment chain the attempted payment broke down 
 that the credit provider will need to maintain the attempted transaction amount in a 
pending status for some time. And this is because its possible that the merchant with 
whom the transaction was attempted may resolve any issues with the attempted 
payment such that it might complete, even after several days.
And so, while I can understand how it may have been worrying for Mr L to have not 
received a reimbursement of the £1,800 to his account as quickly as he would have 
liked, I dont feel that this constitutes any form of unfair act here  for the reasons 
explained above.
Mr L is also unhappy with the £36 charge that was levied on the £1,800 attempted
transaction amount and feels that such a charge isnt warranted by the terms of his 
PFSL account. But Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account provided by 
PFSL and having done so its clear that such a 2% charge  specifically, a cash 
advance fee  is included within the terms of the account.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that PFSL havent charged a fee on Mr Ls account which 
isnt permitted by the account terms. And I also note that the fee was reimbursed 
back to Mr Ls account in conjunction with another cash advance fee of £0.21, 
meaning that no corrective reimbursements are outstanding or required from PFSL 
regarding this matter at this time.
Finally, Im aware that Mr L is unhappy with the length of time  approximately six 
weeks  it took for PFSL to reimburse the £36 fee back to his account. I agree that 
this is a longer timeframe than would generally be expected, and I also feel that 
PFSL could and should have better explained the taking of the fee, and that it would 
be reimbursed back to Mr Ls account, to Mr L when he first contacted them about it.
Indeed, by missing this opportunity to acknowledge and explain the fee to Mr L, I feel 
that PFSL have unfairly caused Mr L a degree of worry and inconvenience that he 
reasonably shouldnt have incurred here. And so, Ill be provisionally upholding this 
aspect of Mr Ls complaint in on this basis and instructing PFSL to make a payment 
of £50 to Mr L as compensation for the unnecessary trouble and upset that I feel hes 
experienced.
In arriving at this compensation amount Ive considered the events that unfolded 
here, including the concern and inconvenience experienced by Mr L as Ive explained 
it above, but also that £36 is a relatively small amount and that theres no evidence 
that Mr L incurred any detriment as a result of the £36 not being available to him 
during the six-week period it took PFSL to reimburse that amount. And having taken 
all these factors into account, I feel that £50 is a fair compensation amount.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr L and PFSL the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a final 
decision. 
However, neither Mr L or PFSL responded to my provisional decision. As such, I see no 
reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ls favour on the basis 
described above.
Putting things right
PFSL must make a payment of £50 to Mr L.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against PREPAID FINANCIAL SERVICES 
LIMITED on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman