DRN-3020211
Complaint
Mr G has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly continued applying charges to his 
overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint and thought TSB should have realised 
Mr Gs overdraft had become unsustainable for him by May 2018 and so it needed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Gs overdraft from this point. 
TSB disagreed with our adjudicators view and said thered been no bank error. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and associated fees from May 2018. By this point, it was evident 
Mr G was having difficulty managing his money. 
Ive seen what TSB has said about some of the transactions on Mr Gs account. But I think it 
has ignored the fact that a cursory look at his statements leading up to period concerned 
shows the account hadnt seen a credit balance for an extended period of time. Mr G had 
also gone over his limit and its clear that he was reliant on payday lending. Id also point out 
that the credits going into the account didnt suggest that the facility could be repaid within a 
reasonable period with interest, fees and charges continually being added either. 
So notwithstanding Mr G not having got in touch, I think that by May 2018 TSB ought to have 
realised that Mr G was experiencing difficulty. And it should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr G with forbearance rather than adding even 
more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that TSB should have realised that Mr G was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As TSB didnt react to Mr Gs account usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr G lost out because of what TSB did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from May 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs credit 
file, it should backdate this to May 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give    
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman