DRN-4138798
The complaint
Mr S believes Advantage Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement hed applied for.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. The agreement was for £8,983 over 48 months, with monthly repayments of 
£343.64.
Mr S has complained that Advantage didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Hes said that, if Advantage had carried out better checks, they wouldnt have approved the 
finance. He also said that hed been in arrears since the agreement started and had been 
unable to clear the arrears. He also said that the only options hed been given were to 
continue to pay the finance or return the car and pay any outstanding balance.
Advantage considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr S could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Advantage said theyd checked Mr Ss wage skip, as well as verifying his income through a 
credit reference agency. They also said theyd checked Mr Ss credit file, and estimated his 
other outgoings using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). And this showed the 
finance was affordable to Mr S.
Our investigator said that Advantage hadnt been able to evidence all these checks, so he 
couldnt say if the checks were reasonable and proportionate. So, he considered what 
Advantage wouldve likely seen had these checks been done, and from this he didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong by approving the finance.
The investigator also considered how Advantage dealt with Mr Ss financial difficulties. And 
he said theyd made a number of payment arrangements, which were broken by Mr S; and 
theyd offered to reduce Mr Ss payments to a more manageable amount, which Mr S 
declined. The investigator also said that when, in February 2022, Mr S told them he couldnt 
pay the next payment, Advantage agreed to spread this over the next four payments. As 
such, the investigator thought Advantage had treated Mr S fairly, with forbearance, and with 
due consideration.
Mr S said hed now made an offer to Advantage to pay £1,000 a month to clear the arrears, 
as well as making an offer to clear the arrears as a lump sum. But, because Advantage had 
terminated the agreement, they were looking to repossess the car instead. Mr S said this 
would leave him with a bill of around 10k and no car to get to work. 
The investigator explained that Advantage were able to repossess the car and werent 
obliged to agree to any further payment plans. Mr S wasnt happy with this and said just to 
confirm this complaint is regarding [Advantages] refusal to accept a payment plan and they 
want to repossess the car, send it to auction and me pay the outstanding balance.
Given this, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
S would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Advantage make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Advantage didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ss 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the payslip Mr S provided to Advantage as part of his application. This 
shows his gross income for the week ending 17 September 2021 was £1,007.75 (net income 
£738.22). It also shows a gross year to date income of £16,213.38, which equates to around 
£675 gross a week (around £529 a week or £2,295 a month net). Based on this, and their 
electronic verification check, Advantage used an income of £2,376 a month  the amount Mr 
S had declared on the application form.
Advantage have also confirmed that, from ONS and other data, theyd calculated his 
outgoings as £982 a month. Although Mr S had declared he was single and living with his 
parents at the time, this calculation included rent, utilities, council tax, and £390 for his 
existing credit commitments. Given this, Advantage thought the finance was affordable.
Im satisfied that Advantage acted reasonably by calculating Mr Ss expenditure in the way 
they did, and doing so is standard industry practice. However, without a copy of the credit 
check they did (which Advantage cant provide), I cant be satisfied that these checks were 
reasonable and proportionate, and that no further checks were required. As such, Ive gone 
on to consider what Advantage would likely have found had reasonable and proportionate 
checks been carried out.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr S has provided a copy of his up to date credit file. While this is not the same as 
Advantage wouldve seen in September 2021, the historic data on what Mr S has provided 
gives a good indication of what Advantage wouldve seen at the time. As such, Im satisfied 
its reasonable for me to rely on this.
Mr Ss credit file shows a finance agreement with two missed payments that were cleared in 
August 2018; a late payment in May 2017 on a finance agreement that was cleared in 
January 2018; two finance agreements with up to three missed payments that were both 
cleared in October 2017; and a finance agreement with up to six missed payments in 2019 
that was cleared by a partial settlement in January 2020. In addition to these, there were two 
finance agreements that had had no missed payments and were also cleared.
While the credit file shows that Mr S had had some financial difficulties in the past, there was 
nothing in the 18-months before the application to Advantage to indicate these were still 
ongoing. The only active credit agreement at the time of the application was a credit card 
thatd been opened in August 2021. While I cant see any historic balances for this, in their 
affordability calculation Advantage allowed for £390 payments to Mr Ss credit commitments.
From my understanding, Advantage also werent made aware of Mr Ss domestic situation, 
and instead had been told he was single and living with his parents. Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that this was incorrect, and I cant say that Advantage have done anything wrong by 
not taking into consideration something they were unaware of at the time. However, 
regardless of this, Ive seen that Advantage allowed for housing, utilities, and council tax 
costs in their affordability calculation anyway.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im satisfied that, 
had Advantage carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid 
reason why they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for 
this reason why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mr S paid, or of 
any interest and fees he may have been charged.
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
While Mr S started missing payments from the outset of the agreement, Advantage worked 
with him to put payment arrangements in place, to bring the account up to date. But Mr S 
failed to keep to these arrangements. And payments continued to be missed. As a result, 
Advantage advised Mr S of his options to end the agreement. 
When dealing with customers in financial difficulties, Advantage are required to treat them 
with forbearance and due consideration. And Im satisfied that, in offering to assist Mr S as 
they did, Advantage have done this, and they havent treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
Its also my understanding from the evidence that, due to the arrears and because Mr S 
failed to maintain any payment arrangements, that the agreement was then terminated, and 
Advantage have taken steps to repossess the vehicle. And this is in line with the terms of the 
agreement Mr S signed. While Mr S has subsequently offered to repay the arrears (either by 
a lump sum or increased payments), Advantage arent required to accept this offer. And I 
dont think theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably by doing so.
Finally, I havent seen anything else to make me think Advantage acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Advantage Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman