DRN-3881783
Complaint
Mrs S has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was irresponsibly lent as it was provided at a time when she was already 
struggling and couldnt afford the payments.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mrs S with a loan for £2,000.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £120. Mrs S had previously been provided with a 
loan in October 2015 but weve already separately explained why we cant look at whether 
that loan was provided fairly and reasonably. As a result all reference made to loan, in this 
decision, is made with reference to the loan Avant Credit provided in July 2016.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs S complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mrs S with this loan. So he thought that Mrs S complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs S complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it obtained information on Mrs S 
income and some of her expenditure as well as carrying out a credit check. Im concerned at 
the results of the credit check which shows that Mrs S was already significantly indebted  
she had recently taken out two of her accounts and her revolving credit balances were 
towards her limit. Furthermore, the credit check shows that Mrs S had defaulted on previous 
accounts too. So Im persuaded by what Mrs S has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time.
As this is the case, I think that Mrs S wasnt in a position where she would have been able to 
make the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. So Im satisfied 
that Avant Credit ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs S. 
As Avant Credit provided Mrs S with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs S has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs S lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mrs S by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges she paid as a result of this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs S to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Mrs S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman