DRN-2585280
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to recover £2,000 he lost as part of a 
scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons.
In this instance, Nationwide was the payment service provider that received the 
payment of £2,000 (the receiving bank) from Mr Ms account with Natwest (the 
sending bank) on 21 November 2018. It subsequently became apparent that Mr M 
had been scammed and he contacted both the sending and receiving banks to 
attempt to recover the money. 
The relevant obligations on Nationwide as the receiving bank at the time can be 
found in The Payment Service Regulations 2017. Regulation 90(3) states that The 
payees payment service provider must co-operate with the payers payment service 
provider in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by providing the payers 
payment service provider all the relevant information for the collection of funds. 
Natwest got in touch with Nationwide on 21 February 2019 in an attempt to recover 
the funds. I can see that Nationwide complied with Natwests request and informed it 
that no funds remained in the account. So Im satisfied it complied with its obligations 
at the time to co-operate with Natwests efforts to recover the funds.
Mr M says he contacted Nationwide on 22 November 2018 to report his suspicions 
about the payment he had made. At that point, it said he would need to contact his 
own bank (Natwest) who would contact it to dispute the payment. I appreciate that 
Mr M made Nationwide aware of the potential fraud on 22 November 2018  but by 
that point the funds had already been removed from the fraudsters account (having 
been withdrawn the day before on 21 November 2018). So, even if Nationwide ought 
reasonably to have taken action when Mr M first brought the fraud to their attention, it 
wouldve made no difference to his attempts to recover the money because the funds 
had already been withdrawn when he spoke to the bank.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide complied with its obligations and hasnt done anything wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman