DRN-3885769
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc declined to refund his 
purchase of some airline tickets.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr D bought a return flight with Ryanair for over £300 and paid for the tickets 
with his M&S credit card. Later the same day, he became aware that he had a hospital 
appointment (for an MRI scan) booked for the same day as the outbound flight, so he 
decided to cancel the flights. However, Ryanair told him that the flights were non-refundable. 
Ryanair also told him that he could change to a different flight for free, as the flight was going 
to be delayed by more than two hours, but Mr D did not wish to do that.
Mr D asked M&S to refund his purchase. But M&S told him that he had no chargeback 
rights, and no rights under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that section 
75 did not apply because Mr D had made his credit card payment to a third party, Opodo, 
which had arranged the flight with Ryanair; this meant that M&S was not liable under section 
75 for anything Ryanair did. Furthermore, M&S said that there had been no breach of 
contract by Ryanair, because its terms and conditions made it clear that tickets were non-
refundable. It also said that Ryanairs offer to let Mr D take a different flight on a different 
date was a reasonable solution. For the same reasons, it said he had no chargeback rights.
Mr D did not accept that explanation. In particular, he argued that Ryanairs terms and 
conditions specifically allow a refund where a passenger cannot fly due to medical reasons. 
He brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it, for the same 
reasons as M&S had given. In relation to Ryanairs clause about refunding customers who 
cannot travel for health reasons, he said that this clause was not as broad as Mr D had said 
it was, and that it did not help Mr D. That was because the clause is only about people who 
are too ill to travel, not just for when somebody has a hospital appointment which clashes 
with their flight.
Mr D insisted that he had had a valid reason not to travel, and he and his GP had not known 
whether he was too ill to travel or not. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons my colleague gave.
Paragraph 10.4 of Ryanairs terms and conditions says:
If someone on your booking becomes seriously ill and is unable to travel, or if they 
pass away before your trip, [we] may:
refund you the total amount for everyone travelling on your booking; or, if 
appropriate,
waive the flight change fee, along with any restrictions associated with changing 
your flights.
You must supply suitable evidence of the serious illness or death before the date 
you were due to travel.
I have seen no evidence that Mr D was so unwell that he was unable to travel. He just had 
an appointment for an MRI scan. So I do not agree that this clause applied to his situation. 
Paragraph 10.1 says that money paid for flights is non-refundable, except where paragraph 
10.4 applies (or some other paragraphs which do not apply either).
I am therefore satisfied that there was no breach of contract by Ryanair, and therefore no 
remedy was available to Mr D either under section 75 or under the chargeback scheme. The 
flights were available to Mr D to use, and Ryanair was under no obligation to refund him. The 
only reason why he did not fly was because his MRI scan was due to take place on the 
same date.
I could stop here, but for completeness I will add that I agree with M&S that section 75 does 
not even apply to Mr Ds purchase. That is because his credit card payment was not made 
directly to Ryanair, but via Opodo. I realise that may seem to Mr D to be only a technicality, 
and that this may seem to him to be unfair. But I dont think it is unfair, for three reasons. 
Firstly, M&S has done nothing wrong, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me 
to hold M&S responsible for something someone else did in the absence of a law making it 
responsible. Secondly, because Ryanair offered to let Mr D reschedule his flight free of 
charge (not under paragraph 10.4 but under its delayed flights policy). Thirdly, as Ive said, 
I have found that there was no misconduct by Ryanair, so whether M&S was liable for 
anything Ryanair did is a moot point.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman