DRN-2868456
The complaint
Mr S complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him irresponsibly.
 
What happened
 Using information from Evergreen, here is a brief loan table of the three approved loans. 
Loan No: Date Taken Date Repaid Monthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountQuite even monthly 
Repayments
(rounded)
1 12/08/2019 22/11/2019 4 £400.00 £144
2 25/11/2019 07/05/2020 6 £750.00 £219
3 11/05/2020 31/07/2020 2 £400.00 £256
At first, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Evergreen 
needed to do anything more. It was reviewed and after that review, the adjudicator 
reconsidered the evidence. He thought that the credit records Evergreen held about Mr S 
from the beginning of the lending relationship was enough for it to have realised that it ought 
not to have lent to Mr S. So, he thought that Evergreen should put things right for Mr S from 
loan 1. 
Evergreen disagreed and made some points:
Evergreens checks were proportionate;
at the earlier stages in a lending relationship the lending decisions were automated;
customers require quick and efficient service;
it would be wholly impractical and unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review 
every line of a credit file for every loan.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not consider that this applies to
Mr S circumstances as he took three loans which is not enough to create a pattern. 
Evergreen was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make payments on
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
CONC does not stipulate that any potential lender must carry out a credit search with a
credit reference agency (CRA). The requirement is to carry out a creditworthiness
assessment and the emphasis is that its from the borrowers perspective, not a risk
assessment from the lenders perspective. And where a lender has obtained detailed
information about the applicants credit history, then it is envisaged that this information
would form part of that creditworthiness assessment.
In Mr S situation, Evergreen has sent to us the credit searches it carried out which are clear, 
easy to read, detailed and done before each loan (three loans in all). These CRA documents 
Evergreen has sent to us all bear dates which coincide with the loan application dates and 
are contemporaneous documents. I do not agree that Evergreen was not expected to review 
every line. These documents are easy to search for specific details and/or are not difficult to 
review. What would not be appropriate is to obtain them and ignore the contents.
Evergreens argument is that the early loans for a customer are done by way of a procedure
which is automated and there is no human involvement. Adding that into my review of this
complaint, bearing in mind the basis of it (irresponsible lending), I think that Mr S CRAinformation was relevant and important information. So, it being reviewed was a necessary 
part of the creditworthiness assessment as Evergreen were in possession of it.
However, going through the Evergreen CRA documents then I conclude that Mr S had many
loans, of varying types, and the high cost short term ones he seemed to take sequentially. 
Analysing the CRA for credit commitments Mr S had on 12 August 2018, when he applied 
for loan 1, I come to a similar conclusion to our adjudicator. Despite showing many open 
STL or AAI (Advance against income), two other open regular unsecured loans, plus a whole 
series of recently closed AAIs, Evergreen lent to Mr S. And his bank statements we have 
show payments to the outstanding AAIs which dovetails with the credit file results document. 
I mention that I have reviewed his bank statements to further verify Mr S payments out, and 
not because I think that Evergreen ought to have been looking at his bank statements before 
lending. I have checked that the credit search result loans still needing payment coincide 
with the payments I can see leaving his bank account. 
Mr S had high costs to pay to creditors each month, and it, plus his normal expenditure, 
demonstrates that he was not likely to afford it and/or was in a position where he seemed to 
take loans regularly which would have led a responsible lender to recognise that he was not 
managing his finances. 
Evergreen has maintained that drilling into the detail on the CRA information was not 
practical or realistic. But the FRL it sent to Mr S when he complained says the opposite: it 
relies on having done that to justify increasing Mr S expenditure figures. It explained: 
When assessing each individual application we perform a credit check through the 
credit reference agency [name of CRA here]. The results of this credit check helped 
to satisfy us that you would be able to sustainably meet the repayments due on the 
loans you were requesting.
An unusual feature of Mr S records with Evergreen is that the records I have been sent 
show that Mr S made multiple applications. In the FRL Evergreen refers to this and says: 
We undertake affordability assessments on each individual application submitted to us 
online. I can see from your historic applications between August 2019 - September 2020, 
you submitted a total of Forty-four applications. We approved your applications only when 
they met our internal lending policy and criteria for affordability.
The multiple application records add to the overall picture Evergreen had of a customer 
applying multiple times, and occasionally having a loan approved. Earlier in this decision Ive 
made it clear that Evergreen had a rich seam of information to provide it with Mr S true 
financial position. In the circumstances of Mr S complaint including the information 
Evergreen had about him, I uphold Mr S complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Evergreen should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it never lent to Mr S as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had donethat, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Evergreens liability in this case for what Im satisfied it
has done wrong and should put right. 
Evergreen shouldnt have given Mr S loans one to three.
A) Evergreen should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything Evergreen have already refunded.
B) Evergreen should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Evergreen should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D) Evergreen should remove any adverse payment information Evergreen has recorded on 
Mr S credit file in relation to loans one to three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Evergreen has deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct that Evergreen Finance London 
Limited does as I have outline above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman