DRN-1464573
Complaint
Mr E says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
him with unaffordable credit.                
Background
This complaint is about one running account credit facility and twenty-seven high-cost short 
term credit instalment loans that Sunny provided to Mr E between May 2014 and November 
2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with any further credit on the running account facility after the sixth drawdown or instalment 
loans 6 to 27. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr E, I think that Sunny should reasonably have seen that Mr E was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the respective times it provided Mr E with his seventh drawdown on 
the running account facility and instalment loan 6. 
I say this because by this stage, it ought to have been apparent to Sunny that Mr Es use of 
his running account facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing 
the balance within a reasonable period of time. And it also ought to have been apparent from 
his repayment history, which Sunny ought to have been monitoring that Mr E may well have 
been relying on the facility and borrowing further to make his payments. 
I accept that there was a break in borrowing between the running account credit being fully 
repaid and instalment loan 1 being taken. But by instalment loan 6 Mr E was once again 
displaying a pattern consistent with someone who may have been in financial difficulty rather 
than to cover a short-term need.
Sunny continued lending to Mr E even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr E had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr E paid on the running account credit from the 
seventh drawdown on 15 September 2014 onwards and instalment loans 6 to 27;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded about instalment 
loans 6 to 27 is adverse. This means that all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mr Es credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Es complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr E compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman