DRN-3773225
The complaint
Mrs M and X complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, trading as bank of 
Scotland (Lloyds) for declining their claim for trace and access investigations into water 
damage, and for issues in customer service through that claim. They want Lloyds to pay for 
investigations into the source of water damage to their home. 
What happened
For the purposes of this decision I will refer only to Mrs M, as she has been the party 
handling this matter. 
Mrs M lives in a recently built property and held buildings insurance with Lloyds.
Within her insurance she had cover for trace and access. 
In late 2021, Mrs M noted that there was water damage developing at the threshold of her 
bedroom and the en-suite bathroom. Two tiles on the bathroom side of the door had lifted, 
and on the bedroom side there was a dark area developing. 
She contacted Lloyds and submitted a claim. She paid her policy excess. 
Lloyds appointed an agent to attend Mrs Ms home and look at the damage. The agent 
pulled back the carpet and found an area of dark staining underneath. The carpet showed 
some signs of damage.
The assessor was not able to identify the source of the water, or to confirm that there was a 
leak. He advised Mrs M to monitor the area and get back in touch if it got worse. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this and contacted Lloyds. Lloyds advised her that there was no 
evidence of an insured event having happened. 
Mrs M appointed her own plumber. They inspected the area and prepared a report. The 
report stated that there was evidence of water damage, indicative of a leak. The plumber 
advised that she should check the seal of the shower cubicle door, and replace it if 
necessary. If this did not resolve the issue, he would be happy to undertake trace and 
access investigations, if authorised to do so by Lloyds. 
Mrs M provided this report to Lloyds. 
Lloyds confirmed that it did not consider that there had been an insured event, and asked 
that Mrs M carry out independent investigations, and provide these to Lloyds if she wanted it 
to review its decision.
Mrs M complained to Lloyds. She felt that the process had been unhelpful, and she had 
encountered rudeness from an agent when she called Lloyds. She also felt that the decision 
of Lloyds not to carry out trace and access works was unfair as there was something 
causing the damage to develop. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs M. It accepted that its agent had been unprofessional during her 
call and offered £100 compensation to reflect this. Lloyds declined the remainder of Mrs Ms 
complaint and maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms frustration in this matter. I can see how it may seem circular for Lloyds 
to require her to prove where the leak is coming from before it will authorise its trace and 
access under the policy. 
I can also see why she had found the explanations and service inadequate during her 
interactions with Lloyds. 
Overall, however, I agree with my colleagues view and do not uphold the complaint. 
To look first at the customer service failings, there is no dispute that an agent of Lloyds was 
impatient and unprofessional when handling a call from Mrs M, and that Mrs M found the 
assessors manner and explanations to be rude. 
I accept her account and I think it is right for Lloyds to have made an offer of compensation 
to Mrs M to reflect this. I think £100 is an appropriate sum to reflect the additional upset and 
frustration that this rudeness caused Mrs M and I think it is in line with other awards we 
would make in similar circumstances. 
In respect of the main thrust of the complaint, that Lloyds has declined to authorise trace and 
access investigations, this is because Lloyds is not yet satisfied that there has been a leak, 
and that this has caused the damage. 
The policy covers specific events and these include escapes of water from the plumbing 
system. The policy rules out, however, damage that has occurred gradually from, for 
example, spills or condensation. It is incumbent on the policy holder to demonstrate that 
there has been an insured event, before the cover takes effect and works to put right the 
damage.
In this instance, Lloyds surveyor could not identify that a leak was taking place and that a 
leak from the plumbing system was causing the damage. In their view there may be other 
causes of the damage, which were not covered by insurance, and so the policy holder first 
needed to demonstrate that other causes had been ruled out. 
When Mrs M obtained her own report, this advised that she should check the shower door 
seals to rule out water escaping from the shower cubicle. This sort of damage would not be 
covered as it is not a leak but would be repeated spills and damage developing gradually. If 
that possibility was ruled out and the water continued to appear, then the plumber was of the 
view that there was a leak operating. 
I cannot see that Mrs M has taken the advice from her plumber to check the door seals and 
to rule out that option, but it is reasonable for Lloyds to expect that she does so before it 
agrees that a leak is likely to exist. 
If Mrs M has taken all professional advice to investigate other possible causes and is unable 
to identify the source of the water, then it would likely be reasonable - at that stage - to ask 
Lloyds to use the trace and access cover. I therefore think that this complaint is premature, until the recommended investigations have been carried out. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I think that if Mrs M takes the action recommended by her 
plumber, and the water presence continues, Lloyds ought to then give her specific advice 
about other possible causes of the water, so that she may rule out those causes. If Lloyds is 
unable to do so, I would expect that Lloyds then accept that a leak is the most likely cause of 
the continuing damage.  
Mrs M remains able to make any further complaint about Lloyds if she is not satisfied with 
the way it responds to her further evidence, or her further enquiries. 
Consequently, whilst I understand Mrs Ms upset, I do not uphold her complaint, and I do not 
ask Lloyds bank general Insurance Limited to do anything further in respect of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman