DRN-4001483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited regarding the 
price it said it would charge for their renewing policy, the premium had increased by nearly 
40% from the year before.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss policy was due to renew in November 2022. Renewal documents were 
presented to Mr and Mrs S and they noted the premium had increased from that charged the 
year before. Last years premium of less than £300 had increased to around £400. They 
called Aviva to discuss the increase, they wanted to know why it had increased so much and 
if it could be amended. They werent happy with the answer Aviva gave and eventually 
cancelled the cover, taking out a new policy elsewhere.
Aviva told Mr and Mrs S that the policy had increased for a variety of reasons, but it couldnt 
be specific. It did offer a reduction, but its best price was still over a hundred pounds more 
than what theyd paid the year before. In two final response letters Aviva explained and 
confirmed that the price for each years cover is based on current risk data available at the 
time, and it cant reasonably divulge the data to Mr and Mrs S that was relevant to their 
renewal. It noted that they had three cars in total insured with it and explained that two are 
on a different policy  so are subject to different ratings. When Mr and Mrs S remained 
unhappy, they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Aviva had answered Mr and Mrs Ss concerns as far as it was 
reasonably able and that it had acted fairly when pricing the cover. So he wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S felt the increase from the year before was just too much to be considered fair. 
Their complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise it was upsetting for Mr and Mrs S to see the cost of cover for the renewing policy. 
I understand that it presented a significant increase on the price of cover for the year before. 
However, Im not persuaded Aviva did anything wrong.
Each year of cover is a new contract. This means that the insurer can change the details 
from the year before  and a renewing policyholder has the opportunity to accept that 
renewal offer or, if it doesnt suit them for some reason, they can choose to not renew.
No insurer is bound to offer cover at renewal for the same price as the year before, not even 
within particular parameters of that charged the year before eg within a certain percentage. 
And this service doesnt get involved, as such, in determining whether a specific figure, or 
change in the price of cover is, in itself fair. That is because how an insurer prices its cover is 
a matter of commercial judgement. 
How an insurer prices cover is also subject to commercially sensitive information. That is 
because each insurer will view a number of factors or risks when setting its price for cover. 
The relevant factors, and how the insurer perceives the risks presented by each will change 
between insurers and even sometimes amongst products offered within an insurers group of 
business. And insurers constantly review the risks that they apply  which is why there can 
sometimes be significant changes between one renewal and the next, even if, from the 
policyholders perspective, nothing has changed for them.
I understand that here, whilst Mr and Mrs Ss renewal price for cover was significantly 
increased from the price for cover charged the year before, their situation had not changed. 
However, Aviva has explained to us that its perception of certain risks had changed. Which 
meant that when their policy was priced at renewal, the cost it was charging for cover had 
increased significantly from the year before. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S think that 
increase was just too much  that it cant be justified. But I have seen Avivas price 
calculation and I can see that changes have occurred which have caused the price to 
increase. Im satisfied that these are prices Aviva would have applied to others presenting 
similar risk characteristics. In that sense the price Aviva has charged, even noting its 
increase from the year before, is fair. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S would like something more specific from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Something more like an assessment of whether the percentage 
increase is fair i.e. can Aviva fairly increase the price for cover at renewal by that much. But 
that is not something I can comment on. As Ive explained above each year is a new contract 
of insurance and changes, including to the price, can be made. A policyholder is free to 
consider that offer of renewal and accept or decline it. And this service doesnt get involved 
in issues that are the subject of commercial judgement for insurers  such as how much to 
charge for cover. Here Im satisfied that things changed for Aviva after the previous renewal 
which meant that when the next renewal offer was created it was subject to a significantly 
increased premium. Overall Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably. 
      
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman