DRN-2780647
The complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) lent 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out loans with MoneyBoat as follows: 
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
114/9/2017 22/12/2017 4 £300 £107.26
27/5/2018 28/8/2018 4 £400 £148.76
329/10/2018 8/1/2019 4 £500 £149.68
When Mr M complained to MoneyBoat, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong, so he 
brought his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators investigated.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided any of the loans to Mr M given 
that the checks MoneyBoat did showed that Mr M was already having problems managing 
his money when he applied for loan 1. Our adjudicator felt that in these circumstances, 
MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr M would be able to sustainably repay 
this loan or any further loans. Our adjudicator set out the steps he said MoneyBoat should 
take to put things right for Mr M. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said it did proportionate checks 
and that whilst we might say it should've looked at all the information it had, it was 
impractical for it to review every line of a credit file. MoneyBoat told us that the early stages 
of lending were automated.
So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to provide loan 1, MoneyBoat asked Mr M to provide details of his income 
and to tell MoneyBoat what he normally spent each month. It took steps to check what hed 
said about his employment and take home pay. MoneyBoat also carried out credit checks. It 
boosted his expenses figure to allow an extra safety margin when assessing what Mr M 
could afford to repay. After doing all this, looking at what MoneyBoat knew about Mr Ms 
income and expenditure, Mr M appeared to still have around £762 of disposable income. 
But I think MoneyBoat could see that information looked to be at odds with the information 
shown on its credit checks that MoneyBoat sent to us. When he applied for loan 1, 
MoneyBoat gathered information showing that Mr M had a total of 54 accounts  7 of those 
had been taken out within the previous 6 months  and 17 were active when he applied for 
this loan.
I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could see that Mr M had been relying significantly on 
short term loans and other high cost credit for some time. And MoneyBoat was aware from 
its credit check that Mr M was already paying for borrowing from multiple other short-term 
lenders and using high cost credit to help him manage his finances when he asked to borrow this loan from MoneyBoat. I can see that it wouldve been apparent from looking at 
MoneyBoats credit check that Mr M was over the limit on at least four of his credit cards and 
that he had mostly used his available credit on other credit cards. 
Even allowing for the fact that MoneyBoat had boosted his likely monthly spending, the 
figure it relied on still fell a long way short of the amount Mr M would have to spend to cover 
his declared outgoings when the information shown on MoneyBoats credit checks was 
properly factored into that calculation. And, as our adjudicator mentioned, the monthly 
repayments Mr M owed to creditors was now a significant amount of his income  which 
shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to the reality of his financial situation. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide short term financial help in the event of 
temporary money problems. So I think the information MoneyBoat had gathered about 
Mr Ms credit history shouldve made MoneyBoat realise that the indications were that Mr M 
was having serious problems managing his money. 
Ive carefully considered what MoneyBoat has said about this. I dont think I need to 
comment on whether its checks were proportionate as that point doesnt affect the outcome. 
I say this because MoneyBoat had information from the checks it did, showing the extent of 
Mr Ms existing indebtedness, including other short term borrowing, and it could see the 
signs of someone in evident financial difficulty. This should reasonably have led MoneyBoat 
to the conclusion that what Mr M said about his financial situation was highly inaccurate and 
that it was likely he was facing serious problems managing his money.
So I dont think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to conclude that it was likely that Mr M 
would be able to repay loan 1. I also think it was fair for our adjudicator to treat all the loans 
as part of the same loan chain. I dont think the gaps between the loans were long enough 
for MoneyBoat reasonably to think that Mr Ms financial situation had improved. So I agree 
with our adjudicator that MoneyBoat had no reason to think that after he paid loan 1, any 
further loans were likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr M. Paying loan repayments on 
time  or early  doesnt necessarily mean that those payments were made in a sustainable 
way. 
The fact that MoneyBoat declined a number of other loan applications made by Mr M doesn't 
mean that the loans it did provide were affordable and fairly loaned to him. 
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think MoneyBoat shouldve granted any of these loans 
to Mr M.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
For loans 1, 2 and 3, MoneyBoat should do the following: 
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on the loans and treat 
repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal 
loan amounts - not including anything it has already refunded.  
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D. Remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to these 
loans.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman