DRN-3765555
The complaint
Miss S complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handing of her car 
repair claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Miss Ss car was damaged AA had it repaired by their approved repairers (AAs 
garage). Miss S said that it took their garage too long to repair her car, they didnt give her a 
suitable courtesy car at first, and she was out of pocket on fuel expenses. AA apologised 
and offered her compensation of £300 to reflect her stress and inconvenience. Miss S didnt 
think this was enough and she wanted them to reimburse her fuel costs too. 
The investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought that AA had acted fairly and that 
their compensation offer was reasonable. Miss S didnt agree, and Ive been asked to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that AA s garage took too long to repair her car. This took three attempts 
because of substandard work, and AAs garage had her car for about six weeks overall. 
During that time Miss S had difficulty getting in touch with them and had to chase them for 
information. AA accepted that and apologised for it, so I wont go into any more detail about 
that.  
While her car was being repaired AA gave her a courtesy car, as her policy required. Miss S 
said theyd agreed in advance to give her an automatic car rather than a manual, but when 
she first took her car to the garage, they didnt have one available. They offered her an 
electric automatic one, but she declined it as unsuitable as she couldnt charge it at home. 
AA did then come up with an automatic car and she kept it until she got her own car back 
repaired. 
The courtesy car AA gave her was a petrol car, but her own car was a diesel car. She said 
that she had a fuel card from her employer which subsided her fuel use to about £20 a week, 
but it only applied to diesel fuel. She said that because she couldnt use her diesel fuel card 
with the courtesy car, she lost out on several weeks of her employer subsidy. She thought 
that AAs compensation wasnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience she had in 
dealing with the claim, and that AA should also reimburse her at least the fuel subsidy she 
missed by having a petrol courtesy car. 
 
Ive looked at Miss Ss policy and it says:
 
a standard courtesy car will be supplied during the period of the repairs. A standard 
courtesy car is a category A vehicle, normally a small 3 door, 1 litre hatchback car.
Its a common clause in car insurance polices and we dont think it unreasonable for an 
insurer to provide a standard car. It isnt a like for like car and an insured cant choose what 
type of car they get.
 
AA said they complied with their policy requirements in giving Miss S the courtesy car and 
werent responsible for any personal fuel cost differential. They said theyd been flexible in 
arranging for her to have the type of car she had asked for at the start, an automatic rather 
than a manual, but she hadnt asked them for a diesel car. They said theyd nevertheless  
accommodated her choice of type of car and, despite forgetting that at first, they did 
promptly give her an automatic car that met her needs. They said that any fuel expenses 
related to her having the courtesy car rather than her own car were an uninsured loss and 
they werent responsible for those. 
Miss S said she hadnt asked them for a diesel car at first because she hadnt expected the 
repairs to take as long as they did. I think thats entirely reasonable and I can see it wouldnt 
have been her focus at the time.  The investigator asked Miss S why , once she knew the 
repairs would take longer, she didnt ask AA for a diesel car as that would have mitigated the 
loss she said she experienced by missing out on her employers diesel fuel subsidy issue.
Miss S said she wasnt sure if she had asked AA for a diesel car at that stage, but that she 
had discussed her increased fuel cost issue with an adviser at AA. But she said it was very 
difficult to get them to do anything and her focus was the repairs themselves. She was 
unhappy that AA couldnt give us all the call recordings which supported what she claimed. 
However, from the call recordings we do have, I think its clear that Miss S did talk to AA 
about her fuel costs being higher with the courtesy car, even if she didnt ask them 
specifically for a diesel courtesy car. But I dont think it matters if Miss S didnt ask for a 
diesel car, at any stage. And even if she had asked for one and AA couldnt provide one, I 
dont think that matters either. Thats because AA were not under any obligation to give her 
any type of car other than the type they had available that met the policy terms, and theyve 
shown that they did that. 
Nor were AA obliged under the policy to compensate for anything else related to the type of 
courtesy car they gave her. There can be other reasons why a courtesy cars fuel costs or 
other related costs are perhaps different or higher from those of the consumers own car. But 
AA arent responsible under the policy for those. And so I dont think they are required to 
reimburse Miss Ss employer fuel subsidy difference.   
As regards distress and inconvenience, we think that there will always be some element of 
that for a consumer with a car repair claim. However I can see that Miss S found the whole 
situation very frustrating and I agree that AAs actions here caused her more distress and 
inconvenience than was necessary. But I think that £300 in compensation adequately 
reflects that level of inconvenience, and so I think its reasonable and I dont require AA to 
pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman