DRN-2285898
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt use an original equipment manufacturer 
(OEM) product when he made a claim to replace a damaged windscreen under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was just over a year old when he bought a car insurance policy with AXA. Mr S 
said he studied the policy wording  in particular in relation to windscreen cover  as hed 
previously experienced an issue with another car of the same make. 
AXAs policy wording says:
We may choose to repair your car with parts that may not have been made by its 
manufacturer but are of a similar standard.
Mr S said he interpreted the policy wording to mean that AXA would replace any broken 
glass with an OEM product, but, under certain circumstances they may choose to use a non 
OEM glass. He believed the wording allowed AXA flexibility in circumstances where an OEM 
wasnt available. And so on this basis, Mr S said he was happy to buy the policy. 
Mr Ss car windscreen developed a crack and so he made a claim under his policy. The 
contractor told Mr S a non OEM product would be used as a replacement. Mr S complained 
to AXA. It said his request for an OEM replacement product was declined and relied on the 
above term. 
Mr S complained to AXA, but in March 2020 it said its decision was correct. So Mr S asked 
us to look at his complaint. He said AXA mis-sold the policy to him as the wording in the 
policy doesnt reflect how they deal with claims. Mr S said he wouldnt have taken out the 
policy if AXA had been clearer in their sales literature about how they operate. He said AXA 
operates on the basis it does not provide OEM replacement products for repairs.
In August 2020 Mr S told us he had the windscreen replaced by AXAs contractor but they 
couldnt calibrate the system. Mr S has raised a separate complaint about this and so it 
doesnt form part of my decision. 
Mr S provided an email from the manufacturer dealership which said any issues with the 
glass wouldnt be covered under his warranty and for Mr S to request that AXA replace it 
with an OEM product. 
AXA accepted that it incorrectly told Mr S that the replacement wouldnt affect his warranty. 
But it said when it and its contractors use non OEM glass on the vehicle, they offer a lifetime 
guaranteed warranty on the workmanship that has been completed on the vehicle. This 
means, should Mr S experience any issues specifically with the windscreen, this can be 
claimed under AXA/Contractor warranty. 
Our investigator thought AXAs policy wording was clear. And while AXA had incorrectly told 
Mr S the non OEM replacement wouldnt affect his warranty, she thought it was reasonable 
that AXA offered a lifetime warranty on the replacement works. 
Mr S didnt agree. He says he only agreed to the fitting of the windscreen on the condition it 
didnt affect his warranty with the manufacturer. As the information AXA gave him was 
incorrect, AXA misled him.
Mr S says the manufacturer has confirmed that the OEM product isnt of a similar quality 
regardless of what AXA and its contractor says. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the wording under AXAs policy allows it the choice to use parts that arent made by 
the manufacturer, but of a similar standard. I understand Mr S interpreted the wording to 
mean it might only do so if the EOM product wasnt available as an example, but I dont think 
thats what AXAs policy says. 
I agree with Mr S that AXA misled him into believing that his warranty wouldnt be affected 
by having the windscreen replaced with a non OEM product. Mr S says that he wouldnt 
have agreed to the replacement under the policy if AXA had provided him with the correct 
information. Hes provided an email from the manufacturer which says that any fault relating 
to the (wind)screen would be void. 
However, as AXAs provided a lifetime guaranteed warranty on the workmanship that has 
been completed on Mr Ss car, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome. And I think AXA 
replaced Mr Ss windscreen in line with the policy terms.
I understand Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think AXA needs to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman