DRN-2235605
The complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated her unfairly during a period of financially 
difficultly. She specifically says that a product switch was declined due to arrears. 
What happened
Ms F holds a residential mortgage with Barclays. Since 2014 her account has fallen into 
arrears on a few occasions.
In May 2019 a field agent visit took place. Ms F explained that in 2016 she suffered with her 
mental health and was unable to work for six months. She said her circumstances had since 
improved and she had returned to full time work. Ms F was still waiting for a medical 
diagnosis, so Barclays treated this as a vulnerable consumer case.
Various concessions were considered to help Ms F bring her account back up to date - such 
as a payment arrangement and a product switch. But these were declined because her 
circumstances meant she didnt meet Barclays criteria. 
On 2 October 2019 Barclays wrote to Ms F to offer a term extension with a plan to clear the 
arrears. She didnt go ahead with this option and instead cleared the arrears in full later that 
month. As a result, she was able to go ahead with a product switch sooner after.
Ms F complained to Barclays about unfair treatment during a period of financial difficulty and 
subsequently brought her complaint to our service to consider further.  
An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold this complaint. He said the latter rate 
switch application was for a lower rate, so Ms F hasnt lost out by the initial application being 
declined. Ms F accepted the investigators response on this point, but she didnt feel he had 
fully considered Barclays treatment to her as a vulnerable customer, more specifically she 
said the customer support team wrongly suggested a product switch that was always going 
to be declined due to arrears. 
Ms F asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the submissions from both parties, including those presented by Ms F in 
response to our investigators assessment. 
When Barclays became aware of Ms Fs circumstances In May 2019, it took that information 
into account. Barclays notes show Ms F told the field agent that her health had completely 
recovered since 2016 and she was no longer on medication. She had since returned to work 
full time. The field agent did not consider her to be in a vulnerable position, but Barclays 
chose to still treat this as a vulnerable consumer case. 
Barclays has a special department that deals with customers who are vulnerable in some 
respect, so it was the right thing to do for that department to liaise with Ms F.
In light of Ms Fs circumstances, Barclays considered various forbearance options to help 
her bring her account up to date  in a way that was affordable for Ms F.  
I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to refuse the payment arrangement. I say this 
because Ms Fs affordability assessment showed she had less than £100 surplus each 
month. So, there was a risk her account would fall back into arrears. 
Ms F feels strongly about how she was treated. In particular she says she was advised to 
apply for a product switch in July 2019, even though she was in arrears, so the application 
was never going to be accepted.
The customer support team referred Ms F to the lending department to consider a rate 
switch as a possible option, but that doesnt mean approval was guaranteed. Shed still need 
to go through the usual rate-switch process. 
Barclays says the product switch couldnt take place because Ms Fs account was more than 
two months in arrears and there was no arrangement in place to repay the arrears. 
Lenders should treat borrowers in arrears fairly and that means tailoring an approach to the 
individual borrower. So, if a rate switch would make the payments affordable for the 
customer, it might be suitable for a switch to go ahead. But nevertheless, whilst Ms Fs initial 
rate switch was declined, she hasnt lost out as a result. I say this because she subsequently 
secured a lower rate in September 2019, resulting in even lower monthly payments. 
Even though the rate switch didnt go ahead in July 2019, Barclays did continue to consider 
other suitable options - such as extending the term of Ms Fs mortgage to help reduce her 
monthly payments with an arrangement to clear her arrears. It wrote to Ms F with the 
proposal on 2 October 2019. Ive seen nothing that suggests Ms F responded to the letter. 
Ms F cleared the arrears in full later that month and shortly after a rate switch was accepted.  
Ms F accepts that the successful rate switch application was to her advantage. But she says 
she had to clear the arrears in full to be accepted and did this because of the pre-litigation 
letters Barclays started sending. 
Because Ms F didnt respond to Barclays proposal in early October, it wasnt able to agree a 
way forward. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to send Ms F a pre-litigation 
letter later that month. I say this because the account had been in arrears for some time and 
Barclays was no closer to being able to agree a way of helping Ms F to reduce her arrears  
despite its proposal. 
Ive considered everything Ms F has said about being treated unfairly as a vulnerable 
customer. For the reasons Ive explained, I think Barclays took Ms Fs circumstances into 
account and took reasonable steps to establish a suitable concession. For those reasons I 
dont uphold this complaint and I make no order or award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman