DRN-3916336
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
turned down a claim he made on his legal expenses insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr D took out home and lifestyle insurance with NFU; the policy start date was 10 August 
2022. The following month he claimed on his policy as hed been dismissed from his job and 
wanted to pursue an Employment Tribunal claim. NFU said the incident date relating to this 
was 21 July 2022 and hed been dismissed on 8 August 2022. As that was before the policy 
start date it said his claim wasnt covered. 
Our investigator thought NFU had turned down the claim in line with the policy terms and 
acted fairly in doing so. Mr D didnt agree. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say NFU has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. This does cover employment 
disputes but only where the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of 
cover. Date of occurrence is defined in the policy as the date of the event which leads to a 
claim. Period of cover is as stated on your schedule. In this case that was from 
10 August 2022 until 10 August 2023. 
Legal expenses insurance policies like the one Mr D took out are meant to cover uncertain 
risks, not inevitable or existing events.  So its not unusual or unfair they would contain terms 
like this. And Mr D told NFU the dispute with his employer started on 21 July 2022. That 
appears to be the event which gave rise to his subsequent claim and was prior to the policy 
start date. Even if the event giving rise to his claim was his dismissal that also took place 
before he took the policy out. So I think NFU are right to say his claim isnt one his policy 
covers and I think they acted fairly in turning this down. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman
