DRN-3087031
The complaint
Mr K complains that RAC Financial Services Limited (RAC) mishandled his car breakdown 
policy.
Where I refer to RAC, I include employees and others insofar as I hold RAC responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr K took out RAC cover. He paid using his credit card. RAC automatically 
renewed the cover in July  2018, 2019 and 2020. Mr K then cancelled the cover. He got a 
refund of the 2020 payment from his credit card. 
Mr K complained that RAC should refund the payments for 2018 and 2019, with interest. By 
a final response dated 12 September 2020, RAC declined to make any refund unless Mr K 
provided evidence that hed had similar cover with another provider. Mr K addressed his 
complaint to us on 9 March 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
RAC acted unreasonably.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He received welcome letters in 2017.
He cancelled the cover in 2018.
RAC didnt send him - and he didnt receive - any further emails from RAC until he 
complained in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K received RACs welcome pack dated 30 July 2017. The policy schedule included the 
following:
Automatic yearly renewal by credit card
So I accept that that RAC would automatically renew the policy and take payment from the 
credit card.
RAC has shown us that it generated renewal documents on 2 July 2018. And it had Mr Ks 
correct email address. So  notwithstanding Mr Ks screenshot showing that he didnt 
receive any such email  I find it more likely than not that RAC is correct that it sent Mr K  
the renewal documents by email.
Mr K has said that he cancelled the policy in 2018. But he hasnt given enough detail of how 
and when he contacted RAC. So I find that he is mistaken.
RAC has shown us that it generated renewal documents on 11 July 2019. And it had Mr Ks 
correct email address. So  notwithstanding Mr Ks screenshot showing that he didnt 
receive any such email  I find it more likely than not that RAC is correct that it sent him an 
email saying that the renewal documents were available in his online RAC account.
RAC has shown us that it generated renewal documents on 2 July 2020. And it had Mr Ks 
correct email address. So  notwithstanding Mr Ks screenshot showing that he didnt 
receive any such email   I find it more likely than not that RAC is correct that it sent him an 
email saying that the renewal documents were available in his online RAC account.
So I dont consider that RAC did anything wrong by renewing the policy and taking payments 
in 2018, 2019 or 2020.
Nevertheless, I would expect RAC to consider a refund insofar as Mr K could show that he 
had similar cover with a different provider for the same period (dual cover). In its final 
response RAC offered to make such a refund if Mr K provides evidence of dual cover.
So overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RAC to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct RAC Financial Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman