DRN-3371532
The complaint
S have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc increased the renewal premium on their 
motor fleet insurance policy following a claim against them and refused to amend it, 
despite it being clear their driver was not at fault in the incident giving rise to the claim.
What happened
One of Ss vehicles was involved in an incident with a third party vehicle in January 
2018. The third party and his passengers all made claims against S with the help of a 
solicitor. AXA was notified of these at the end of February 2018. AXA investigated the 
claims.
Eventually, after a period of no contact from the third parties solicitor, AXA closed the 
claims and only a small payment for a police report was recorded against them.
S renewed their policy in 2018 and their premium went up by 82% to £17,797.52, plus 
IPT. They complained to AXA about the way the claim was handled and the impact it had 
had on their premium. AXA issued a final response to S in which it said it wasnt 
upholding their complaint. It said at the point of the final response the claim remained 
open, but would be closed if it didnt hear from the third parties solicitor by 14 January 
2020. AXA didnt hear from the third parties solicitor and the claim was eventually closed 
at the end of January 2020. S werent happy with AXAs response and asked us to 
consider their complaint.
One of our investigators considered Ss complaint. He said AXA had handled the claims 
against S in a reasonable way and had not caused any unnecessary delays. However, he 
said AXA should recalculate Ss renewal premium for 2018 on the basis the claim from 
January 2018 had been withdrawn with no payment made. He felt this was fair in the 
circumstances.
AXA didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the change in the status 
of the claim would have been factored into subsequent renewals, but not the renewal in 
2018. And it is not willing to alter its position, as the policy does not have a no claims 
discount (NCD) like a personal lines product. AXA has also told us Ss policy was 
cancelled in June 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022, in which I set out what Id 
provisionally decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that AXA handled the claims against S in a reasonable way 
and didnt cause any unnecessary delays. This is because Ive reviewed the system notes 
AXA has provided and they show its claims staff were proactive and the delays were 
mainly due to the third parties solicitors and the police not providing the information they 
wanted.
I also agree with our investigator that it is fair and reasonable for AXA to recalculate Ss 
renewal premium for renewal in 2018 to reflect the fact that the claims made against them 
in February 2018 were withdrawn with no payment made. This is because AXA calculated 
the renewal premium on the basis that a claim of over £25,000 could end up being paid, 
and it charged extra because of this. It considered this altered the risk it was being asked 
to insure. As it turned out, the claims were withdrawn and nothing was paid. This means 
the risk AXA actually ended up insuring had a different profile. And I think its fair that AXA 
should have to reflect this in what S pays. After all, if it had known at the time of renewal 
the claims were going to be withdrawn and the risk it was being asked to insure reflected 
this, it would have been quite happy to accept a lower premium. I do appreciate S has a 
commercial fleet policy and there is no NCD, but I have to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And I dont see how it can be fair for AXA to retain a 
premium it didnt really ever need to insure the risk S presented to them at renewal in 
2018.
Weve asked AXA to provide a detailed calculation for the renewal premium in 2018. But, 
its said it cant provide this as the underwriter who worked it out has left. I dont find this 
very compelling, as I would have thought AXAs systems are sophisticated enough to see 
how the underwriter worked out the premium and how it was broken down. I have to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in light of this lack of evidence. And I have nothing to 
go on other than the renewal premium for the previous renewal, which was £10,935.68, 
including IPT. And the renewal premium in 2018 was £19,933.22, including IPT. AXA has 
said S defaulted on their premium instalment plan in 2018/19 and this ended up with it 
writing off £2,175. Ive got no reason to doubt this, although Id consider further evidence 
from S if they think this amount is incorrect. This means  by my calculations - S actually 
paid £17,758.22 in premium for the period 2018/19.
So, unless AXA can provide me with a detailed calculation showing what Ss renewal 
premium would have been in 2018 with the claims from February 2018 showing as 
withdrawn with no payment, I think it is fair and reasonable for AXA to refund the 
difference between what S actually paid, which I think was £17,758.22, and what it paid 
at renewal in 2017, which I think was £10,935.68. This means that  as things stand - I 
think S should receive a refund from AXA of £6,822.54.
I gave both parties until 11 March 2022 to provide further comments and evidence. 
AXA hasnt provided any further comments or evidence. S have said that in the end they 
paid the instalement theyd withheld under their premium finance plan for their policy for 
the period 2018/19. And theyve said they hope this figure will be included in the 
reimbursement they receive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA hasnt responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to alter the conclusion 
I reached in it on the fair and reasonable outcome to Ss complaint in principle. However, I 
agree with S that if they paid a further instalment under their premium finance plan for the 
period 2018/19 this should be taken into account in the amount due to them.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Ss complaint is for AXA to refund the difference between what S actually paid for their policy for the period 2018/19 and what they paid for it for the period 
2017/18. I cant quote the actual figures here, as AXA hasnt provided the further amount 
S paid as a further instalment on their payment plan for the period 2018/19. So, AXA will 
have to work out the amount due factoring this in. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ss complaint and order AXA Insurance UK Plc to refund to 
S the difference between what they actually paid for their policy for the period 2018/19 and 
what they paid for it in the period 2017/18. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman