DRN-2514369
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable 
logbook loans. He says effective affordability checks werent considered and this led to him 
being provided with unaffordable loans.  
  
Background  
L2G initially provided Mr M with a logbook loan of £800 in July 2015. This loan had an APR 
of 427% and due to be repaid in 12 payments of around £146 meaning that the total amount 
to be repaid was £1,760.00. 
A month later Mr M approached L2G for further funds. He was once again provided with a 
logbook loan and this time he was lent £1,400.00. £690.66 went towards settling the 
outstanding balance on the first loan and Mr M received £709.34 in new funds. Loan 2 had 
an APR of 387.4% and the total amount repayable of £3,920.00 was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of around £217.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and partially upheld the complaint. He 
thought that proportionate checks were carried out for loan 1 but not for loan 2. And if 
proportionate checks had been carried out for loan 2 they would have shown the repayments 
were unaffordable for Mr M. Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicator. But L2G did. As the 
parties remain in dispute over loan 2 an ombudsman was asked to review matters and 
determine whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 2. 
So to be clear this decision is only looking at whether loan 2 was fairly provided to Mr M.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M prior to 
providing him with loan. It also carried out credit checks. Mr M declared that he was earning 
around £1,500.00 a month and provided payslips and he had expenditure of £1,034.00 a 
month. This left around £450 a month to make his monthly repayment. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But its own calculation showed Mr M only just 
about had the disposable income required to make the required payments. And Mr Ms 
payslips, which were checked, showed that he only received at least £1,500.00 one month in 
three months he provided statements for. And this was as a result of overtime in the month 
loan 1 was provided. So L2G ought to have been aware that Mr M would need to be able to 
work overtime, to receive the amount needed for him to be able to make his payments. This 
coupled with Mr M having had a couple of late payment fees on loan 1 leads me to think that 
L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Ms actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr M with loan 2 were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr M
would have been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 2 was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr M would have been unable 
to sustainably repay these loans.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr M could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mr M had an 
irregular income. In my view, he was using the funds from this loan to cover the hole not 
receiving overtime was leaving in his finances. And in these circumstances, I think it was 
likely that hed need to borrow further, either form L2G or elsewhere, in order to make his 
payments.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the
repayments to loan 2 without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr M was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Mr M lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with loan 2?
As Mr M paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding the interest and charges Mr M paid as a result on loan 2;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of loan 2.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman