DRN-3761642
The complaint
S, a charity, complains that The Co-operative Bank plcs process made it possible for online 
banking to be set up in a way that was not in line with S policy. In particular, S feels that the 
bank should have put in place dual authorisation for online payments. S says the bank not 
only failed to do so but did not alert S that a dual authorisation wasnt in place for online 
payments. This in turn led to its (now) ex-treasurer, transferring £5,000 out of charitys 
account without the trustees knowledge.
S also says that the bank failed to identify the transaction as unusual to the account activity 
and query it with S. Had it done so the loss could have been prevented.  Further, even after 
the fraud was made known to the bank it did not remove from list of authorised people the 
person who illegally took the money and continued to send key correspondence to their 
address.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Briefly, in early 2020, S appointed a new treasurer and at that time completed a change of 
mandate form to add them as an authorised signatory on the account. In July 2020, 
unknown to the trustees, the treasurer made an online payment of £5,000 from S account to 
his personal account. The charity reported the fraud to the bank two days after the 
transaction and complained as above. Unfortunately, the sum couldnt be recovered.
The bank said that the complaint should be time-barred. This is because in 2008 and in 2013 
S made one or two payments above the £50 limit via telephone banking and dual authority 
wasnt available for that service. The bank said that from this it is reasonable to expect that S 
was fully aware that dual authority wasnt in place for all modes of payment, and this 
happened more than six years ago. 
In any case the bank did not accept the complaint. It said that it was the responsibility of the 
trustees to request dual authorisation for online payments. However, the bank accepted that 
it made a mistake in continuing to send correspondence to the ex-trustee even after they 
were removed from the account and paid S £100 compensation for this.
I issued a provisional decision (which forms part of this Decision), upholding the complaint. 
In summary, I said:
The fact that S made one or two payments above the £50 limit in 2008 and 2013 
doesnt mean this complaint should be time-barred. Those transactions were made 
through telephone banking and the online banking wasnt even in place at that time. It 
was introduced years later, in 2020. 
The bank says that when S requested online banking, they completed a document called 
Change of Account signatories and authorised users. The bank says that this document 
made it clear that dual authorisation isnt needed for online banking unless so requested. 
I have considered the said document but I am not persuaded that the document made it 
clear that online transaction could be carried out without dual authorisation. In my view, 
had the bank made this clear to the trustees they would have put in place the dual 
authorisation for online banking and the fraudulent transfer could have been avoided.
However, the trustees had a subsequent opportunity to rectify this issue. Six weeks prior 
to the unauthorised transaction, the treasurer made a genuine payment of £1,000 online. 
He appears to have done so without any dual authorisation. 
So even if it was not made clear to the trustees when the above document was signed 
that the treasurer could carry out online banking without dual authorisation, they could 
have realised this was the case when the treasurer transferred this £1,000. It was a 
sizeable sum to the charity.  
In my view the trustees had sufficient time since that transaction to have noticed that it 
was possible to make online transfers without dual authorisation and taken steps to 
rectify it. That didnt happen. So, there was some contributory negligence on part of S.
Taking all of the above into account, The Co-operative Bank plc should reimburse S 50% 
of their loss (i.e. £2,500), together with simple interest at 8% p.a. 
The bank accepted my provisional decision. S responded to say that they agree with my 
provisional decision. However they wanted me to tell the bank that it should alter its system 
such that for charities the dual authorisation is given as a default for all modes of payment 
and the trustees would have to opt out of it rather than request to opt in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the settlement set out in my provisional decision 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, for the reasons already given. 
I appreciate S point that the dual authorisation should be the default option unless it was 
opted out. However, whilst I can consider a complaint about an error or omission by the 
bank, it is not within my remit to tell the bank to alter its systems.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, The Co-operative Bank plc should 
pay £2,500 to S, together with simple interest at 8% p.a. Interest is payable from the date of 
the transaction to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman