DRN-3516774
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) have unfairly declined his Unoccupied 
Property insurance claim for an escape of water.
Lloyds used a number of suppliers in Mr Ms claim. But Ill only refer to them in my decision.
What happened
Mr M had Unoccupied Property insurance with Lloyds from December 2019. He said he 
decided to take out such a policy instead of his normal home insurance policy as he knew 
that his previous home insurance policy wouldnt be appropriate as he would be away from 
his house, leaving it unoccupied, for about a year. 
Mr M said that on 27 February 2021, his daughter, who checked on his property regularly, 
discovered that there had been a leak from the loft. He said a lot of water had escaped 
causing severe damaged to both the house and its contents. Mr M notified Lloyds of his 
claim the same day. 
Lloyds completed their preliminary report on the property damage on 8 March 2021. And 
referred the claim internally for further comments. A further review of the damage was 
arranged and a report issued on 16 April 2021. 
After reviewing the reports, Lloyds declined the claim and cancelled Mr Ms policy. Mr M said 
that Lloyds said that he hadnt correctly represented his circumstances at the time he first 
took out the policy in December 2019. And that when hed subsequently renewed the policy 
in December 2020, the policy wasnt going to respond to the water damage claim. Mr M 
complained to Lloyds on 17 April 2021. 
Lloyds obtained the screen report dated 30 April 2021 from a further site visit on 23 April 
2021. This report concluded that the incoming cold-water mains water supply couldnt have 
been fully isolated at the time of the incident. 
Lloyds issued their response to the complaint on 30 April 2021. They didnt uphold it. They 
said that when asked: When will the insured property become occupied? in his Statement 
of Fact when first purchasing the insurance, Mr M had stated that he would occupy the 
property after a period of nine to 12 months. They also said that hed confirmed that he 
intended to work abroad for a year, but that during his claim hed told them that hed always 
intended to stay in the property every three to four months, whilst visiting family in the UK. 
Lloyds said that the sales call wasnt recorded, so they could only base their conclusions on 
the Statement of Fact. They also said that although Mr M had received two Statements of 
Fact, they had no record of him telling them that the information was incorrect or had 
changed. They said that the policy document defined occupied as where the buildings 
have been lived in by you or any person(s) authorised by you for more than 7 consecutive 
days during the period of insurance. And that this meant that given Mr Ms plans to stay in 
the property while visiting family in the UK, the Unoccupied Property policy was 
inappropriate for his needs. They said if Mr M had told them that he intended to occupy the 
property, they wouldnt have provided him with an Unoccupied Property policy, but with a 
Holiday Home Policy. As Lloyds deemed that the policy wasnt appropriate for Mr Ms 
demands and needs, they said they were required to cancel his policy from the original 
inception date up until the end of the current term, 10 December 2021. They said theyd give 
him a short period of grace so he had time to purchase alternative insurance. But that during 
that time, the cover they would provide would be based on the Holiday Home Policy basis. 
They noted various restrictions of that policy, including that it didnt provide cover for escape 
of water claims. Lloyds also said that they would return the total premium Mr M had paid for 
the two years. This totalled £1,103.66. They said the return of the premium in respect of the 
first year was a gesture of good will on the basis that Mr M had been unable to occupy his 
property every three to four months due to coronavirus restriction. So this meant that the 
property had been unoccupied for the majority of the policy term. 
Mr M didnt accept Lloyds conclusions. He said that although they had the right to cancel his
policy under its terms, they had to give him 30 days written notice.  He said he didnt think 
hed be able to re-insure the property at such short notice. 
Lloyds offered to escalate Mr Ms complaint further. They agreed to extend the cover until 28 
May 2021, but said they would not provide cover beyond that date. They also repeated that 
the cover provided would be under the Holiday Home Policy with the restrictions theyd 
highlighted in their 30 April 2021 letter. 
Mr M asked to see a copy of the screen report. And a copy of the initial report from the 
plumber. Lloyds provided the requested documents.
On 3 June 2021 Mr M told Lloyds that he felt hed been misled by both Lloyds and his 
broker. He said his health had suffered due to the handling of his claim. He said hed 
decided not to further pursue his complaint as he didnt want to prolong the stressful 
situation. He asked Lloyds to return his premiums as soon as possible. I understand that 
Lloyds refunded the premiums the same day. 
Lloyds repeated their offer to escalate Mr Ms complaint. And he accepted their offer. He 
asked that Lloyds at the very least made a reasonable ex gratia offer.
Lloyds issued their final response to the complaint on 16 July 2021. They didnt uphold it. 
They said that after a thorough review of the file they couldnt criticise underwriters' decision. 
Mr M didnt accept the findings. He asked Lloyds to reconsider before bringing his complaint 
to this service. Lloyds declined to do so. So Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be partially upheld. She considered that 
Lloyds had fairly avoided the policy and declined the claim in line with CIDRA at renewal in 
December 2020. But she didnt think that they should have avoided the policy from 2019-
2020. She recommended that Lloyds remove the cancellation for the 2019-2020 policy year.
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigator. They considered that at inception in 2019 Mr M 
hadnt disclosed that he intended to occupy the property every three to four months. They 
said hed also indicated that the property would be unoccupied for nine to 12 months. 
Therefore they felt that theyd correctly avoided the policy from the start.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
He said hed told the broker through which hed bought the insurance that he was 
temporarily occupying the house in December 2020. Therefore he disputed Lloyds 
point that if theyd been made aware that was occupying the property in December 2020, they wouldnt have offered him the Unoccupied Property insurance policy. 
His broker had agreed to renew Unoccupied Property insurance policy for another 
year in December 2020. And that theyd noted his comments and instructions to 
renew on the basis that he was leaving the UK again and the house would be 
unoccupied.
He confirmed that he left the UK on 5 February 2021 and that his house was then 
again unoccupied and was going to remain that way for the remainder of 2021. So he 
felt hed renewed the Unoccupied Property insurance policy in good faith. 
He said the leak had occurred while the property was unoccupied. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a final decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 May 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from our investigator. I dont intend to 
uphold the complaint. I dont agree that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably when they 
avoided the policy from inception. Ill explain why. 
I first considered what Mr M told his broker at the policy inception. This is key to the whole 
complaint. Ive also reviewed the information contained in the Statement of Fact completed 
at that time. 
Mr M said that he told his broker that he was planning on returning to the UK to visit his 
family and stay in the insured property every three to four months. Lloyds said theres no 
evidence that Mr M told his broker that this would be the case at the policy inception. From 
what I understand, theres no record of the inception call as Mr Ms broker did not record it. 
Our investigator felt that Lloyds had accepted that Mr M had told his broker that hed be 
staying in the property. She said theyd said in their business file: 
Mr M informed [broker name] that he would reside in the property every 3-4 months. Mr M 
did not inform [broker name] that he intended to reside at the property for 3-4 months (long 
periods) at a time, and had he informed [broker name] of this, [broker name] would have 
confirmed staying at the property for such durations would not be appropriate for an 
unoccupied product. Lloyds subsequently told this service that theyd made a typographical 
error in the above statement. They said they had intended to say that: Mr M had NOT 
informed [broker name] that he would reside in the property every 3 - 4 months at point of 
sale.
Our investigator said that Lloyds couldnt provide information to show that Mr M didn't inform 
his broker that hed be staying in the property. She was more persuaded by the evidence 
that Mr M did disclose to his broker that he planned on returning every three to four months 
for a visit to the UK. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigator. They didnt feel it was reasonable to conclude that 
just because no recording of the inception call was available they should accept Mr Ms 
recollection of what was discussed. They said this because the 2019 Statement of Fact was 
contemporaneous written information of what was disclosed when the policy was taken out. 
They noted that it had clear questions and answers including:Is the Insured Property occupied from the inception date? No
When will the insured property become occupied? 9-12 months
So they felt that Mr M had declared that he wouldnt be occupying the property at any time in 
the next nine to 12 months.
Ive also looked at the terms of the Unoccupied Property insurance. These define occupied 
as:
Where the buildings have been lived in by you or any person(s) authorised by you for 
more than 7 consecutive days during the period of insurance.
I consider that this term is clearly written. And shows that the insurance wouldnt be 
appropriate for anyone planning on staying in the property for more than seven days at a 
time. Mr M has said that he always intended to stay in the property for more than seven days 
at a time. Therefore, based on what Mr M himself has said, I consider that the Unoccupied 
Property policy wasnt suitable for his needs. 
Without a recording of the inception call, its difficult to know exactly what was discussed. We 
have Mr Ms recollections. And we also have the Statement of Fact. 
The first page of the 2019 inception documentation, covering the period of insurance from 11 
December 2019 to 10 December 2020 stated:
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Please check this document or schedule. 
It also had the following disclosure statement:
You are reminded that this document is based on the information you have provided us and 
this information forms the basis of the insurance contract. You must notify your broker 
without delay of any incorrect information or if any amendments are required. If you do not 
do so, your insurance cover may not protect you in the event of a claim and your insurance 
may be invalidated.
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions 
we ask when you take out, make changes to, or renew your policy.
Page 5 of the document contained a declaration which stated that:
the Insured must:
A. Disclose to the Insurer every material circumstance which the Insured knows or ought to 
know. Failing that, the Insured must give the Insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries in order to reveal material 
circumstances. A matter is material if it would influence the judgement of a prudent insurer 
as to whether to accept the risk, or the terms of the insurance (including premium)
The declaration also stated that the insured must:
C. Ensure that every material representation of fact is substantially correct, and that every 
material representation of expectation or belief is made in good faith.
Mr M was required to answer a question to confirm that he had read, understood and agreed to the above declaration, which he did. 
I think these statements make it clear that the prospective insured must disclose all 
information material to the insurance. And they must confirm that they have provided 
accurate answers. They also must confirm theyve read and understood the declaration. 
The documentation contains questions on occupation of the property, including the ones that 
Lloyds have referenced earlier. There was also a confirmation, which stated:
Property is insured main house, he is working abroad for a year.
I have no way of knowing exactly what Mr M told the broker during the inception call. But I 
agree with Lloyds that the Statement of Fact should provide a good record of what was 
discussed. I say this because of the wording in the declaration, which Mr M had to confirm 
hed read and understood. 
Therefore I dont agree with our investigator that without the inception call recording, we 
should assume that Mr M did inform his broker that hed be regularly staying in the property 
for more than seven days. Im more persuaded by the information recorded in the Statement 
of Fact. And I consider that this shows that Mr M didnt expect to return to his property for 
nine-12 months, because thats what the Statement of Fact records.
Overall, I consider that Mr M didnt disclose at inception that he intended to occupy the 
property every three to four months for more than seven days. And he also said that the 
property would be unoccupied for nine to 12 months. Therefore Im satisfied that Lloyds 
correctly avoided the policy from the start.
Ive also reviewed the 2020 renewal documentation. The responses recorded are broadly 
the same as for the 2019 inception. However, the answer to the question:
How long has the property been unoccupied for? Was recorded as More than 1 year.
Mr M said that he explained to his broker exactly his set of circumstances. He said he told 
them that he was going to work abroad for a year. He also said that he was away from the 
house working abroad from December 2019 until mid-November 2020. And that hed only 
planned to stay in the UK until mid-January 2021, but ended up having to stay in the 
property until 5 February 2021 due to coronavirus restrictions. He said that the whole 
purpose of seeking out and purchasing the Unoccupied Property insurance policy in 
December 2019 was because he was going to be working abroad for a year and the house 
would be unoccupied.
Lloyds confirmed to our investigator that the policy was renewed on 2 December 2020 
through a call from Mr M to his broker. They also said that Mr M hadnt informed his broker 
at the time he renewed the policy that he was currently staying at the property due to 
coronavirus restrictions. They said that the broker hadnt been told about any variation to Mr 
Ms policy. They said it was the customers responsibility to declare any changes to the 
policy. And that they wouldve expected him to notify his broker that he was residing at the 
property. They said this would have shown that he had fallen outside the coverage 
requirements. Lloyds also said that the Unoccupied Property policy wouldnt have been 
offered to Mr M at renewal if hed explained his situation. They said he wouldve been 
offered a Holiday Home Policy instead. They said this was because the Unoccupied 
Property policy was specifically designed to provide coverage for unoccupied properties not 
occupied consecutively for more than seven days. They also said that Mr M had been 
required to notify them when his circumstances changed. And that he shouldve done this 
within 14 days of knowing of such changes. They said they hadnt been able to identify any notification from Mr M prior to his claim to inform them of a change in his circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Mr Ms property wasnt unoccupied for more than a year. I say this 
because of what Mr M has told this service. He said that although he intended to return to 
the UK every three to four months and to stay in his house, he hadnt been able to due to 
coronavirus restrictions. But he said that he did return to the UK in November 2020 and said 
that he stayed at his house for nearly three months, leaving on 5 February 2021. He said he 
renewed his policy when he was back in the UK in November 2020. I acknowledge that Mr M 
said he was out of the country when he received the renewal documentation. And that he 
only returned to the UK a few days after that. But its evident that his house hadnt been 
unoccupied for More than 1 year on either 10 November 2020, when Mr M completed the 
renewal documentation, or 10 December 2020, when the policy renewed.
So its clear that the Statement of Fact for the 2020 renewal recorded incorrect information. 
Mr Ms house hadnt been unoccupied for more than a year when the policy was due to 
renew. Mr M was living in it at the renewal date.
The renewal documentation also recorded that the question:
Is the Insured Property occupied from the inception date? was answered no. I 
acknowledge that it was correct at the point that Mr M completed the paperwork. But the 
question asked from the inception date of the policy, which is 10 December 2020. 
Therefore this information was also incorrect. And the policy was offered on the basis of at 
least two incorrect answers. 
Lloyds underwriters have confirmed that the Unoccupied Property policy was provided on 
the basis of the information recorded in the Statement of Fact. Their position is that had that 
Statement recorded the true situation, they wouldve offered Mr M different cover  Holiday 
Home insurance. This wouldnt have provided cover for escape of water. They said: 
An Unoccupied Policy would not be suitable for someone living in the property. This is 
clearly set out in the policy wording and how the product is designed. It clearly states it is not 
suitable for a policyholder who occupies the property more than 7 days etc. The client never 
informed us that they were ever living in the property but had we known, then the Renewal 
wouldnt have been offered on the product as advised previously.
Therefore, as its evident that Mr M made a careless misrepresentation at renewal, I can't 
fairly say that Lloyds have acted unreasonably by avoiding the policy and cancelling the 
claim and returning his insurance premium. Theyve provided evidence that they wouldnt 
have provided the Unoccupied Property insurance policy on any terms if theyd known all the 
details. So it was fair for them to avoid the policy and refuse the claim. But they must return 
the premiums, which theyve done. And I consider that if Mr M had ever informed Lloyds of 
correct details they wouldve offered him the Holiday Home insurance, which wouldnt have 
provided cover for escape of water.
As Ive said, Im satisfied that Mr M didnt give correct details to Lloyds at either the 2019 
inception or the 2020 renewal. And therefore he wouldnt have been eligible for the 
Unoccupied Property insurance policy. But even if he had been eligible for that cover, I think 
its likely that Lloyds wouldve had other reasons to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
The Unoccupied Property insurance policy contained a Water Turn Off Clause. This said:
It is a condition of this insurance that all water supplies to the home to be turned off at the 
mains. If you fail to comply with the condition above, this insurance will not cover loss or 
damage caused by escape of water from and frost damage to fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes.
Lloyds arranged for several inspections of the damage. They concluded that:
either the stop cock was not turned off fully, or was letting by. 
So its also possible that Lloyds couldve challenged the claim on the basis that they werent 
certain that Mr M had fully turned off the stop cock. 
Additionally, under the general conditions of the policy, the house must be inspected 
internally at least every 30 days and a record kept of each visit. While Lloyds said visits 
appeared to have taken place, I understand that there are no records available. Therefore 
this condition was breached at least to some degree. 
While I understand how badly Mr M has been affected by the incident, both emotionally and 
financially, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly when they avoided the policy from inception. 
Therefore I consider that they fairly declined the claim. And I dont intend to uphold the 
complaint, or require Lloyds to take any further action. 
Response to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said hed done the right thing when he 
bought the unoccupied house insurance policy to insure his house while working abroad for 
a long period of time. And felt let down by both his insurer and this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr Ms points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. Im 
sorry that Mr M feels let down, but I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman