DRN-3471524
The complaint
Mrs G complains that LCC Trans-Sending Limited trading as Small World Financial Services 
unfairly blocked her attempted transactions.
What happened
Mrs G says she tried to send money to an account in Africa in July 2020. She says the 
attempted payment was blocked by Small World and so she decided to send the money to a 
different recipient. Mrs G says that payment was also blocked, and she was asked for 
identification documents of the recipients. She says Small Worlds actions are part of a wider 
attempt by a number of others including the Police to stop sending money to the 
organisation she was attempting to send money to. Mrs G would like her account unblocked 
and compensation for what took place. She says the organisation in Africa is being 
discriminated against.
Small World says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to block a transaction 
and request further evidence of it. It says it blocked Mrs Gs payments in July for £20 but the 
following day Mrs G was able to send the money when she completed a fraud indemnity 
form. It also says no blocks were placed on Mrs Gs account and she was able to send 
money following this to the same recipient.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Small World was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to block a 
payment. The investigator thought the payment was made the following day and Mrs G was 
able to make payments to the same recipient. The investigator thought it for a court to 
decide if the Equality Act 2010 had been breached and thought Small World hadnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.
Mrs G doesnt accept that view and says false accusations have been made against the 
organisation in Africa and says contributors to it have been blacklisted. She says Small 
World are acting on the Polices behalf and questions if she was able to send money 
following the events of July 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I make clear to Mrs G what our role is here which is to look at both sides of this complaint 
and to consider the actions of Small World. It is not our role to comment on any wider issues 
involving the Police or the organisation in Africa.
I have looked carefully at Mrs Gs account terms and conditions which I think she would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Small World can in certain circumstances block or delay a payment pending a request for 
further information or evidence. So, I dont think Small World made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by blocking Mrs Gs attempts to send money in July 2020 and for asking for further 
evidence of the recipients.
I am sure Mrs G appreciates that fraud is a major problem for customers and businesses. 
And that businesses must have security measures in place which can on occasions result in 
legitimate or genuine transactions being blocked. That doesnt mean a business has made a 
mistake by applying those measures. I have not seen any evidence that suggests Small 
World blocked the attempted payments for anything other than genuine security concerns. 
And I can see that the following day Mrs G completed a signed fraud indemnity form which 
allowed her payment to be authorised. I think that provides further evidence that Small World 
was not acting unfairly or was trying to stop the recipient receiving the money but that it 
needed further information from Mrs G before authorising it. I dont think it matters how much 
the payment was for.
Im satisfied that the transaction was authorised the following day which did not result in a 
significant delay and I can see that Mrs G has been able to send the same recipient money 
following the attempt in July 2020. I dont know why Mrs G says her account is still blocked 
or why she says she has been unable to send the same recipient money as its clear from 
Small Worlds records, which Mrs G has been given, that she has been able to use the 
account and send money.
Overall, Im satisfied Small World has acted fairly and in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. The investigator has explained that it would be for a court to decide if the Equality 
Act 2020 has been breached and I have made clear that I have not seen any evidence of 
Mrs G being treated unfairly or differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman