DRN-4268653
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard misinformed him about a 
transaction. To resolve matters hed like to be compensated for what happened and the 
problems this caused. 
What happened
Mr C received a refund on his credit card amounting to £480 from a third-party relating to a 
subscription service. Hed had to raise a claim to get that money back and wanted to have it 
in cash. He contacted Barclaycard on 23 December 2022 to find out how he should go about 
this. Barclaycard told him that he could do a transfer to his current account. 
While on the call Mr C noticed there was a charge for making the payment (a transaction 
fee) of £14.88. He asked if Barclaycard would waive this, considering hed been a long-
standing customer. Barclaycard explained the fee was correct and declined to waive it. Mr C 
remained unhappy.
Mr C completed the transaction using his mobile app and the transaction was treated as a 
debit on his credit card due to it already having an outstanding balance on it. 
Mr C called again on 13 January 2023. He wanted the bank to waive the £480 that had 
debited his credit card because he didnt think it had explained the consequences of making 
the payment. He told Barclaycard that hed spent the funds in his current account over 
Christmas and was now out of pocket because the bank was holding him responsible for the 
amount debiting his credit card. He considered the refund from the subscription service 
should have been a standalone credit because this was money that belonged to him. It 
wasnt a loan to him. 
A member of staff offered to refund the transaction fee, pay £180 compensation, and waive 
interest until 26 January 2023 for its customer service. But they didnt waive the principal 
amount because Mr C had had that money. Mr C didnt think this was fair or the resolution 
went far enough so he rejected the £180 offered. He maintained the bank should waive the 
£480 due to the bad advice/lack of information. The member of staff didnt change their mind 
and escalated the matter as a complaint. 
Mr C referenced the £180 compensation hed been offered. 
The bank issued a response, which included the following points:
- It accepted it should have been clearer about how it handles refunds to the account. 
And to say sorry it would be waiving interest until 26 January 2023, refunding the 
transfer fee and paying £50 compensation. 
- But the transfer fee had been correctly applied for the type of transaction. 
- It wouldnt waive £480 because Mr Cs account wasnt in credit when he called to 
make the transfer - hed gone onto use that money. 
- It didnt think a payment of £180 was warranted considering what had happened.
Mr C referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators took a look at what had happened. But they didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. While they agreed the bank should have been clearer in explaining 
things, they thought the steps taken to resolve the complaint were fair. They didnt consider 
the £480 was a financial loss and felt £50 compensation together with the refund of the fee 
was fair.
Mr C didnt agree. So, his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr C had with Barclaycard on 23 December, where he explained he 
wanted the refund in cash. I agree the advisor didnt deal with the call properly given the 
information hed been given. The advisor ought to have looked at the account and then 
provided correct information. But equally an equitable remedy wouldnt be for Mr C to benefit 
from the mistake no matter how strongly he feels. Ill explain why. 
When the credits came into Mr Cs account there werent actually any surplus funds due to 
him already having an outstanding balance. So, when Mr C made the transfer, he did so 
using a portion of his credit limit, which is money borrowed and owed. I accept Mr C made 
that transfer not appreciating this and may not have made the payment, but I consider its a 
relevant factor that hes had the benefit of that money when he spent it. Given this, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to require Barclaycard to be liable for this aspect. So, I wont be 
requiring it to waive it. But Ill go on to look at what else the bank did to address the situation. 
In my view, the actual loss was the interest that was payable on the £480. But that would 
only apply up to the point that Barclaycard explained the correct position, which it did in the 
telephone call on 13 January. 
During this call, the bank said it would waive interest up to 26 January. Im satisfied this 
allowed Mr C the opportunity to then deal with the £480 when he repaid other spending. I 
appreciate Mr C considered the amount still in dispute and chose not to pay it. But be that 
as it may, this was his decision, knowing by this stage all the full facts.
Thinking about the refund of the transaction fee, interest waiver and payment of £50, Im 
satisfied what the bank proposed was a fair resolution in the circumstances*. The overall 
offer recognised the initial conversation had led to Mr C having to call back and raise a 
complaint about its service, his frustration at what had arisen, and it addressed any initial 
interest charges. Barclaycard also apologised and provided a clear explanation promptly (a 
final response following the next day). So, any actual distress and inconvenience was in my 
view limited. 
[*The payment of £50 and refund of the transaction fee appears on Mr Cs statements and 
are dated 13 January 2023].
Finally, Barclaycard offered Mr C £180 on the call on 13 January. This was done to help 
resolve the complaint. Once Mr C rejected it and wanted matters reviewed afresh (as hes 
entitled to have) the bank wasnt in my view under an obligation to reinstate the offer. So, it 
follows that I wont be requiring it to pay this.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman