DRN-2934083
Complaint
Mrs F and Mr Y says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added overdraft 
charges to his overdraft when they were in financial difficulty after experiencing a drop in 
their joint income.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs F and Mr Ys concerns and eventually concluded 
that Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs F and Mr Y unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs F and Mr Y disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs F and Mr Ys 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Mrs F and Mr Y over the years were fair and reasonable, 
or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F and Mr Y if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
their account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware Mrs F and Mr Y were experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered 
whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mrs F and Mr Y fairly and 
reasonably. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs F and Mr Y didnt get in touch with Halifax to explain their change 
in circumstances until July 2019. So Im satisfied that Halifax wasnt actually aware of these 
matters until this point. And when it was made aware, it refunded £100 in charges and 
suspended any further fees for a month. This provided Mrs F and Mr Y with some breathing 
space and they eventually managed to clear their overdraft a few months later. So Im 
satisfied Halifax did provide appropriate assistance once it was notified of Mrs F and Mr Ys 
change in circumstances. 
Nonetheless, this isnt the end of the matter as it doesnt automatically mean that Halifax 
treated Mrs F and Mr Y fairly and reasonably. After all bearing in mind Halifaxs responsibility 
to monitor Mrs F and Mr Ys account and its renewal of the overdraft in September 2018,  it 
may still be the case that Halifax ought to have realised Mrs F and Mr Y were in difficulty 
before being told this. So Ive also thought about whether Halifax ought to have realised    
Mrs F and Mr Y were struggling and acted sooner. 
Ive looked through Mrs F and Mr Ys statements throughout the period concerned. However, 
I cant see that Halifax ought reasonably to have been aware Mrs F and Mr Y were 
struggling and taken corrective measures in relation to their overdraft. Mrs F and Mr Y may 
argue the regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that they were struggling. 
But the account was in receipt of regular funds and it was in credit for reasonable periods in 
the period leading up to the facility being renewed in September 2018. 
So I think that it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to conclude there was a reasonable 
prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid, within a reasonable period of time rather 
than all in one go, at this stage. Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mrs F and Mr Y expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of 
non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions being made from the account 
too. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that          
Mrs F and Mr Y wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. However, the question I have to 
consider here isnt whether Mrs F and Mr Y were in financial difficulty. Rather what I need to 
think about is whether Halifax ought to have realised this before July 2019 and stepped in to 
take corrective action on the overdraft facility. And I dont think thats the case here as, in my 
view, there isnt anything in Mrs F and Mr Ys account transactions in themselves which 
ought to have prompted Halifax to have realised this, in the absence of them asking for help. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
the interest, fees and charges it added. And I also dont think that Halifax unfairly charged 
Mrs F and Mr Y in circumstances where it ought to have realised that they may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mrs F and Mr Ys 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mrs F and Mr Y  especially as its 
taken some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that theyll understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that their concerns have been listened to
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs F and Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman