DRN-2086547
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc supplied adverse information about him to 
credit reference agencies in error.
What happened
In late 2017, Capital One incorrectly linked Mr Ms credit card account with someone who 
shared the same name and date of birth. When the other customer called Capital One, it 
updated Mr Ms account with the wrong address and sent out a credit card.
A couple of months later, Mr M experienced issues when trying to open an account with a 
bank and a mobile phone provider. He also received letters from debt collection agencies 
regarding defaults on debts that didnt belong to him. Mr M noticed addresses he had no 
association with appeared on his credit report.  He reported his concerns to a credit 
reference agency.
In January 2018, after being contacted by the credit reference agency, Capital One told     
Mr M details on his account had changed and someone had been using his card. It refunded 
fraudulent transactions, changed the contact details back and closed the account. It told    
Mr M it would remove the negative information from his credit file and advised him to speak 
to the credit reference agencies to make sure there had been no further impact.
In July 2019, Mr M made a complaint to Capital One, who he said was responsible for 
significant damage to his finances and quality of life. Capital One had linked Mr Ms records 
to an individual with multiple defaulted credit accounts. His data had been breached by 
Capital One whod revealed confidential information to someone who had abused his data. 
Hed had to battle with various credit reference agencies and one of them was still reluctant 
to change the inaccurate data on his credit file. 
Capital One acknowledged it had incorrectly linked Mr Ms account with another individuals 
account. It could see from Mr Ms credit report that the incorrect address was still linked and 
had asked the credit reference agency to remove it again. It sent Mr M a cheque for £500 to 
compensate him for the errors it had made, and the inconvenience caused. It said it would 
be willing to consider financial loss if Mr M provided evidence.
Mr M didnt think the £500 Capital One had offered was enough to compensate him for his 
financial loss and the impact on his mental health. So, he brought, his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She agreed Capital One should have updated Mr Ms credit file correctly in 2018. But Capital 
One wasnt made aware of this error until July 2019. It had apologised and corrected the 
adverse information on Mr Ms credit file. 
She didnt think it was fair to ask Capital One to compensate Mr M for losing out on 0% 
offers from credit card providers. She wasnt able to say if these offers would have been 
available to Mr M if Capital One hadnt made the error. She felt the £500 Capital One had 
already offered was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr M had 
experienced.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He was seeking to recover financial damages 
caused by Capital One. So, his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Capital One has acknowledged the errors its made. So, what Ive had to consider is whether 
the £500 its paid Mr M is enough to compensate him for the impact Capital Ones mistakes 
have had on him.
Mr M says he was unable to re-mortgage his house because of a poor credit record and 
failed to make an application for extra borrowing of £30,000 from equity due to the adverse 
information on his credit file. But hes also told us that he cancelled appointments with the 
mortgage provider because he thought his request for the extra borrowing would be refused.
 
As Mr M didnt go ahead with the application, Ive no way of knowing if it would have been 
successful or if the mortgage provider would have turned him down because of the incorrect 
information on his credit file.
 
Mr M says he was managing his finances by making use of interest free promotional offers 
on credit cards from various lenders. But due to the impact his credit file in April 2018, the 
lenders put a stop to the promotional offers hed previously received quite frequently. One 
particular lender reduced his credit card limit from £12,200 to £8,700 and then decided not to 
issue him a credit card at all. This left him with no option but to start paying large interest on 
borrowings.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that he lost out on 0% credit card deals because of Capital 
Ones errors. Hes sent us copies of letters from lenders who had stopped offering him credit 
or promotional offers. But these letters indicate their decisions about extending credit or 
promotional offers are based on a number of criteria. I havent seen anything that shows    
Mr M lost out on cheaper credit solely because of the incorrect information on his credit file.
I havent seen strong enough evidence to conclude that Mr M lost out financially because of 
Capital Ones errors. But I have thought about the non-financial impact on Mr M. No doubt 
this has been a distressing and frustrating experience for him. Hes experienced a lot of 
inconvenience as hes tried to sort things out. He also received several letters from debt 
collection agencies regarding debts that didnt belong to him.
But from what Ive seen and been told, Mr M didnt contact Capital One about the ongoing 
issues relating to his credit file until July 2019. And I can see Capital One took steps to put 
things right, once it was aware of these. I also think the £500 Capital One has already paid 
Mr M is sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M. But I cant tell Capital One to compensate 
him for financial loss without evidence of this. As it already paid Mr M the £500 before he 
brought his complaint to our service, I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman