DRN-3943166
The complaint
Mr A complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance unfairly cancelled his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Mr A insured his van as a normal van. However, as part of the automated checks that 
take place when a policy is taken out, information was received by UKI from an 
external database which suggested the van had been fitted out and registered as a 
mobile shop/canteen. 
Mr A has suggested this evidence is fraudulent in that it either doesnt originate from 
the external database or that the van type has been fraudulently registered. Im 
satisfied the information has originated in the way UKI has suggested as is quite 
normal these types of checks are undertaken. And it isnt relevant to my decision 
here whether a previous owner incorrectly described the vehicle. 
UKI was entitled to ask Mr A for photos of the internal and externals of the van to 
verify the information it had received. As it is entitled to ensure the risk it is being 
asked to cover is correct. 
Mr A confirmed the van was a specially fitted vehicle but refused to provide the 
photos UKI requested or any further information that would allow UKI to further 
assess the risk the vehicle presented to it. 
As UKI was unable to verify the risk it was being asked to take on, it exercised its 
right under the policy to cancel it with seven days notice. I dont think UKI has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. 
It may well be that the external database has incorrect information as Mr A has 
suggested or that it hasnt been updated to reflect how the van is fitted out now. 
However, I think it was within Mr As power to clarify this information with UKI and 
provide it with the information it requested to resolve the matter one way or the other. 
The fact he chose not to do so, and the policy has now been cancelled is not down to 
something UKI has done wrong. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill Insurance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman