DRN-3072664
The complaint
Ms P says that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a mortgage repayment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy alongside her mortgage in 1999.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. After Ms Ps 
representative discussed the outcome with our adjudicator, they agreed to close the 
complaint. But later asked for an update.
So, as it seems that they no longer accept what our adjudicator said, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Having done so, I dont think that the MPPI policy was mis-sold to Ms P. I know this will be
disappointing for her so Ill explain why.
Ms P says that she didnt know about the MPPI policy  she feels that she was conned, and 
that she didnt want or need MPPI and wasnt asked if she wanted to take it out.
However, Bank of Scotland has provided Ms Ps MPPI application. This shows that it is s 
separate, optional product to the mortgage itself. Ms P has signed this application. So, with 
this in mind, I think that Bank of Scotland did make Ms P aware of the policy, and give Ms P 
a choice in taking out the MPPI, and that she chose to do so. Although I can understand why 
Ms P doesnt remember this as it was so long ago.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI policy to Ms P - so it needed to make sure that it
was right for her. And looking at his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
Its also possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear
as it shouldve been. But Ms P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks
like the policy couldve been useful to her if something went wrong. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms P about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Ms P, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms P has said - but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax does have to pay back to Ms P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman