DRN-3279419
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE wrongly didnt pay his claim under his 
pet policy. 
What happened
Mr T bought his policy with Great Lakes on line, it started on 16 July 2020 and expired on 16 
July 2021 because Mr T didnt wish to renew it. Mr T told this to Great Lakes on 1 July 2021 
and Great Lakes confirmed to him on 2 July 2021 that it would end his cover on 16 July 
2021, as he had requested.
Unfortunately, a couple of days later, on 4 July 2021, Mr Ts dog suffered a cruciate ligament 
rupture which required treatment and an operation. Great Lakes paid varying vet fees 
invoices of 5, 8 and 12 July 2021. However, the operation to repair the rupture wasnt 
scheduled until 5 August 2021 and when Mr T claimed for that, Great Lakes said as the 
policy lapsed as Mr T had requested on 16 July, he no longer had any cover so it wouldnt 
cover the operation costs done on 5 August 2021.
Mr T complained but Great Lakes wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator ultimately didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr T didnt agree so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute Mr T didnt want to renew his policy and that he no longer wanted any 
cover provided by this policy. This was all notified and confirmed between both Mr T and 
Great Lakes by 2 July 2021, following Great Lakes earlier invitation in June to Mr T to renew 
his policy. 
I consider the fact that the operation couldnt take place until 5 August to be irrelevant to the 
issues here. Thats because up until 16 July 2021 it was always open for Mr T to decide to 
renew his policy, which then would have given him the cover he required. It appears from his 
own testimony in the complaint form, he was aware on 12 July following his dog being x-
rayed that at the very least the operation was required, and it does seem likely at that stage 
that he also knew it couldnt take place until 5 August. If he wasnt fully aware the operation 
would be delayed to precisely 5 August, he was fully aware his policy was expiring at his 
own request on 16 July in any event and that his dog now required an expensive operation. 
The likelihood of the operation being scheduled before 16 July leaving aside the pandemic 
issues, given the x-ray confirming the operation only took place on 12 July, would have been 
somewhat remote in my view. So, I consider the delay because of the pandemic doesnt 
change anything. Thats because Mr T had time to renew his policy before 16 July if he 
wished. But he chose not to do this. I appreciate he had a new policy starting but Mr T had 
recognised that this new policy wouldnt cover these operation costs, as it would be rightly 
classed as vet costs arising from a pre-existing condition. Virtually no pet policy covers any 
vet fees incurred for a condition which happened before the policy started.
Pet policies are policies of indemnity, where the insurer indemnifies the policyholder in 
having to pay vet fees. The insured event is that the policyholder incurred vet fees, not as Mr 
T believes that he had a claim. The insured event is also not the fact that the pet had an 
accident or became ill, the insurance covers the vet fees that might be incurred dependant 
on the precise terms and conditions of the policy for whatever condition, given some 
treatments etc are anyway excluded. As I explained above, its standard industry practice to 
exclude the payment of any vet fees incurred during the term of insurance for a condition 
which occurred before the policy began. Further, the vet fees for the operation on 5 August 
2021 werent incurred by Mr T until 5 August at the earliest. Great Lakes had paid any vet 
fees claimed that Mr T incurred up the expiry date of his policy. Mr T wasnt insured with 
Great Lakes on 5 August 2021 at his own request, therefore there is no reason for Great 
Lakes to entertain his claim since there was also then no policy or contract of insurance 
between Great Lakes and Mr T on 5 August 2021. 
A contract of insurance between the insurer and insured requires a premium to paid. Its all 
part of essential basic contract law of offer and acceptance and the passing of consideration. 
The consideration here is the payment of premium. Since Mr T didnt renew his policy, there 
was no premium being paid to Great Lakes at the time of the insured event, namely Mr T 
incurring the vet fees of 5 August 2021. The premium Mr T had paid to Great Lakes only 
covered any vet fees incurred up 16 July 2021. Pet policies in general are annual contracts 
which only run for a year, and to continue to avail of the cover provided like in this one 
issued by Great Lakes, the policyholder must then renew the policy every year. 
The policy is also very clear on the limits of its indemnity to Mr T. Cover was consistently 
stated throughout the policy documentation as running from 16 July 2020 to 16 July 2021. 
The policy explained that the cover limit of £7,000 per year applies to new and recurring 
conditions for each year the policy is renewed (my emphasis).
Say for example, Mr Ts dog had been diagnosed instead with a chronic condition like 
diabetes or arthritis where medication and/or tests costs would be ongoing. There would be 
no liability for Great Lakes to pay for these ongoing medication and/or test costs if Mr T 
decided to let his policy expire. It would only pay those costs provided Mr T remained 
insured at the time he incurred each set of ongoing medication and/or test costs. Great 
Lakes itself used the example of a TV streaming subscription service. So, if Mr T was 
halfway through viewing a series but he decided to stop paying for his subscription, the TV 
subscription service wouldnt let him view the rest of the series, simply because he had 
started the series, because of course he was no longer paying the fee for subscribing. 
My role here is to see if Great Lakes did anything wrong having regard to the terms and 
conditions of the policy only, and I dont think it did. It followed Mr Ts instructions not to 
renew his policy, and it paid all the costs for vet fees incurred up to the date of the policys 
expiry. No insurer including Great Lakes here has any duty to a former policyholder once the 
policy expired. And further I consider it significant that if Mr T wished, he had time to renew 
his policy to avail of its cover, but he chose not to do that. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman