DRN-3757078
The complaint
Mr S complaint against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited is about a section 32 
pension policy. Mr S is unhappy that Prudential wont pay him the underlying cash value of 
the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) that the policy provides.
What happened
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties in July 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint 
and the reasons why he didnt recommend that it should be upheld were set out in that 
assessment. However in summary, Mr S had a section 32 policy following a transfer to it in 
1990. He transferred £3,491 from his previous employers pension scheme. 
When Mr S came to take the benefits from the policy on his 65th birthday, he was informed 
that he couldnt transfer the value of the GMP to another provider because its value wasnt 
high enough to cover its cost. Prudential said it would make up the shortfall to pay Mr S the 
GMP itself, £1,135 per annum at the time. But he couldnt transfer its cash equivalent value 
to another provider. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair as Prudential had guaranteed to meet any shortfall in the GMP.  
It was going to pay the cash equivalent value of the GMP to another pension provider to pay 
the GMP to Mr S. But it wouldnt pay it direct to him. He said he couldnt see how it made 
any difference to Prudential who it paid the same value to  Mr S or the other provider. He 
said he was legally entitled to the full value under the pension freedoms legislation 
introduced in 2015. Mr S also didnt think the GMP of £1,135 pr annum offered good value 
compared with its cost at that time  approximately £30,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that following the transfer to the section 32 policy Prudential was required to 
provide Mr S with the GMP at his retirement date, regardless of the underlying value of the 
fund. He said the policy booklet outlined how the section 32 policy worked, and it made clear 
that the GMP must remain with the policy if the GMP entitlement couldnt be secured. He 
said the policy could therefore only be transferred if the GMP was fully funded from the 
relevant part of the pension. As the GMP was underfunded on Mr S policy, the investigator 
didnt think Prudential was obliged to allow a transfer  it was carrying out its responsibilities 
under the section 32 agreement. 
The investigator said although Prudential was going to pay another provider the value of the 
GMP which would then pay it to Mr S, there was nothing in the policys terms, regulations or 
legislation that meant Prudential had to offer Mr S the cash equivalent value  it was only 
obliged to guarantee payment of the GMP.
The investigator explained that at retirement date the value of the section 32 policy was 
£30,634, split across two funds. Prudential had to pay the GMP out of the value of the      
With-Profit II fund, which had a shortfall of around £23,000 to cover it at the time. Mr S also 
had £23,280 in the With-profit I fund, which Mr S could use to provide additional benefits.
The investigator said that Mr S was correct in saying that pension freedom legislation 
allowed pensions to be accessed flexibly. But he said the legislation didnt require Prudential 
to either allow Mr S access to the GMP shortfall as cash or a transfer value. He said it was 
Prudentials choice to pay another provider to provide the GMP and it was entitled to make 
that business decision as long as it complied with the relevant regulations and legislation. 
The investigator said he thought Prudential had provided Mr S with the correct information 
about his benefits over time. He said he thought Prudential was operating the policy in 
accordance with the policys rules, and he said he didnt think Prudential was treating Mr S 
unfairly as it was offering him what he was entitled to. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings, and the complaint was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S transferred £3,491 into the 32 policy in 1990. He entered into a contractual 
arrangement with Prudential. The transfer value was invested in risk-based funds, and the 
ultimate value of the section 32 policy at Mr S retirement date wasnt known in 1990. 
However, the policy guaranteed to provide at least the value of the GMP when Mr S reached 
aged 65, irrespective of its actual value.
In my experience of section 32 policies, the majority are structured in such a way that the 
total value of the policy can be used to secure the GMP. However, in this particular policy 
the transfer value was split and invested into two separate funds. These were effectively 
ringfenced, and only the money invested in the With-profits II fund was to be used to provide 
the GMP at age 65  irrespective of its actual value at that date. Prudential therefore 
accepted the risk that if this part of the fund wasnt sufficient to pay Mr S the GMP at age 65  
it had to make up any shortfall to provide it. This is what happened here.
I understand the total value of the section 32, including both funds, was higher than the cost 
of providing the GMP. Its not entirely clear to me, but it appears Prudential would have 
allowed Mr S to transfer his plan and take advantage of the flexibility offered by the 
legislation introduced in 2015. But by doing so Mr S would have lost the underlying value of 
the GMP  hed only get the actual value of the With-profits II fund which was significantly 
less than the actual value needed to provide the GMP.
Mr S thinks Prudential should pay the actual cost of providing the GMP  rather than just the 
value of the With-profits II fund. Hes said as Prudential is going to pay the full value of the 
GMP to another provider, its unfair that it doesnt just pay it to him.  
However as the investigator explained, all the section 32 plan obliged Prudential to provide 
was the GMP at retirement date. Ordinarily it would pay that to Mr S itself when it became 
payable. But as it no longer provides annuities, its paying the value to another provider to 
pay that GMP to Mr S. Im not aware of any legal, regulatory, or contractual obligation that 
requires Prudential to pay Mr S the underlying cash value either directly or as a transfer 
value; its only required to pay him the GMP which it has offered to do. Prudential is 
guaranteeing the shortfall  its offering benefits to Mr S as it agreed to do when Mr S took 
out the plan in 1990. So Im not persuaded it can be said to be treating Mr S unfairly. 
Prudential guaranteed to pay him the GMP which is what is has offered to do. 
Mr S has said the annual GMP payable provides poor value relative to its cost. I appreciate that on the face of it this might appear the case. However the cost of the GMP is dependent 
on annuity rates and will change over time. Annuity rates are calculated using a number of 
variables, including average life expectancy. The market cost to provide the GMP reflects in 
part the probability, on average, of how long the annuity is likely to be paid for. So whilst I 
understand why Mr S would prefer Prudential to pay him its underlying value, in reality, its 
the cost of buying that stream of future income.
Mr S has said Prudentials actions arent in accordance with the changes in pension 
legislation introduced in 2015. However I dont agree Prudentials stance its inconsistent with 
that legislation. That legislation was enabling, in that it allowed for flexibility in the way that 
pension holders could take their pensions. 
Pension freedoms legislation allowed pension providers to provide certain flexible benefit 
options. But Prudential, like other pension providers, wasnt obligated to provide flexible 
features allowed for by the legislation, whether relating to a section 32 policy or other 
personal pension arrangements. For example if existing pension products didnt provide for 
flexible access, firms werent required to change their products to provide such flexibility. 
And the existing legislation in force wasnt overridden by the pension freedoms legislation; 
some providers decided not to offer all flexible options on all of their products. 
I understand why Mr S would prefer his GMP (or its value) to be paid to him in a different 
way than Prudential is offering. However given that Prudential has offered benefits to Mr S in 
line with what it agreed to provide when Mr S took out the policy, Im not persuaded it has 
acted incorrectly or can be said to be treating Mr S unfairly. It guaranteed to pay Mr S the 
GMP, which is what it has offered to do. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
agree with what Mr S has said about the legislation in 2015  in my view Prudentials actions 
arent inconsistent with that legislation  it doesnt oblige Prudential to pay Mr S the 
underlying value of the GMP direct, or as part of a transfer value. 
I realise that Mr S feels strongly that what Prudential is doing is unfair. But having carefully 
considered the matter, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator that his 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, and for largely the same reasons as Ive explained above.
For completeness, I note that in Mr S response to the investigator he referred to his 
concerns about the original sale of the plan by another firm and that the sale wasnt 
reviewed as part of the regulators industry wide pension review. This decision only relates to 
the complaint as set out under The complaint heading above, and doesnt consider these 
other issues. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman