DRN-4200263
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with how Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have engaged with him 
about his retail account. Mr I feels hes been treated unfairly by Shop Direct because they 
did not properly take into account his circumstances when dealing with him. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I thought Mr Is complaint 
should be upheld, and invited both parties to provide any further submissions in reply to my 
provisional decision. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings, which are included below and now form part of this final decision. 
Background 
Mr I signed a credit agreement with Shop Direct on 10 January 2022, which had a revolving
credit limit of £400 to purchase various goods.
On 17 November 2022 Mr I let Shop Direct know that, through his choice, he had left his
place of work and so requested that the account be placed on hold for a month until he
found new employment. In the circumstances, this was agreed to by the agent. By placing
the account on hold it would stop Mr I being chased for payment.
However, the account wasnt placed on hold and Mr I received several forms of contact from
Shop Direct about the outstanding debt.
On 8 December 2022 Mr I spoke with Shop Direct about this as he felt he was being
harassed when Shop Direct had already been made aware of his circumstances. He spoke
with a different agent and unfortunately the conversation deteriorated so that nothing was
resolved. Mr I said the agent he talked to was particularly rude and a complaint was raised.
Shop Direct replied to Mr Is complaint on 22 December 2022. They accepted that Mr Is
account had not been placed on hold when it shouldve been, and that this had resulted in
Mr I receiving unnecessary calls and contact. To recognise this Shop Direct arranged to
send Mr I a £30 cheque. Shop Direct also apologised for what had happened, and noted that
an administration charge for £12 had also been refunded to Mr I on 16 December 2022.
Shop Direct didnt uphold Mr Is complaint about the agent whom he spoke with on 8
December 2022.
On 6 January 2023 Shop Directs notes record Mr I told them that due to his mental health
he was unable to leave the house in order to be able to cash the cheque.
Shop Directs notes, on 9 January 2023, record that they spoke with Mr I to advise the
money could not be put back onto Mr Is card nor could they complete a refund to his bank.
Mr I was told that a credit could be made to his account. On the same day, Mr I referred his
concerns to this service.
The cheque for £30 was cleared on 19 January 2023.
When submitting their case file to this service Shop Direct said that after reviewing the call
between Mr I and their agent on 8 December 2022 again, they felt Mr I should have received
better service from their agent and therefore offered to pay Mr I a further £50.
Mr Is account has been on hold during the course of his complaint.
Our Investigator concluded Shop Directs steps to settle the matter were fair in the
circumstances, and they said the further £50 should be paid to Mr I via a bank transfer.
However, Mr I didnt feel the Investigator had properly considered everything and did not
accept their investigation or conclusions, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
My understanding is that, following various exchanges, the £50 has now been applied to
Mr Is account to reduce the outstanding balance.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive only included a summary of events above, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive
reviewed all the available submissions on this case, including the calls that took place
between Mr I and Shop Directs agents on 17 November 2022 and 8 December 2022.
I understand Mr I is particularly unhappy with how Shop Direct have treated him by not
properly taking into account his health and situation, and what he told them about being
unable to leave his house in order to cash cheques. Mr I has told our service this matter has
caused him considerable stress and he now simply wants to be able to clear and close his
account with Shop Direct.
Shop Direct have already accepted they did not do what they said they would in terms of
putting Mr Is account on hold, and that this led to them contacting Mr I when they should not
have done.
Having listened to the call on 8 December 2022, it is clear that the unexpected contact from
Shop Direct had caused Mr I a lot of stress and upset. Mr I said hed been called three times
that day and received two text messages as well, and felt he was being harassed. During the
call Mr I let the agent know that he was struggling to meet priority payments and that he was
suffering with his mental health. It did not help when the agent commented that contact from
them was what happened if you fell behind with payments.
As noted earlier, Shop Direct issued their response to Mr Is complaint on 22 December
2022 and said they were sending him a cheque for £30 to recognise Mr I should not have
been contacted by their systems when theyd agreed to remove him for that period of time.
After this Mr I then told Shop Direct he felt unable to leave his house to cash the cheque.
Shop Directs notes suggest they looked at some other ways to send Mr I the compensation,
but said they couldnt pay it to his bank or back to his card. Ive considered whether, in the
circumstances, this was fair.
As the lender, I would remind Shop Direct of the regulators requirements to ensure they are
paying due regard to the interests of their customers, understanding the needs of vulnerable
customers and treating them fairly.At the time of letting Mr I know the limits of what they could do with the payment, I think its
reasonable to say Shop Direct were aware Mr I was in financial difficulties and that he was
experiencing mental health challenges which were preventing him from being able to leave
his home.
Given Mr Is vulnerabilities I think Shop Direct could have done more to step out of their
usual processing limits and accommodate the option for Mr I to receive the payment direct to
his bank account (something they have since indicated they are able to do). By not doing
this, Mr I has described the difficulty he experienced in having to leave his house to pay in
the cheque, and the significant impact on his health at an already difficult time.
Because of this, and given the upset caused to Mr I from receiving contact from Shop Direct
when he reasonably wasnt expecting it, I think Shop Direct should pay Mr I a further £200.
I consider compensation of this amount is fair where the impact of the businesss actions or
inactions have caused considerable distress, upset and worry and/ or significant
inconvenience and disruption. I think this describes Mr Is experiences as a result of Shop
Directs errors.
I think the offer of £50 to recognise what was said during the call on 8 December 2022 is
reasonable in the circumstances, as was the refunded charge.
I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr I is experiencing, and I would remind him of the
various charities that are available for support should he find this helpful. If Mr I would like
details of these charities, our Investigator can provide them to him directly.
And I would remind Shop Direct of their responsibility to support borrowers in financial
difficulty with appropriate forbearance.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons above, I intend to uphold Mr Is complaint and tell Shop Direct to pay £200
to Mr Is bank account, or reduce the balance on his Shop Direct account if that is his
preference.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr I and Shop Direct both responded to my provisional decision to accept my provisional 
findings. And Mr I confirmed he would wish for the payment of £200 to be made directly to 
his bank account. After consideration, Shop Direct have agreed to do this for Mr I on receipt 
of his acceptance to resolve the complaint in this way. 
As both parties replied before the deadline set out in my provisional decision, I have now 
gone on to complete my final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the responses to my provisional decision there is no new evidence or submissions 
for me to consider, so I see no reason to alter my conclusions as set out in my provisional 
findings above. That is, I think Mr Is complaint should be upheld and Shop Direct should pay Mr I £200 to 
recognise the upset their actions have caused him  notably the upset caused by not placing 
Mr Is account on hold when promised, and for not giving proper consideration to Mr Is 
particular circumstances so as to treat him fairly during the course of these events. 
Putting things right
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should pay £200 to Mr Is bank account. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Is complaint is upheld and Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited should settle the matter as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman