DRN-4249021
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited disposed of their 
cars salvage following a claim made on their motor insurance policy. Mrs W is represented 
in this matter by Mr W, a named driver on her policy. Mr W wants compensation for the 
upset caused and their financial losses.
What happened
Mrs Ws car was damaged in an incident and Advantage declared it to be a total loss. Mr W 
had told Advantage that they wanted to retain the salvage even if it was written off. But 
Advantages agent sold the salvage by mistake. 
Mr W said he intended to buy back the salvage and repair the car. Mr W said he could have 
repaired the car for under £1,000 whilst Advantages repairer estimated the repairs costs at 
about £3,000. After the complaint came to us, Advantage offered Mrs W £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. But Mr W wanted compensation for his financial loss.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She saw that the pre-
loss market value of Mr Ws car was £3,500 whilst the salvage value was about £663. Mr W 
provided evidence to show that he could have repaired the car for £454 for labour and £877 
for second-hand parts to repair the car to a similar standard to that Advantage would have 
done. She also thought that it was fair to deduct 20% from the cars value because of the 
salvage marker and to deduct the £395 policy excess. 
So she thought Advantages error had caused Mr W a loss of £361. And so she thought 
Advantage should pay Mrs W this amount, with interest. But she thought Advantages offer 
of £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this matter was fair and 
reasonable. 
Advantage replied that it had already put Mrs W back in the same position she was in before 
the accident by paying her the cars market value. And it thought the recommended redress 
would lead to betterment. It also thought Mr Ws repairs estimate didnt include all the 
needed parts and the repairs may find other damage. It thought its compensation offer was 
fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W replied that the policy excess had already been deducted from the settlement. He 
thought the parts could be bought for £450 and the 20% deduction for the salvage marker 
wouldnt apply as they didnt intend to sell the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Advantage accepts that Mr W made it clear before the car was taken for 
assessment that they wanted to retain the cars salvage even if it was a total loss. Our 
approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor insurance 
policy, as Mr Ws car was, the insurer, in this case Advantage, becomes the owner of the 
salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
Our stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we expect the insurer to allow 
this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to keep it if 
they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Advantage thought compensating Mr W for his financial loss would lead to betterment. But, 
as it has accepted, it needs to restore Mr Ws position. And, but for its error in disposing of 
the salvage, Mr W would have received a reduced settlement and been able to retain his 
cars salvage and carry out repairs. So our approach is that its fair and reasonable to 
consider the trouble and upset caused as well as the financial loss in order to restore Mr Ws 
position.  
So Ive considered the financial loss Mrs W was caused. The starting point for my 
consideration is the cars pre-loss market value of £3,500. Advantage said the salvage value 
was about £663 and this is what should have been deducted from the settlement if the car 
had been retained. 
The car would then be considered a previous total loss and it would be less attractive to 
potential buyers. Mr W said he didnt intend selling the car, but I cant rely on this as things 
may change. And as Advantage has agreed to pay the cars full market value, I think its fair 
and reasonable to reduce its value by 20% due to the salvage marker. 
The policy excess is always payable as the first part of a claim, and I havent seen that Mr W 
paid this separately. So I think its fair and reasonable to deduct the policy excess of £395. 
I have then considered the repairs needed to restore the car. Advantages engineers 
estimate was for over £3,000. But it accepts that consumers may be able to achieve cheaper 
repairs that use second-hand parts and dont have the same repairs guarantee. And Im 
satisfied that Mr Ws estimates for the correct parts, from his research, and labour, from his 
garage, provide a fair estimate of the costs he would have incurred in having the car 
repaired. 
Advantage thought that the repairs, if carried out, may have found more damage. But I 
havent considered this as its hypothetical. Advantage also thought Mr Ws estimate didnt 
include all the needed repairs. But Ive relied on his garages review of Advantages own 
report, and so I think that provides a sufficient estimate. 
Mr W lately thought he could source cheaper parts, but I think its fairer to rely on his initial 
estimate for similar parts to repair the car to provide a more accurate estimate. So I think 
deductions should then be made for the repair costs of £454 for labour and £877 for parts. 
So, Im satisfied that because of Advantages error, Mrs W has suffered a financial loss of 
£361. And I think Advantage should pay her this amount. And, because Mrs W has been 
without her money for some time, I think Advantage should add interest to this amount. 
Advantage paid Mrs W £100 compensation and then it offered to increase this to £300 to 
take into account the trouble and upset caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance where an error has had a significant impact over some 
months.  
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:1. Pay Mrs W £200 further compensation (£300 in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of her claim, as its already agreed to do.
2. Pay Mrs W £361 for her financial loss caused by its error. Interest should be added to 
this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of initial settlement to the 
date of payment. 
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman