DRN-3909274
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Prism EBC Ltd (Prism), trading as Spectrum 
Independent Financial Advice Ltd, not to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal arrangement. He thinks the advice was 
fundamentally flawed and didnt adhere to the relevant regulatory requirements of the time. 
Mr T also thinks that Prism hasnt looked after his data correctly under general data 
protection rules (GDPR). And it didnt properly respond to his request for information about 
this. 
Given all of this, Mr T thinks that the fees he paid for the advice were too high and should be 
refunded. 
What happened
Mr T approached Prism in April 2021 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Prism 
and Mr T completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. 
This, and the other information Ive been provided, shows that:
Mr T was aged 59 and married. Mrs T was aged 56.
Mr and Mrs T were directors of a business and they both drew an income of around 
£12,500 each year.
They had two children who were not dependent on them.
Mr T had a chronic condition but was otherwise in good health. Mrs T had recently 
had some health problems.
Mr and Mrs T owned a property that was worth around £500,000. They had savings 
and investments that were worth a similar amount. 
Mr T was seeking advice about one of his DB schemes which had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £1,358,000. 
He also had self invested personal pension plan (SIPP) worth £283,000. And another DB 
scheme with a value of around £180,000. He had a third personal arrangement which he 
had used to opt out of the state earning related pension scheme. This had a modest value. 
Prism also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. I 
have noted that, due to a change in the way Prism assessed this, it was changed later on to 
adventurous. I dont think this change is material in respect of this complaint. 
A recommendation was issued on 26 May 2021. This was part of an abridged advice 
process where the recommendation was based on Mr Ts personal circumstances and the 
scheme benefits, but a full transfer analysis wasnt done. This letter wasnt conclusive about 
the transfer, it said that Our advice is that further analysis is required to determine whether 
or not a transfer of your scheme pension would be in your best interest.
Mr T said that he wanted full advice after the abridged process and Prism started to do this. 
This included gathering some further information and doing full regulatory calculations about 
the scheme transfer values and the options it could provide in comparison with a personal 
arrangement.
On 19 August 2021, Prism issued a full advice suitability letter, with some supporting 
documents such as the comprehensive analysis document and the pension transfer report. 
In summary this said that Based on the fact that your key objectives can be met by scheme 
pension and tax-free cash, we cannot recommend that a transfer would be in your best 
interest. It didnt think that it was worthwhile for Mr T to give up his guaranteed scheme 
benefits as they would meet his needs and be very expensive to replace. 
Mr T complained in 2021 to Prism about the advice not to transfer. The crux of this complaint 
was that the analysis was flawed and so was not fit for purpose. 
Mr Ts complaint focussed on what he said were multiple errors particularly around the DB 
pension scheme projected benefits and his retirement dates. The analysis also used a 
generic scheme and charges which Mr T didnt feel was right. He said protecting his wifes 
income should he predecease her, and their death benefits, were priorities. And Mr T has an 
illness that reduced his life expectancy which wasnt properly accounted for. 
Prism didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that he was informed of how the advice process 
would work and that it could result in advice not to transfer being given. And in this case the 
fee would still be charged. Ultimately, its advice was not to transfer and whilst Mr T doesnt 
agree with this it thinks this was correct. It said it fully considered Mr Ts circumstances at 
the time and its advice would be the same even if it had changed the basis on which it 
calculated his DB scheme entitlements. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
didnt think that Prism had used incorrect figures in the full advice process, and she outlined 
Prisms explanation of the pension forecasts used. And she also explained why Mr Ts 
attitude to risk rating had changed over time. She thought the advice Prism gave was 
reasonable. 
Our investigator also said the Information Commission Officer (ICO) had investigated Mr Ts 
complaint about the incorrect handling of his personal information. And so, she wouldnt 
consider this further. 
Mr T disagreed, saying that he still thought the DB pension amounts used were incorrect 
and, overall, the advice process was poor. Prism didnt communicate correctly, and it made 
errors, particularly relating to the amount of pension that he would receive from the DB 
scheme. Prism knew about these errors but provided advice anyway. These errors 
invalidated the advice. 
Mr T also said the abridged advice process gave the impression that full advice would 
conclude that a transfer out would be the path to follow. This was against FG21/3
He has now taken advice from another firm and received advice to transfer. He says the 
process was much better with this other firm. 
Mr T feels that Prism has failed to follow its own rules and terms of engagement, and the 
FCA rules and regulations
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided a significant amount of detial as part of his complaint. While 
Ive carefully read and considered everything, I havent addressed every point 
here. Instead Ive focused on what I see as the crux of Mr Ts complaint and the 
reasons for my decision.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements of the advice process Prism followed
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In its client agreement letter sent in April 2021 Prism explained to Mr T that it would firstly 
offer abridged advice. Abridged advice would look at Mr Ts circumstances to see if it this 
would give an indication about whether he should not transfer. It said that if it was not clear 
whether he should transfer or not at the abridged advice stage then he would need to 
receive full advice. 
The information Ive seen indicates that Prism followed this process as set out to Mr T when 
advising him. And this process seems to be in line with guidance the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), set out for providers giving abridged pension transfer advice in the 
Conduct of Prism Sourcebook (COBS), under COBS 19.1A. I note that when the abridged 
service resulted in an inconclusive recommendation, Mr T asked for full advice to be given.
And there are further rules and guidance that Prism needed to follow when giving advice. 
The most important of these are the provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations 
when giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in 
COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Prism should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
So, having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Financial viability 
Prism carried out a transfer value comparator report (as required by the regulator) to show 
what sum of money Mr T would need to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme at 60 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming he took a full pension. It also showed how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year 
in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
Mr T was 59 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between the ages of 60 and 61. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits at these ages was around 50% if he took 
a full pension. This means that the transferred pension would need to grow at this rate each 
year to match the benefits given up. And the cost of providing these equivalent benfits at his 
time of retirement was shown to be over £2,000,000 for both ages. 
These returns are very high, and it wouldnt normally be realistic or probable for an 
investment to be expected to provide these, over this term. It follows that I think it was 
reasonable for Prism not to recommmend that Mr T transfer when he was likely, if not almost 
certain, to be worse of when he did so because of this.  
The main issue that Mr T has raised about the full advice he was given is that he thinks the 
propseptive pension figures that Prism used were too high. And these in turn led to this 
analysis being flawed, which affected the advice to transfer he was given. 
Prism on the other hand has said that it took the actual figures from the scheme at the date 
of deferrement in 2020. This was then increased up to the schemes retirment date of 60  
using the scheme rules  and then further increased for for late payment at age 61 to look at 
the situation if Mr T retired at this time. Prism has explained that the increase for the 
deferred pension was relatively high, and this led to the higher pension income amount that 
was used in some of its analysis. 
Like all calculations of this type there are a number of assumptions used. These are detialed 
in the pension tranfser report in full. I dont think its reasoanble to say that that the 
assumptions used here are incorrect. But they have led to the higher DB pension figure at 
age 61 that Mr T strongly disgrees with. 
I wont go into all of the detail about the calculations, although Id like to reassure Mr T that I 
have read all of what hes said on this subject. But the overriding factor here is that the point 
of this analysis is to show the value of the benefits he was giving up if he were to transfer his 
DB scheme. As Ive outlined above the value of the DB scheme benefits is so far in excess 
of the CETV that its clear Mr T would lose out financially if he transferred. And this is the 
case not just for the higher pension amount that Prism calculated would be a available from 
at 61. But also for the pension amounts from his age 60. Which were lower.  
As this is the case I dont think there would be any prospect of this transfer being financially 
viable. I think its reasonable to say that Prisms analysis established that the DB transfer 
would result in him being less well off in retirement. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that Prism thought there was a problem with the 
calculations it had made. It did look into some aspects of this at an early point, but I dont 
think it thought they were incorrect and proceeded in any event. And its clear now that it 
thinks the amounts it used are correct and it has said this a number of times. 
And Prism was required to produce this analysis under FCA rules  it couldnt simply ignore 
this regulatory requirement in Mr Ts case. And in my view the comparator is important 
because it highlights the risks involved in transferring and the valuable benefits provided by 
a DB pension. This is the case even if Mr T may not have wanted an annuity. 
In summary Mr Ts DB scheme provided a guaranteed and escalating pension. And the 
information Prism recorded at the time, and relied on to support the advice, showed that it 
was highly unlikely Mr T would be better off financially in retirement as a result of transferring. So, I think the conclusion reached by Prism, that transferring Mr Ts DB scheme 
benefits was likely not in his best interests from a financial viability perspective, was 
reasonable.
But financial viability is not the only consideration  there might be other compelling 
reasons, which would make a transfer suitable. And Mr T said that at the time of sale he 
was attracted by the flexibilty a personal pension offered, and the increased death benefits. 
He also thinks that his health should have been more fully considered. 
Flexibility and income needs
Prism concluded that Mr T did not need to transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to meet 
his need for flexibility. This was because he had other pensions and investments that he 
could use to meet these aims. This is one of the things the regulator suggests Prism should 
take into account, particularly when giving abridged advice. 
And it is the case Mr T did have other assets that could be used flexibly. He had a SIPP with 
a value of £280,000 and he and Mrs T also had a significant savings and investments. 
Prism concluded that Mr and Mrs Ts income needs could be met largely by Mr Ts DB 
scheme, Mrs Ts provision and their state pensions. And Mr Ts other pensions and savings 
could be used to, for example, provide an income if they wanted to retire early. And the SIPP 
and the investments were already subject to investment risk  which the DB scheme was not 
and so there was no need to give up the DB scheme. 
So, it concluded that a transfer was not in Mr Ts best interests and was unsuitable. 
Considering the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said Prism 
needed to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable. 
Death benefits and Mr Ts health condition
Mr T wanted to leave lump sums to his beneficiaries on his death. In general terms death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. And I think Prism did this 
here. 
Mr T strongly believes that Prism didnt fully consider his health situation when it gave him 
advice. He thinks he may not live to his full life expectancy due to a medical condition he 
has. And he thinks that Prism didnt properly factor this into the advice it gave. 
Whilst Mr T did have a health condition. This doesnt mean that a DB transfer would 
automatically be in his best interests. It can be a good reason to transfer a DB scheme if a 
health condition has led to a much-reduced life expectancy. And this in turn makes it 
reasonable to take the DB scheme benefits straight away. But for this to be in someones 
best interests it needs to clear that they will not live long into retirement so its a better 
financial decision to use the DB transfer proceeds now, as they may not receive a significant 
amount of pension. And bearing in mind this pension would include significant dependents 
benefits. 
Prism did discuss whether Mr Ts life expectancy would be reduced by his medicalcondition. But he also seemed to be in generally good health. So, a very much reduced life 
expectancy doesnt seem to be a certainty or even a likelihood here. 
So, whilst I accept that Mr T may have believed he would have a reduced life expectancy at 
the time of advice, him not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility. And if he lived 
longer than he was expecting to, Mr T would need his pension benefits to last for longer. 
And if Mr T transferred out of the DB scheme, he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide any death benefits, 
whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. 
Mr Ts complaint about his personal data
It is clear that this has been considered by the ICO and this organisation now considers it 
resolved. And whilst the Financial Ombudsman can consider complaints about this issue. I 
dont think its appropriate to replicate or reconsider it here. The ICO is the expert body about 
this type of issue, and it now says that the complaint Mr T has raised about Prism have been 
addressed. I wont consider this issue any further. 
Summary
I understand that Mr T disagrees with Prisms advice and recommendation. But Im satisfied 
Prisms advice was based on his individual circumstances and needs at the time and that 
having considered these it said it wasnt in Mr Ts best interests to transfer the benefits from 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. 
I appreciate that Mr T and Prism had differing views of what was in his best interests. But I 
think its important to stress that Prisms role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr T 
wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr T, and in doing so it had to look beyond what Mr T 
wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests. And from 
what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Mr Ts chosen path, which was to give up a 
guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in his best interests. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable conclusion for Prism to have made at the time.
Finally, I want to clarify that I cannot change or influence the rules the FCA sets for Prism  
thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to consider individual 
complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. And in this case, Im 
satisfied Prism hasnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly - so I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman