DRN-2036385
The complaint
L complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision not to pay out a cheque they had issued.
What happened
L is a club who is being represented by Mr M who is the secretary.
L issued a cheque for around £1,400 to another club. The cheque was signed by the club 
treasurer and a club secretary. L received a call from the club it had sent the cheque to, 
saying it hadnt been paid, due to fraud. 
Mr M went into an HSBC branch to find out what had happened. A member of staff told him 
there was an internal document saying fraud, but she didnt know the reason for this. So,  
Mr M made a formal complaint to HSBC.
HSBC said the signatures on the cheque differed to the ones it held on record. It said it had 
tried to contact L but had been unsuccessful. L needed to take identification into an HSBC 
branch and update the signatures.
L remained unhappy so Mr M brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Ls concerns but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt HSBC had treated 
L fairly and reasonably. It had followed the processes that were in place to protect customers 
funds. 
L disagreed with our investigators view. Mr M made several points about the cheque being 
properly signed and the signatures matching. He also didnt think HSBC had made sufficient 
effort to contact L. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require HSBC to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. It also has a duty to protect the money in Ls account from potential 
fraud.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive considered all of his points, even if I havent referred to 
each of them individually.
I appreciate Mr M feels the signatures on the cheque match those on the mandate HSBC 
had on file. But Im not a handwriting expert, and to make a decision on this case, I dont 
need to be. Its not for me to make a finding based on whether I personally think the 
signatures match. What Ive needed to consider is whether HSBC has acted fairly and 
reasonably when checking the signatures and deciding not to pay the cheque. 
Measures such as checking signatures on cheques are in place to prevent fraud. HSBC is 
free to set its security policies, including actions to take if its unhappy with the signatures. 
Im satisfied that HSBC had a genuine concern that the cheque might not have been signed 
by the person authorised to do so. It also has an obligation to keep its customers funds safe. 
So, I think it was reasonable for it to follow its internal procedures, which led to the cheque 
being returned unpaid. 
L has also complained that it didnt receive any contact from HSBC about a problem with the 
cheque. HSBCs records show that a call was attempted but not answered. Its provided a 
further screenshot to show the telephone numbers it had on record. 
Mr M says one of these is the treasurers mobile number and the other is the switchboard of 
the treasurers former employer. HSBCs notes dont show which number was attempted.  
But the notes say HSBC was unable to contact the customer because the number was 
reaching voicemail. So, I think HSBC is likely to have tried the mobile number but didnt get 
through to speak to Ls treasurer.
Mr M has commented that HSBC didnt try to contact L using other methods. HSBCs 
procedure says to contact the customer to confirm the transaction, but it doesnt specify the 
method. Im also aware that HSBC had a short timescale to decide whether to pay or return 
the cheque. So, I dont think it was wrong to have only attempted a phone call. 
Its unfortunate that HSBC didnt consider the signatures a close enough match. Although its 
not disputed that the cheque was signed by a person who had authority to do so, I dont 
think this means that HSBC made a mistake. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably. I appreciate 
this resulted in some difficulties for L. But the amount of inconvenience L experienced is 
small compared to what might have happened had the cheque not been genuine, and HSBC 
had allowed it to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman