DRN-3070634
The complaint
Miss Ls complaint is that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly changed the terms of her 
excess payment when her pet insurance policy renewed.
What happened
Miss L took a policy with Great Lakes in 2017. The policy was fixed for life, which meant the 
annual premium would remain the same so long as Miss L renewed each year.
In 2020, Great Lakes wrote to Miss L and explained that from the next renewal, the policy 
would be changed from per condition cover to lifetime cover. Great Lakes confirmed that 
as an existing customer, Miss L would continue to pay the same fixed premium each year at 
renewal.
Great Lakes also said that the excess payment due would change, from £69 per illness + 
20% of claims, to £69 per year + 20% of claims (my emphasis in bold).
Following a recent claim, Miss L was unhappy with the change in the policy excess and 
complained to Great Lakes. She said she hadnt agreed to this change of policy terms.
Great Lakes provided its final response and didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had sent 
two notifications to Miss L before the policy renewed, explained the changes, and given her 
the opportunity to accept the change or end the cover.
Miss L disagreed and referred the complaint to our service. She said that as her pets illness 
pre-dated the changes to her policy the original excess agreement should be honoured.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded the information provided by Great Lakes before the policy renewed in 2020 was 
clear. And they were satisfied Miss L had accepted those changes by allowing the policy to 
auto-renew.
Miss L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
An insurer will sometimes want to make changes to the terms of a policy. And its 
entitled to do this at renewal. This is because when the policy renews, it is a new 
contract between the insurer and insured party. But the insurer must highlight these 
changes to a customer in the renewal invitation, so they can consider if the policy 
remains suitable for them. And this must be done in good time for the customer to 
decide.
The information provided by Great Lakes also needed to be clear, fair, and not 
misleading so Miss L could make an informed choice about whether the cover was 
still suitable for her needs. And I think that any changes to an excess payment are 
significant, since Miss L needed to know what she would be required to pay towards 
any treatment. So, Ive checked to see if this change was clearly drawn to her 
attention.
The evidence Ive seen from Great Lakes shows that it wrote to Miss L twice before 
the policy renewed; 90 days before the renewal and then again 28 days before 
renewal. Im satisfied this was in good time.
The information regarding the change to the excess is included in a document which 
sets out the main policy changes. Under the section titled Will this affect Fixed for 
Life customers premiums? it states, Customers who already have a Fixed for Life 
policy will not see their price change and theyll only ever pay one excess each year, 
however many claims they make.
I think this information clearly highlights and sets out the change to the excess, so 
Miss L could check if this was different to what shed previously paid. And the policy 
documents provided 28 days before renewal also set out the new excess terms per 
year. So, after reviewing the documentation, Im persuaded Great Lakes gave clear 
information about the amendment to the excess term and Im not going to require it to 
anything further here.
Ive considered Miss Ls comments about her pets illness pre-dating the policy 
changes, but I dont think that this means Great Lakes should waive the excess in the 
circumstances. Ultimately the terms here apply to the 12-month contract of 
insurance, and as Im satisfied Great Lakes clearly highlighted the changes it made 
before Miss L renewed the policy, it was reasonable for Great Lakes to assume those 
changes were accepted.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman