DRN-3025261
Complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd recorded a Cifas marker against her name.
Background
Miss F has an account with Monzo. In January 2021, Monzo received two reports from other 
banks. These reports claimed that funds paid into Miss Fs account had been obtained 
fraudulently. Monzo was concerned by those reports and the fact that the funds appeared to 
have been moved out of her account so quickly after theyd been received. Monzo promptly 
closed Miss Fs account and loaded a Cifas marker against her name.
Miss F complained, but Monzo didnt provide her with an explanation for its decision. She 
brought a complaint to this service and it was allocated to an Investigator. The Investigator 
didnt think Monzo shouldve loaded a Cifas marker without first giving Miss F the opportunity 
to explain the origin of the funds. She told the Investigator that there were multiple payments 
from her Monzo account during that period that she didnt make. She said that, whoever had 
made those payments, must have been responsible for the movement of the fraudulent 
funds out of her account.
Miss F told us that shed shared personal information with various individuals on social 
media and that she thinks this might have enabled a third-party to gain control of the 
account. She also speculated that she might have clicked a link in a fraudulent email or text 
message that couldve allowed someone to take over her account.
Monzo didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. It said that it had enough evidence to 
support the Cifas loading without asking Miss F about the origins of the money. It pointed out 
that the payments moving the fraudulent funds out of Miss Fs account had been authorised 
using the Monzo app on her phone, and she hadnt said that shed lost her phone or allowed 
someone else to use it.
Because Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me 
to consider. I emailed Miss F to explain that I intended to come to a different outcome to that 
reached by the investigator for substantially the same reasons as Ive detailed in the 
Findings section of this decision. She didnt respond to my email and so Ive proceeded to 
consider the complaint and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in loading a 
marker with Cifas. The National Fraud Database Principles set a high standard that a firm 
must meet if it wants to load adverse information against a customers name. It says that it in 
order to do so: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police. 
The onus is on Monzo to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive considered the 
evidence provided by both sides and Im satisfied that it has done so here. Miss F has said 
that, even though these funds were paid out of her account, it wasnt her that authorised 
those payments but an unknown third party. I cant know for certain what happened here and 
so I must decide this case on the balance of probabilities. And Im persuaded that the weight 
of the evidence justifies Monzos decision to load a Cifas marker.
Monzo has sent us evidence that shows that these payments from Miss Fs account were 
authorised using a mobile app.  Every handset that has been connected with the account 
has been assigned a unique fingerpint and Monzo has showed us records demonstrating 
that two devices have been connected with the account and that the device changed in 
October 2020. That means that the device that was used to authorise the payments in 
January 2021 was the same device Miss F had used from October 2020 onwards. 
In addition to that, Monzo has provided evidence that shows Miss Fs banking app sent her 
push notifications when the funds were paid into the account. The app was accessed almost 
immediately after those notifications were displayed on her device and a card payment to a 
third-party for the same value was then made almost immediately afterwards.
Theres no clear way that someone couldve made these payments without having access to 
Miss Fs phone. And Miss F has been very clear that she didnt lose her phone or hand it 
over to someone else. She said that her partner might have occasional access to her phone, 
but that would never be without her oversight.
Miss F hasnt been able to explain how a third party couldve accessed her account in this 
way. She has said that she thinks she might have shared her account details with somebody 
else on social media or that she might have accidentally clicked a link in a message sent to 
her from a scammer. However, neither of these things wouldve allowed a third party to take 
control of her Monzo account.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence supports Monzos decision to load a Cifas marker and 
so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for it to be removed.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman