DRN-4150594
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under a buildings 
insurance policy for damage to his garage.
Reference to Mr K includes anything said or done by his representative.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
Mr K noticed a problem with his garage door and got in touch with Fairmead. It 
appointed a surveyor, G, to inspect the problem and carry out investigations.
G thought the damage had been caused by consolidation or settlement of the garage 
 and not subsidence. It said this had occurred over a long period of time and 
commenced prior to the start of the insurance policy. It declined the claim.
Mr K complained but Fairmead didnt change the position. It said there was no 
evidence to show an insured event had caused the damage and the problem had 
been ongoing for a number of years.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the policy covered 
damage caused by settlement, so an insured event had caused the damage. She 
noted the policy excluded damage caused by normal settlement but didnt think it 
would be fair to apply that policy term in these circumstances. She asked Fairmead 
to accept the claim.
Mr K agreed with our investigator. Fairmead didnt. It accepted that normal 
settlement would usually refer to settlement no more than ten years from 
construction  and it had been much longer than that in this case. However, it 
maintained that the damage likely commenced prior to the policy. It said without 
documentation such as a pre-purchase report or maintenance inspections, there was 
no evidence to suggest the damage began after the policy did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the buildings caused by settlement. G said the damage was 
caused by settlement and this hasnt been disputed. So I dont understand why Fairmead 
said the damage wasnt caused by an insured event. Im satisfied it was.
It then falls to Fairmead to accept the claim  or rely on an exclusion to decline it. When 
relying on an exclusion, the onus is on Fairmead to show it would be fair to apply it.
Fairmead seems to have accepted our investigators view that it would be unfair to rely on 
the exclusion for damage caused by normal settlement. It says this phrase refers to the 
type of settlement that commonly occurs soon after construction as a building settles onto 
the supporting ground  and suggested ten years was normal for this process. Its not in 
dispute that the garage was built around 50 years ago and is well outside the timescale for 
normal settlement. So Im satisfied the settlement its experiencing isnt normal and the 
exclusion doesnt apply.
The only other reason Fairmead raised for declining the claim is related to when settlement 
began. The policy excludes any damage occurring or arising from an event before the start 
of the policy. The onus is on Fairmead to show the settlement likely began prior to the policy. 
And even if it can do that, I must also be satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for Fairmead to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
The policy began in mid 2018 and Mr K discovered the garage door problem around three 
years later, making the claim soon after that. To show the settlement problem likely began 
before the policy, Fairmead has relied on Gs view that the consolidation has occurred over 
a long period of time although it hasnt estimated when the problem began. Fairmead says 
that without documents such as a pre-purchase survey or records of periodic maintenance 
inspections, it thinks the problem began before mid 2018. The main reason for this is Mr Ks 
recollection that he was aware of a small crack in the garage floor in 2017, although G 
notes he didnt consider it to be significant at that time.
In Gs initial report it said a pre-purchase survey was irrelevant because its unlikely a 
mortgage would have been granted had the survey identified any subsidence movement. I 
think the same conclusion can be drawn if any other structural movement, such as 
settlement, was identified. So even if it was available, it seems likely the survey would show 
the garage was free of movement at the time the property was bought. But that was in 2011, 
many years prior to the start of the policy. Settlement could have begun between 2011 and 
2018. So Im not persuaded the survey is likely to be determinative here.
Fairmead suggests periodic maintenance inspections may be helpful, although I cant see 
that Mr K has ever been asked if he has any. In any case, I understand Mr K lived in the 
property up until 2018, so theres unlikely to be any reason to record any inspections at or 
prior to that time. After that the property was tenanted and the policy began soon after. And 
once a sign of a problem was discovered, Mr K took prompt action to investigate it and raise 
a claim with Fairmead. He also shared his recollection of the crack from 2017. So again, I 
think any records of inspections, if they existed and have been retained from many years 
ago, are unlikely to add materially to the available evidence.
After discovering the problem with the garage door, Mr K asked a drainage company to 
check the drains. He recalls them saying ground movement had impacted the drains and the 
garage. Their report sets out some problems with the drainage, but it doesnt give any 
commentary about what caused the problems or the timing of them. G later also found 
problems with the drains, but not those close enough to the garage to be thought to be 
contributing to the movement.
So overall, I think the only evidence Fairmead has to rely on is Mr Ks recollection of a crack 
in the garage floor in 2017. He says he didnt consider it to be significant. And given it was 
one small crack in the floor of a garage that was nearly 50 years old, I can understand why. 
In isolation, its not necessarily indicative of a more significant structural problem. G said the 
garage showed very little evidence of structural damage in 2021. I understand the way it 
was constructed means its been able to move without causing significant visible damage. As a result, I dont think there were clear signs of a settlement problem to Mr K until 2021, 
when the garage door became difficult to use and he discovered the door frame was 
distorted. Its possible the crack discovered in 2017 was a sign the settlement began prior to 
the policy started. But thats the only evidence put forward by Fairmead to support its 
position and its not very compelling. And given Mr K wasnt reasonably aware of the extent 
of movement until 2021, well after the policy had started, Im not satisfied it would be fair in 
all the circumstances for Fairmead to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
To put things right, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Fairmead to now accept 
the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to accept the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman