DRN-1397742
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd mis-sold him an accident, 
sickness and unemployment (ASU) insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2010, while in the process of completing a mortgage for their first home, Mr M and his 
partner contacted Personal Touch to obtain a quote for insurance. After carrying out a fact 
find, Personal Touch recommended that Mr M and his partner take out a joint life assurance 
policy. It also recommended that Mr M take out an ASU policy which would pay a monthly 
benefit for up to twelve months in the event that Mr M was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness, or was made redundant. Mr M and his partner agreed to the recommendations.
Shortly afterwards, Mr M and his partner complained that they hadnt received any policy 
documents even though premium payments had already been taken from their account.
In 2011, Personal Touch accepted it had been at fault. It noted that Mr M and his partner had 
since received the documents. It offered to refund the premiums paid for the first two months 
on both policies during which time Mr M and his partner were without policy documentation 
and to add a further amount for distress and inconvenience to bring the total compensation 
to £250. Mr M and his partner accepted this offer.
In 2018, Mr M had cause to check the ASU policy document and realised that pre-existing 
conditions were not covered. He complained to Personal Touch that because he suffered 
from epilepsy this meant the policy was unsuitable.
Personal Touch didnt uphold the complaint. It said it would have expected Mr M and his 
partner to have closely examined the policy documents when these were provided following 
the earlier complaint. It further said that when Mr M and his partner accepted the 
compensation in 2011, they signed a statement absolving Personal Touch of liability in 
respect of any other issue relating to the sale of the policies.
Mr M was unhappy at Personal Touchs response and referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
"The evidence shows that Personal Touch carried out a fact find which revealed that Mr M 
and his partner had a need for life assurance. It was noted that Mr M suffered from epilepsy 
and that this could affect the life assurance premium. The fact find separately revealed that 
Mr M had a need to protect against the risk of loss of income due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
The adviser recommended that Mr M take out an ASU policy which would provide a monthly 
benefit of £600 for up to twelve months in the event that he was unable to work for at least 
thirty days because of accident or sickness, or was made involuntarily unemployed.I recognise that the policy would exclude benefit if the claim related to a pre-existing 
condition. This not unusual in such a policy and I think it unlikely that Mr M would have been 
able to find a policy which didnt have such a clause. Mr Ms epilepsy fell under the policys 
definition of a pre-existing condition, meaning that he couldnt have made a successful claim 
for benefit if his work absence or unemployment was due to this. However, I dont consider 
that this necessarily meant the recommendation was unsuitable. The policy would have 
provided cover for accident or sickness which wasnt due to Mr Ms epilepsy, as well as for 
unemployment provided this wasnt linked to his condition. Mr M may well have seen this as 
worthwhile cover despite its limitation. I further note that in the seven years since taking out 
the cover Mr M apparently had no absence of thirty days or more due to his epilepsy.
Nonetheless, I would have expected the adviser to have drawn Mr Ms attention to the pre-
existing conditions clause so that he could make an informed decision as to whether to take 
out the policy. Personal Touch has provided a copy of a letter from the adviser to Mr M in 
which he outlined his recommendation. The letter stated the following:
Any claims due to or arising from any of the following will not be covered:
Pre-existing medical conditions. If you have a sickness, disease, condition, or injury 
from which you have suffered or for which you have consulted or been treated by a 
registered medical practitioner in the 12 months prior to the commencement of the 
insurance (or the date on which your cover was last extended, whichever is the later), 
then that particular condition, or any claim attributable to it is excluded, until you have 
been clear of it for a continuous 24 month period prior to the commencement of 
claim.
 
I consider that this is clear and Mr M should have understood that, given he saw a consultant 
about his epilepsy on an annual basis, he wouldnt be covered if his claim related to that 
condition.
I note that Mr M considers that this letter is dated before the discussion with the adviser had 
even taken place and disputes that he ever received the letter. However, I consider the date 
of the letter is consistent with the other evidence and I have no reasonable grounds to 
believe it wasnt sent.
In light of the above, I am inclined to think that Mr M was made aware the policy wouldnt 
cover him for any claim related to his epilepsy but that he made the decision to take out the 
policy in any case because he felt that it was still useful.
Even if I were minded to conclude that Mr M hadnt received the advisers letter of 
recommendation, I have to take into account that he and his partner made a successful 
complaint to Personal Touch a short time later on the grounds that they hadnt received their 
policy documents. By the time Personal Touch issued its final response letter on this 
complaint in January 2011, it noted that Mr M had since received the policy documents from 
the insurer. Given that he had specifically requested it, I would have expected Mr M to have 
read the policy document, which is only six pages long, when it was received. This would 
have made him aware that he wasnt covered for his epilepsy. 
Furthermore, with its final response, Personal Touch also enclosed a copy of the advisers 
letter of recommendation. If Mr M hadnt received this the first time, I would have expected 
him to now read this and thus become aware of the pre-existing conditions clause. 
Mr M didnt choose to cancel the policy after receiving the policy document and a copy of the 
letter of recommendation. This suggests to me that he was happy with the cover the policy provided. This being the case, I dont consider it is reasonable for him to say over seven 
years later that the policy was mis-sold. I therefore consider that Personal Touch is not 
obliged to refund his premiums."
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr M didn't accept my provisional decision. He disputed that he had spoken to 
Personal Touch's adviser before the adviser issued the letter of recommendation for the 
policy on 23 June 2010. He questioned whether a copy of the letter of recommendation had 
indeed been enclosed with the final response letter issued in January 2011. He said the 
adviser had told him the policy was tailored to meet his needs and this was clearly wrong 
because it didn't cover his epilepsy. He said this made the policy of no use to him. 
Personal Touch did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
I consider it unlikely that the adviser would have issued his letter of recommendation in June 
2010 unless he had spoken to Mr M about his situation. It seems that Mr M's partner then 
contacted the adviser explaining that she would like to discuss life assurance and so the 
adviser then spoke to both of them before eventually also making a separate 
recommendation that they should take out a joint life assurance policy.
The final response letter in January 2011 related to both the ASU policy and the joint life 
assurance policy. The letter noted that Mr M and his partner said they hadn't received the 
recommendation letters and that these were therefore enclosed. I'm satisfied that this would 
therefore have included the June 2010 letter of recommendation for the ASU policy, so even 
if Mr M didn't receive this initially, he was certainly in receipt of it by January 2011.
I consider that, even though the policy didn't cover Mr M's epilepsy, this doesn't necessarily 
mean the adviser didn't make a recommendation tailored to his needs. The adviser 
concluded that Mr M needed short-term protection for loss of income in the event of 
accident, sickness or unemployment and recommended a policy and a level of benefit to 
meet that need. I have already explained that I consider it unlikely that Mr M could have 
obtained such a policy which didn't exclude pre-existing conditions.
I'm satisfied that the policy document made clear that pre-existing conditions weren't 
covered and that the adviser drew attention to this in his letter of recommendation. Even if 
Mr M didn't receive this letter when it was first sent, he was certainly in receipt of it in 
January 2011. I don't consider that the exclusion of pre-existing conditions, including Mr M's 
epilepsy, necessarily meant that the policy was worthless because it would provide cover in 
other situations. I consider the fact that Mr M didn't choose to cancel the policy in January 
2011 suggests that he decided it was worth keeping. I therefore consider that there is no 
reasonable ground for concluding that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman