DRN-2814561
The complaint
Mr B complained that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Savvy as follows: 
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
112/11/2020 Not paid 12 £1000 £166.66
Mr B said that if Savvy had asked to see his bank statements before lending to him it 
wouldve realised that he couldnt afford the loan and that lending to him was irresponsible. 
Mr B didnt feel that Savvy did enough to verify the information he supplied. He is also 
concerned that paying for this loan has put him in a worse financial position and that it is 
putting him under severe stress  at a time that is very difficult for him for health reasons. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, she thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr B for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided, or the information Savvy 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Savvy shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr B had declared.
She felt the loan had been fairly provided. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Another adjudicator took over the complaint. 
She also told Mr B that in her view, although he had sent us bank statements showing he 
may have had some problems managing his money, she couldnt see that Savvy wouldve 
known this. And she didnt think a proportionate check wouldve required Savvy to ask for 
more information to verify what Mr B had told Savvy at the time.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators views. 
Mainly he said that he has provided proof that the loan was unaffordable for him and he feels 
that our adjudicators havent looked properly at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Im sorry Mr B feels that our adjudicators didnt investigate the complaint properly. Id like to 
reassure Mr B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our adjudicators. Ill explain why I say this.
Savvy provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
And, for a first loan, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive listened carefully to the call recording that Mr B had with Savvy when he applied for this 
loan and he provided information about his financial situation and answered questions it 
asked him.
Before lending to Mr B, Savvy asked Mr B for information about his financial situation. Savvy 
checked Mr Bs employment and the amount of his monthly pay by looking at screenshots 
showing his salary payments. It asked him about his outgoings, including what he was 
spending on other loans and whether he was spending any money on gambling or the 
lottery. Using this information, Savvy was able to see what his monthly budget typically 
looked like. And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. 
Savvy also did a credit check which showed Mr B had two credit cards with available credit 
and a total balance out of around £1449. Savvy asked Mr B about his credit cards and made 
allowance for him making monthly repayments on these accounts when assessing if he 
could afford to borrow.Savvy gathered information that enabled it to work out how much money Mr B would have 
available to spend after paying his normal monthly outgoings  it calculated that his monthly 
surplus was £720. So it was satisfied that the loan repayments of £166.66 per month for this 
loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr B.
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Savvy had on record for Mr B, including what Mr B told Savvy, this didnt point to the loan 
being unaffordable for Mr B. 
After taking into account all the information Savvy had gathered, it looked like Mr B shouldve 
had more than £550 left each month after paying for this loan. 
Im sorry that Mr B had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Bs actual circumstances werent 
fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Savvy obtained. 
But wed expect Savvy to decide Mr Bs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time  in other words, what we would expect Savvy to 
find out from doing proportionate checks at the time of the loan application. 
Ive thought carefully about what I think proportionate checks should have involved when 
Mr B applied to Savvy for this loan. 
As this was the first loan Mr B had taken out with Savvy, Mr B didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Savvy to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan, given that it looks like his take home pay was around 
£1,445. And Mr B was planning to pay the loan back over 12 months  which, broadly 
speaking, in Mr Bs circumstances was a reasonably foreseeable period of time. 
I think there were some indications that Mr Bs application to borrow this amount of money 
over this loan term was potentially at odds with what he had told Savvy about his financial 
situation. But Savvy did specifically ask Mr B what the money was for and why he was 
choosing to take out an expensive loan rather than use his disposable income or savings 
that hed mentioned. Mr B explained that he was essentially using his own money to save for 
an expensive holiday and that it was tied up in long term investments and trust funds which 
required 3 months notice if he wanted to get the money out  so he preferred to borrow in 
this way.
Having listened to Mr B explaining all this to Savvy, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Savvy to accept what he said at face value and without doing further checks to verify what 
Mr B had said. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had gathered, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. Although Mr B feels strongly that Savvy shouldve done more or 
better checks, I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances wouldve required 
Savvy to probe any more deeply into Mr Bs finances or ask Mr B to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances.In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Savvy to have asked to see the credit report or 
bank statements that Mr B has sent me. And since that wasnt information that Mr B told 
Savvy about, then Savvy couldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that Savvy 
shouldve known about it. 
In coming to this decision I've taken into account what Mr B has said about his other credit at 
the time. But I've seen the results of the credit check that Savvy carried out and theres 
nothing particularly adverse that I think wouldve been enough to put a responsible lender off 
providing him with this loan. Its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small 
portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also 
aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference 
agencies. So, this may explain any differences.
In this case, I dont think that Savvy did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr B. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Savvy has acted in any other way that isnt fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr B has found the way Savvy has been taking payments for the loan upsetting. And he told 
us that Savvy hasnt started the process of wiping out the loan or spoken to him about 
reducing the payments.
Our adjudicator explained to Mr B that Savvy told us that Mr B only recently made it aware of 
his change in circumstances and that this was being dealt with under its forbearance 
procedure.
Our adjudicator has checked again with Savvy and it has told us that it has asked him for 
either a letter from his doctor or a duly completed and signed DMHF form. I understand this 
to be a form Mr B can ask his GP to sign (it shouldnt cost anything for this). This form will 
act as evidence and support Mr B in seeking help with paying back debt. 
Savvy has said that once it has the information it can look at any change in circumstances 
and respond in line with its forbearance procedures  which I understand to mean that it will 
look at what can be done to assist Mr B. And this seems a fair response to me. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Savvy to be able to make a properly informed decision 
without the information it needs to do that  and its up to Mr B to provide evidence it has 
reasonably requested. 
Looked at overall, I dont think I can fairly say that Savvy has acted in a way that isnt fair 
and reasonable. 
So I havent seen anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable  for me to award any redress. 
Id take this opportunity to remind Savvy that if Mr B needs further time to pay what he owes 
then it should treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions.
And if Mr B would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
I am sorry that Mr B is going through a difficult time. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment to him. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman