DRN-3460977
The complaint and background
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC ought to have done more to protect him from 
falling victim to what he claims was an investment scam. 
In short, Mr Ss complaint concerns a series of online card payments, amounting to around 
£12,000, which took place in October and November 2019. They were all paid to the same 
business from his Barclays account. Mr S says this firm, Tradefred (as it was named at the 
time), used bullying, manipulation and corrupt tactics to entice him to invest. 
Mr S later complained to Barclays that hed been scammed by Tradefred. Barclays 
recognised that it ought to have dealt with these concerns sooner  and so awarded him 
£150 compensation for the delay in investigating his complaint. But in terms of the disputed 
transactions themselves, Barclays didnt agree it had done anything wrong. Ultimately, the 
banks response was that it was unable to refund any of the payments. 
Upon bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators agreed that Barclays 
shouldnt be held accountable for Mr Ss loss. Having considered the evidence about 
Tradefred, she wasnt convinced it was operating a scam at the time Mr S authorised these 
payments. Because Mr S disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the compensation element of this case has already been agreed between the parties, 
whats left for me to decide is whether Barclays ought to refund Mr S on account of him 
suffering a financial loss because of a scam.  
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do 
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm  including fraud and 
scams. Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Barclays has a 
regulatory obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial 
crime. Still, this must be balanced with Barclays other duties. Theres a provision that 
delaying a payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr S 
made to Tradefred. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would 
not necessarily constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, 
there is a general prohibition that Barclays should not be providing investment advice 
pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that Barclays could have warned Mr S about the dangers of 
falling victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were
sufficient grounds for suspecting Tradefred was fraudulent; meaning that Barclays could 
have delayed the payments while concerns about Tradefred were discussed with Mr S.
Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that Tradefred was operating a scam when these 
payments were made in late 2019 in order to expect Barclays to have intervened. When 
determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders may use sales 
methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when 
considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing return on an investment 
thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving such investment firms are 
in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be viewed as 
unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high 
legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no
such warnings about Tradefred at the time these payments were made in 2019. Rather, the 
evidence demonstrates that Mr Ss money went to a legitimate business, that was actually 
regulated in another jurisdiction at the material time (and continues to be so now, albeit 
under a different trading name). Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the 
intention of scamming consumers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory 
oversight. To that end, Im satisfied theres strong evidence Tradefred wasnt fraudulent or 
operating a scam.
So, while Ive paid due regard to the material Mr S has presented about Tradefred, Im not 
convinced it was the perpetrator of investment fraud  and this has been confirmed by 
authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various jurisdictions. It follows that I 
cannot safely conclude that Barclays ought to refund these payments.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman