DRN-2872431
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was misled as to the interest rate applied to a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer that he had 
taken to purchase a car.
The complaint has been brought by a friend of Mr L on his behalf, but for ease of reference I 
will refer only to Mr L as the agreement is in his name.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr L entered into a five-year fixed sum loan with Santander to purchase a car. 
The car cost around £22,500 and there was a further amount of about £2,300 negative 
equity added to the loan amount from the settling of an earlier credit agreement for another 
car.
Mr L says he was told by the dealership that the interest rate for the loan was 8.45% fixed for 
the duration of the loan. However, after two years of making payments, Mr L says he 
became concerned that, despite making regular payments, he hadnt paid as much off the 
principal amount as he thought he should have. He queried the cost of the loan with 
Santander.
Mr L says that when he spoke with Santander, he learnt that the loan had an APR of 15.9%. 
He complained to Santander and said that he hadnt been told that the true cost of the loan 
was considerably higher than the 8.45% annual interest rate that had been quoted. He 
asked for the interest to be recalculated in line with the 8.45% interest rate hed been 
informed about.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint as it said it hadnt misinformed him as to the cost 
of the credit agreement. Santander said the 8.45% quoted was the annual flat rate of interest 
and the APR had been set at 15.9%. It said that both these figures appeared on the fixed 
sum loan agreement signed by Mr L.
Santander also said that the flat rate of interest was charged cumulatively on the balance of 
the agreement and therefore a higher proportion of the interest was paid at the start of the 
agreement when the balance was higher. As the balance reduced so would the interest 
proportion of the monthly payments made by Mr L. It said this explained how Mr Ls 
payments had been allocated. 
Santander provided Mr L with its calculations for the APR figure and an amortisation 
statement showing how the interest had been distributed over his payments under the 
agreement.
Mr L was unhappy at Santanders response. He said that the details of his payments showed 
that he was paying a higher rate of interest on the loan than 8.45% per year. Santander said 
that its calculations were correct, and the rate of interest was applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act.
Mr L complained to this service. He said he wouldnt have taken the fixed sum loan 
agreement out if hed known the real interest rate being applied was 15.45%. Mr L said hed 
had been misled as to the interest rate as Santander had repeatedly told him it was 8.45% in 
both phone calls and correspondence.
Mr L said that Santander had supplied him with the formula as to how the APR had been 
calculated but he hadnt been given any of this information at the time hed take out the 
credit agreement which was unfair.  
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He said the total cost 
of the credit, the annual rate of interest applied, and the APR rate were all shown on the 
fixed sum loan agreement, as was how the interest would be applied and how an early 
settlement would be applied. Our investigator said he thought that Mr L had enough 
information to make an informed decision. 
Our investigator also said that looking at the information provided he was satisfied that the 
APR rate had been calculated in accordance with the regulations.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view. He said that Santander had failed to tell him the 
real interest rate being applied to the loan agreement and has continued to insist it was 
8.45% which wasnt correct. He said the rate of interest which had been applied was 
confusing and queried why the formula applied for calculating the APR hadnt been provided 
when he took out the loan.
Mr L also said he thought it was unfair that Santander hadnt provided its paperwork about 
his account to this service within the time limit specified by the investigator. 
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is unhappy at the amount of interest hes paying under his fixed sum loan with 
Santander. He feels very strongly that he has been misled about the interest rate that has 
been applied. 
Santander, as a credit provider, must comply with the Consumer Credit Act and all the 
relevant regulations. This means that key financial information must be provided to the 
consumer before they enter into the contract. This information must be understandable and 
include the following
The amount of credit
The credit period
The total amount payable
The interest rate
The APR
Any fees/charges
Information about early settlement.
Looking at a copy of the signed agreement, I can see on page one that the amount of credit 
is shown as around £25,000 and that the total charge for credit is about £10,500 making a 
total payable amount of just over £35,500. The agreement says that the rate of interest on the amount of credit is 8.45% which is fixed for the duration of the agreement. Underneath 
the interest rate it says the APR is 15.9% and that this has been calculated assuming the 
agreement remains valid. Its also says there are 60 consecutive payments of around £590 
that will commence one month after the date of the agreement. So, I think the agreement 
contained the necessary information for Mr L and that this was provided in a clear and 
understandable format. 
Mr L says that the dealership told him that the interest rate for the agreement was 8.45% 
and that Santander has repeatedly given him the same information as to the applicable 
interest rate. But he says the true rate of interest being applied is 15.90%.
I dont know what was said to Mr L by the dealership, and where evidence is missing then I 
have to decide what I think is the most likely thing to have happened. Ive seen that, as set 
out in the agreement, the interest rate applied to the principal amount was 8.45% per year 
and not 15.9% for the duration of the agreement. And I cant reasonably say that when 
Santander quoted the 8.45% rate as the interest rate that this was misleading or incorrect.
I think it is important to note that the APR figure for a credit agreement is usually higher than 
the interest rate. The APR figure is calculated on the whole cost of the borrowing as it 
includes not only the interest rate thats been applied but also any additional compulsory 
charges that are included in the agreement. As the fixed sum loan agreement is a regulated 
agreement under the Consumer Credit Act then The Consumer Credit (Total Charge for 
Credit) Regulations 2010 provides a formula that must be used by Santander to calculate the 
APR rate. Looking at the calculation that Santander sent to Mr L I think it has used this 
formula correctly.
I dont agree with Mr L that this formula is hidden from consumers as it is set out in 
legislation. But I wouldnt expect a credit provider to refer to this formula when discussing the 
cost of borrowing as I dont think how the APR is reached would assist a consumer in 
deciding whether the cost of borrowing was affordable and suitable. What is important is the 
rate of the APR, as this allows a consumer to properly compare the cost of borrowing 
amongst other credit providers to decide whether a financial product is suitable or not. And 
thats why a regulated credit provider must always supply the APR rate to a consumer before 
an agreement is entered in to. Ive seen the APR figure of 15.9% is shown clearly on Mr Ls 
agreement. 
Mr L says the cost of borrowing under this agreement wasnt properly explained to him but 
Im afraid I dont agree. As not only does the agreement show the APR figure, but it also sets 
out the total charge for the credit amounts to around £10,500 on top of the actual cost of the 
car and the negative equity. It also sets out the monthly payment that Mr L needs to pay. I 
dont think I can reasonably say that Mr L wasnt told how much it would cost to borrow the 
cost of the car and clear the negative equity.
As the APR figure is on the agreement then I think its more likely than not that the 
dealership would have told Mr L this figure and also the interest rate. But even if it didnt, Mr 
L was provided with these figures in the agreement. I think its reasonable to have expected 
Mr L to have read the agreement before signing it. I also think its reasonable to assume that 
at the time he entered into the agreement Mr L was content with the total amount he was 
borrowing and the monthly payments he would need to make.
I appreciate English isnt Mr Ls first language but if he had difficulty understanding the 
agreement then I think its reasonable to say he could have asked for more time to look at 
the figures. The information as to the cost of the agreement had all been provided and was 
easily accessible in the agreement. Looking at the information that was provided to Mr L, I think it was sufficient for him to be 
able to make an informed decision as to whether this agreement was suitable. He was 
provided with all the required information including the total cost of the borrowing, the length 
of the agreement and the monthly payments. Im not persuaded that Mr L would have made 
a different decision regarding the entering into the credit agreement for the car.
Ive also seen that Mr L feels that Santander was given an unfair advantage by providing the 
information it had about his agreement after the original deadline set by our investigator, but 
again Im afraid I disagree with this view. This is because we are an informal dispute 
resolution service and my role is to make fair and impartial decisions weighing up the 
information from both parties. I need to ensure I have as much information as I think is 
necessary to make an informed decision about what has happened. This means that 
sometimes its necessary to give a party extra time to provide that information even when the 
other party has already sent in everything that they needed too. While I appreciate a party 
cant be given unlimited time to provide its evidence, here, I dont think Santander took an 
unreasonable amount of time to provide its file particularly in light of the impact of Covid-19.   
So, for the reasons set out above and although I appreciate it will be of disappointment to Mr 
L, I am not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman