DRN-3393586
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Cowgills Wealth Limited gave her unsuitable advice to transfer 
deferred pension benefits from her Occupational Pension Scheme to a personal pension. 
When receiving advice from Cowgills, Mrs S was being represented by her husband, Mr S. 
She has also been represented by Mr S during the course of this complaint. All references to 
Mrs S will include information provided by Mr S.
Your text here
What happened
In 2015 Mrs S received advice from Cowgills about her pension arrangements. At the time of 
the advice, the Cowgills adviser (the adviser) produced a number of documents including a 
Confidential Financial Review (the fact find) dated 6 November 2015 and a Financial 
Planning Report dated 12 November 2015 (the suitability report). It should be noted that 
these documents were in joint names as the advice related to both Mrs S and Mr S.
In the fact find Mrs Ss circumstances were noted as follows:
She was 52 years old, married with three children.
She wasnt employed but the total household income was £200,000 per year which 
was from her husbands earnings and income from buy-to-let (BTL) properties.
She was a non-smoker and in good health.
She was living in a jointly owned property valued at £350,000 with £210,000 
remaining on the mortgage.
She jointly owned three BTL properties with a total value of £375,000 and total 
mortgages of £233,000.
Mrs S had deferred pension benefits from her previous employer under its Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS). Other than the OPS and state pension benefits, Mrs Ss had no 
other pension provision. However, it was noted that Mrs Ss husband, had sufficient pension 
provision to cover the household expected expenditure in retirement. And Mr and Mrs S 
jointly owned several BTL properties which were expected to bring in an income each year.
In the suitability report, the adviser noted the reason Mrs S was seeking advice was: You 
have been keeping a close eye on the new pension freedoms and the change in law to 
death benefits and would like to take advice as to whether it may be suitable for you to 
transfer these defined benefit schemes.
The adviser also made the following points: [Mrs S] is in a similar situation [as Mr S] where 
there will be little requirement for a guaranteed income and you deem flexibility of income to 
rank higher in your priorities. As [Mr Ss] retirement income and buy-to-let portfolio will more 
than cover the ongoing expenditure, you see little point in having a small income paid 
monthly, where ad hoc income may be more suitable. As a moderate investor, you expect 
the growth of your investments to beat inflation over the longer term and if you do not require 
income on a regular basis, will have increased potential for higher growth on the capital.
The adviser went on to note that Mrs S expected her expenditure to be lower in retirement 
than currently and believed the rental income for her BTL portfolio will cover the bills, with 
the state pension covering any other necessary expenditure. The adviser said Mrs S was 
only expecting the pension income to be required for discretionary spending purposes. As 
such the adviser said:
flexibility is more important to each of you than a secured income as you expect to be 
more than comfortable in your retirement. You will likely take some form of regular income, 
but think this will be reduced compared to those on offer from the defined benefit schemes 
with the remainder of income being taken on an ad hoc basis. As such, the flexibility of 
income drawdown will allow you to benefit both from a tax planning basis and also from the 
fact that less income means more money remaining invested and therefore potentially higher 
growth on the funds.
The adviser noted that Mrs S left her OPS in December 2012 with defined pension benefits. 
The OPS normal retirement age was 60 and the estimated pension at retirement was £9,207 
per year, or a Mrs S could receive a reduced amount of £6,647 plus a tax free cash 
entitlement of £38,049. On death before retirement, a spouses pension of £3,800 a year 
was payable and on death after retirement, a 50% spouses pension was payable. The 
adviser said that Mrs Ss pension benefits could be transferred, and a Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) had been offered to her by the OPS of £218,742. 
Mrs S completed an attitude to risk questionnaire (the ATR questionnaire) with Cowgills on 
10 November 2015. Based on her responses, the adviser said he considered Mrs S had a 
moderate attitude to risk which he noted meant: You are prepared to take a moderate 
amount of investment risk in order to increase the chance of achieving a positive return. 
Capital protection is less important to you than achieving a better return on the investment. A 
typical moderate investor will usually invest in a variety of assets to obtain diversification.
In terms of Mrs Ss capacity for loss, the adviser noted that her husband earned very well 
and that she was able to withstand some risk of loss to her pension funds.
The adviser noted a Transfer Value Analysis (the TVAS) report had been discussed during 
the advice process. He said in terms of Mrs Ss OPS the critical yield was 4.67%. However, 
the adviser noted that the TVAS had been based on a plan with lower charges. And that 
when taking into account the higher charges of the plan he was recommending he was 
increasing the critical yield figure to 6.27%. The adviser didnt comment on whether he 
thought this critical yield was high or not but in Mr Ss case, he noted the critical yield of 
5.9% was on the high side. But he said the critical yield was acceptable because the growth 
rate before charges, was achievable over the long term. 
After recommending Mrs S transfer her benefits to a SIPP, the adviser noted this should be 
done for the following reasons:
The new plan would provide the opportunity to release benefits by way of income 
withdrawal in the future as determined by Mrs S. 
She would be able to benefit from the more flexible death benefits.
She would be able to take out an increased amount of tax free cash.
She would have more flexibility with regards to tax planning.
She would be able to take her tax free cash and not be required to take an income.
Given her attitude to risk, the transfer values and the revaluation rates applicable to 
the transfer values, the yields required to match the OPS benefits were achievable. Given the fact she would not be buying an annuity, or securing an escalating income, 
and she was happy to remain invested in retirement, there was less pressure on 
achieving a value at a certain date and this made the transfer more feasible still.
The adviser went on to recommend a Standard Life Wrap Self Invested Pension Plan (the 
SIPP) because he said Mrs S would be able to access a wider selection of funds and 
investments. He also said she would be able to draw benefits directly from her SIPP by way 
of income withdrawal and that she would benefit from more flexible death benefits compared 
to the defined benefit arrangements. Mrs S accepted Cowgills recommendations and 
instructed it to complete the transfer.
In June and November 2017, various fund switches were made from Mrs Ss SIPP after she 
expressed some concerns about the performance of the funds she was invested in. In June 
2018, after reaching the age of 55, Mrs S discussed taking some of her benefits. Whilst she 
didnt have a need for an income, she wanted funds to cover servicing on her outstanding 
mortgages. So, the adviser recommended she withdrew a total of £25,000 from her pension. 
Mrs S subsequently complained to Cowgills about its advice to transfer from her OPS. She 
questioned the suitability of the advice and whether the fund she was recommended to 
invest in was capable of achieving the requisite growth needed to match her OPS benefits. 
Mrs S disagreed with the analysis that she was a moderate risk investor, instead believing 
she was a low risk investor due to having no investment experience. 
Cowgills rejected Mrs Ss complaint. In summary, it made the following points:
Its recommendations were based on a detailed assessment of Mrs Ss risk profile 
and her objectives. It considered its recommendations were suitable for Mrs S. 
The recommendation to transfer was suitable to achieve Mrs Ss objectives including 
to give her increased flexibility. This gave her the option to pay off her BTL 
mortgages and leave her assets unencumbered without the requirement to 
commence the OPS income or suffering an early retirement factor should this have 
been accessed before her normal retirement date.
Clear discussions were held around her future retirement plans and the potential to 
lose a secure, increasing income in retirement.
A clear assessment was made based on the gains made in flexibility against the loss 
of security. This was key in assessing whether the transfer away from a defined 
benefit scheme was suitable for Mrs S.
It was evidenced that her retirement income would be derived from various sources 
and once her mortgages were cleared, she would be very likely not to require a 
secure source of guaranteed income.
There was an enhanced position on death benefits and an ability for income to be 
generated without reductions applied to the surviving spouse.
Mrs Ss capacity for loss was at a level that she could absorb some market losses 
and still be in a financial position to meet her proposed expenditure requirements. 
Mrs S accepted the investment risk and her risk profile.
Mrs S is disappointed with the returns from her SIPP which is her main complaint. 
But this risk was clearly set out to her during the advice process.
The returns that were possible werent guaranteed but they were achievable.
Our investigator didnt think Cowgills had shown that the advice had been in Mrs Ss best 
interest, for the following reasons (in summary):There was no immediate need for her to access her tax free cash when she reached 
the age of 55. The mortgage on the family home was being overpaid by £1,000 each 
month, and the rental income from the BTL properties exceeded the mortgages. 
Mrs S had said she was a low risk investor and she had concerns about the risk she 
was taking with her pension benefits by transferring.
Mrs S had the option to take tax free cash under the OPS aged 60 and then receive 
a guaranteed regular income for life  there was no evidence that a lump sum 
payment or income was needed any earlier than this.
Flexible access to pension withdrawals wasnt a good enough reason to give up 
valuable guaranteed benefits  the tax free cash under the OPS was sufficient to 
meet this need for flexibility.
The decision to transfer could have been taken at any point prior to the age of 60  
Mrs S should have been advised to have at least deferred the decision until there 
was a need to access the cash.
The advice was given during the period our service was publishing discount rates on 
our website for use in loss assessments of this kind. This was a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable  the discount 
rate in Mrs Ss case was 3.8% but the critical yield was higher than this at 6.27%. So, 
it was very unlikely Mrs Ss fund would grow sufficiently to provide her with a means 
to purchase an equivalent income to her OPS in retirement.
Mrs S wasnt recorded to be in poor health or as having any concerns over low 
mortality. So, the enhanced death benefit didnt necessarily outweigh losing the 
guarantees that came with her OPS.
The investigator recommended that Cowgills undertake a redress calculation in accordance 
with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authoritys) guidance, on the basis that Mrs S 
would have retained her deferred benefits in the OPS. 
Mrs S accepted the investigators view. Cowgills disagreed with the investigators 
conclusions. In summary, as well as reiterating the points it made above, it also noted that:
Death benefits werent the sole reason for the transfer. There was also a benefit to 
repaying the debt on the BTL portfolio at the earliest date and transferring them into 
Mrs Ss name for tax purposes  this was not possible until the debt was 
reduced/removed due to Mrs Ss lack of earnings. This was a point of discussion 
from the start and indeed Mrs S did access SIPP tax free cash at the earliest point for 
precisely this reason.
It conceded the investment returns hadnt be as high as Mrs S hoped and thought 
this was her main reason for bringing the complaint, but Cowgills said this didnt 
make the advice unsuitable.
Mrs S had agreed with her categorisation as moderate risk and at no point did she 
say she was low risk. The advice would have been different if this had been the case. 
Mrs S didnt disagree with the risk profile or suggest that her risk profile should be 
anything other than agreed.
The risks associated with the investments as opposed to staying within a defined 
benefit scheme was fully discussed.
A decision to stay with the defined benefit pension until normal retirement age would 
not be risk free. If the transfer value at the point of advice was sufficient to meet her 
objectives, which Cowgills feels it was, then deferring the decision to transfer is 
equally risky as providing advice to transfer if there are reasons enough to do so.
Mrs S wasnt planning on taking an annuity, so its not fair to compare the returns 
with the critical yield. Nor to compare the critical yield with the discount rates for the 
same reason.Cowgills questioned why the investigator used poor health to suggest the objective to 
avoid total loss of pension on second death was less than sufficient. Had it advised 
against transfer and subsequently, Mrs Ss health deteriorated, it wouldve been 
much more problematic to transfer at that point.
Our investigator addressed Cowgills further submissions. But he said it hadnt changed his 
view. Cowgills asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Cowgills has provided a very detailed response to this service. We are an informal 
dispute resolution service and I am not required to address every point raised. I have instead 
focussed on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint.
The starting point for this decision is the regulators guidance under COBS 19.1.16, in 
relation to occupational pension transfers. This says: When advising a retail client who is, or 
is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion for optout 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
The action taken by Cowgills to transfer Mrs S from her defined benefit arrangements with 
her previous employer has resulted in the loss of the guarantees the OPS provided and 
means she faces additional investment risk in the new scheme. So, given the starting 
position is the transfer was not in Mrs Ss best interests, I would expect to see sufficiently 
compelling reasons for her to be advised to relinquish her guaranteed benefits.
The critical yield figure, which was set out in the TVAS and the suitability reports, was merely 
the figure to provide the same benefits Mrs S was giving up. So, it had to appear likely that 
Mrs Ss fund could grow by more than just the critical yield for her to improve on the financial 
benefits that she was giving up. 
The TVAS report showed that the investment return (critical yield) required to match the 
OPS at retirement (at age 60) was 7.02% per year for a Scottish Widows Retirement 
Account if no tax free lump sum was taken. And where a tax free lump sum was taken with 
a reduced pension, the critical yield was 4.3%. But, Mrs S was advised to transfer to a 
Standard Life SIPP which had higher fees. So, this impacted on the critical yield in that it 
needed to be increased.
In the suitability report the adviser said: It was also important to note that the charges for the 
contract in the TVAS report were lower than those on the scheme I would recommend (given 
your investment preferences) and so we should add a further charge of around 1.6% onto 
the critical yield to take this into account. The adviser went on to say that in Mrs Ss case, 
the increased charges meant the critical yield for her Standard Life SIPP was increased from 
4.67% to 6.27%. But these figures related to Mr Ss pension plan. The TVAS report 
produced in respect of Mrs S gave a critical yield figure of 4.3% in the event of the tax free 
cash being taken. So, with 1.6% added, the critical yield for Mrs Ss SIPP was 5.9%.
As noted by our investigator, the advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on its website, for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. In Mrs Ss case the discount 
rate for the year in question was 3.8%.
So, even based on the lowest critical yield of 5.9% that would have been needed for Mrs S to 
equal what she would be entitled to under her OPS, this was still higher than the published 
discount rate of 3.8%. And the adviser stated in the report that the critical yield of 5.9% was on 
the high side. Mrs S wanted her investments to be managed in a moderate way, so I dont 
think its likely she would have been able to achieve a critical yield on the high side that would 
have been needed to match her OPS benefits. 
Cowgills says that Mrs Ss risk rating wasnt for a low risk investor and if it had been, the 
advice would have been different. But from what I can see, even if I accept Mrs S as a 
moderate risk investor, she was at the lower end of this scale. This is demonstrated by the 
ATR questionnaire she completed on which Cowgills based her rating. For example, Mrs S 
answered these questions as follows:
What amount of risk do you feel you have taken with your past financial decisions? 
Mrs S replied: small. 
To reach my financial goal I prefer an investment which is safe and grows slowly but 
steadily, even if it means lower growth overall. Mrs S replied: I tend to agree with 
this statement. 
I am looking for high investment growth. I am willing to accept the possibility of 
greater losses to achieve this. Mrs S replied: I tend to disagree with this statement.
Imagine that you have some money to invest and a choice of two investment products, 
which option would you choose? Mrs S replied: A mixture of low average annual 
return but almost no risk of loss and high average annual return but some risk of loss.
So, taking into account Mrs Ss attitude to risk, I dont think the types of investments that 
were most suitable for her, were likely to achieve more than the discount rate of 3.8%. 
Therefore, even when using the most favourable critical yield of 5.9%, Mrs S was likely going 
to be financially significantly worse off by transferring out of her OPS.
Cowgills says Mrs S had quite a high capacity for loss, and therefore, the investment returns 
shed need to match her OPS benefits were achievable. However, the benefits from the OPS 
made up the majority of her retirement provision. Even though I appreciate she had 
investments in BTL properties and her husbands income was significant, I dont think its 
likely she had the capacity to take substantial risks with her pension benefits.
Cowgills says the critical yield wasnt the significant factor in Mrs Ss case, as this assumed 
the benefits would be taken in the form of an annuity at age 60. Cowgills said Mrs S wasnt 
planning on taking an annuity due to her other sources of income. But, Ive not seen any 
detailed discussions with Mrs S about what income she would actually require in retirement. 
As Cowgills says, it didnt meet with Mrs S but rather conducted its advice through her 
representative and in writing. So, its unclear how Cowgills could come to an accurate 
conclusion about her income needs in retirement. 
In any event, I accept the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer. And even if I thought the critical yield was achievable, it wouldnt 
have been enough for Cowgills to have recommended that Mrs S transfer her OPS benefits. 
Cowgills had to demonstrate there were further benefits in transferring.
Cowgills says its advice was suitable based on, amongst other things, Mrs Ss intentions to access her pension benefits to pay off her mortgages. Cowgills points to the fact that Mrs S 
withdrew tax free cash from the SIPP at the earliest point for precisely this reason.
I think its important to point out here that whilst Mrs Ss objectives may have been the 
reason why she sought advice, her needs should have also influenced the advice being 
given. I say this because someones objectives arent always realistic, or in their best 
interests. And the overarching principles governing Cowgills is that it needed to work in its 
clients best interests. 
So, in this case, Im not sure how realistic it was for Mrs S to pay off her mortgages given the 
extent of the borrowing on the BTL properties and her home. Further, given Mrs Ss 
borrowing was adequately covered by the BTL rental income, Im not persuaded that this 
particular objective was more important than having a secure income in retirement and 
potentially being worse off due to the investment returns she needed just to match her OPS 
benefits. 
In terms of Mrs Ss decision to withdraw £25,000 when she reached the age of 55, which 
was to be used to overpay on some of her mortgages, it should be noted that she would 
have been entitled to just over £38,000 from her OPS at age 60. This sum could have been 
used for the same purpose. From what I can see, given the rental income was sufficient to 
cover the BTL mortgage payments, there was no urgent need for Mrs S to pay off some or 
all parts of her jointly held mortgages.
I also dont think transferring to secure the lump sum death benefits, wouldve been enough 
of a reason to override the negatives in transferring from her OPS. Especially considering 
Mrs S was in good health. Under these circumstances, I dont think the lack of flexibility 
around the death benefit provision in the OPS, was sufficiently important when weighted 
against the benefits and guarantees she was losing by transferring out of her scheme.
The suitability report notes that Mrs S was interested in transferring to take advantage of the 
new pension freedoms. Cowgills points to the withdrawal she made at age 55 as evidence of 
her desire for flexibility. I accept that if Mrs S remained in her OPS, she was unlikely to have 
taken her benefits before the age of 60 due to this reducing her entitlement. But equally, 
given she had no immediate requirement for an income, I dont think Mrs S had any need for 
increased flexibility. And whilst Mrs S may well have wanted to take advantage of the new 
pension freedoms, it was Cowgills role to not just transact what Mrs S wanted, but to give 
her objective advice on whether a transfer was in her best interests.
Looking at Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the advice, if she was looking for flexibility to 
achieve her objectives, this is something which could have been considered when she was 
older and closer to her retirement age. Cowgills says if its advice had waited, this would also 
have had risks. But I think the risks of losing guaranteed benefits outweighed the risks of 
waiting until Mrs S reached near to her retirement age. At this point, if the advice was to 
transfer, this wouldve mitigated a number of significant risks and costs which she took on 
immediately the transfer had taken effect. I dont think Mrs Ss objectives were sufficiently 
pressing that she shouldve been advised to give up her defined pension benefits.
Cowgills says the whole complaint is due to the investment returns not reaching what Mrs S 
was expecting, but that there were never any promises about the performance. And all risk 
warnings about the transfer of risk to Mrs S was given as part of the advice and she 
accepted these. Cowgills also says it would be unfair to uphold the complaint as Mrs S 
would be benefitting from the flexibility of a defined contribution plan as well as an award for 
a defined benefit pension. 
I can see Cowgills did provide appropriate risk warnings. But in my view, Mrs S would reasonably have understood from the suitability report that a transfer was suitable to the 
level of risk she wanted to take. A transfer of this nature is a complex issue with a variety of 
inter-relating factors to be taken into account. I consider she wouldve relied on the 
recommendation made by the adviser in making her decision. I think if shed been given 
suitable advice, she more likely than not would have followed this. And whilst the trigger for 
Mrs Ss complaint mayve been lower than expected returns, this reaction further supports 
her cautious attitude to risk and a reason why the transfer was not suitable for her.
In terms of the award, this is meant to try, as far as possible, to put Mrs S back into the 
position she wouldve been but for the unsuitable advice. If as a result of this, she still 
maintains the flexibility of the SIPP, this is something that has resulted from the unsuitable 
advice she relied on.
Having carefully considered the matter, as with the investigator, Im not persuaded that 
transferring guaranteed benefits was suitable for Mrs S in the context of her overall 
circumstances, her capacity for risk and the critical yield required to improve on the benefits 
of the former scheme.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As set out above, I 
consider she wouldve remained in the occupational scheme and not drawn her benefits until 
her normal retirement age of 60. So, the calculations should be based on Mrs S staying in 
her occupational scheme until age 60.
Cowgills Wealth Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
Cowgills Wealth Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mrs Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date 
Cowgills Wealth Limited receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time in excess of 90 days that it 
takes Cowgills Wealth Limited to pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of 
time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP 
may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cowgills Wealth Limited to pay Mrs S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Cowgills 
Wealth Limited to pay Mrs S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the 
compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Cowgills Wealth Limited to 
pay Mrs S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cowgills Wealth Limited pays Mrs S the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Cowgills Wealth Limited. My 
recommendation is not binding on Cowgills Wealth Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Cowgills Wealth Limited must calculate and pay redress to Mrs S as 
set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman