The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Limited) Europe turned down a claim 
on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L made a claim with Red Sands after her dog, who I'll refer to as "B" in this decision, had 
a fall and was limping. 
Red Sands turned down the claim saying that pre-existing conditions aren't covered under 
the policy. They said B had a pre-existing arthritic condition and this was linked to the 
limping. Mrs L was unhappy with this so brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the claim. He thought the claim should be paid as he 
couldn't see anything in the evidence linking the injury and symptoms B had from the fall 
with his pre-existing condition. Red Sands disagreed saying they thought the trauma of the 
fall may have aggravated an already arthritic joint. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear B had an accident; for which hes covered. It's also clear that B had arthritis before 
the fall; for which he isn't covered. 
Looking at the evidence I think he wouldve suffered the limping even if he didn't have 
arthritis. I haven't seen any final diagnosis to say he fell because of arthritis, or that his injury 
(the limping), was because of the arthritis. 
There is comment from the vet when they initially looked at B after the fall. This says it may 
be that B knuckled over on his leg and aggravated an already arthritic joint. This initial 
comment was made before an x-ray was done. I don't think this comment can be used as a 
diagnosis to link the limping and arthritis as it was the initial consultation. 
After an x-ray had been done the notes say that B had very very mild arthritis in his joints. 
This was to be expected as we know he had arthritis. But I haven't seen anything which says 
the limping was because of the arthritis. 
A letter from the vet says that the lameness (limping) was both severe and non-specific. The 
vet also said that the sudden onset of severe discomfort, and prompt recovery, suggested 
trauma. Looking at the evidence I'm persuaded by this opinion. 
DRN-1881170It appears the diagnosis is that B fell and suffered some trauma leading to limping. That's not 
to say B doesn't have a pre-existing condition, he does. But looking at the evidence I'm not 
persuaded by the argument from Red Sands that the limping after the fall is linked to the 
arthritis. And I haven't seen a final diagnosis confirming this.
Putting things right
To put things right Red Sands should pay the claim to the policy limits subject to proof of 
payment from Mrs L. 
Red Sands should also add 8% simple interest from the date the payment was made until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance (Europe) Limited to pay the claim as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman