DRN-4037104
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax) didnt remove a soft credit search from his 
credit file. Mr M also complains about problems he experienced when he tried to reset his 
password with Equifax. 
What happened
On 21 October 2020 a business Ill call R recorded a soft credit search on Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M went on to dispute the entry with R and raised a complaint. The complaint was later 
referred to this service and considered by another ombudsman. In May 2022, the 
ombudsman issued a final decision that said R should instruct the credit reference agencies 
to remove the beneficiary trace enquiry (soft search) from Mr Ms credit file. 
In October 2022 Mr M contacted Equifax and provided a copy of his credit file dated 18 
October 2021. The credit file showed the soft search from R. Mr M complained that despite 
asking R to remove its entry it remained on his credit file. 
Mr Ms told us he also asked Equifax to reset the password for his Equifax Online Help 
Account but it sent him a link to reset his Credit Report Account instead. As a result, Mr M 
had to call Equifax back in order to get the correct link to reset his password. Mr Ms told us 
this took an additional 10 minutes and caused him to waste his time. 
Equifax sent Mr M a final response to his complaint. Equifax said the soft search recorded 
on Mr Ms credit file on 21 October 2020 had dropped off after 12 months. Equifax 
apologised that its agent had sent Mr M the wrong link to reset his password and said 
feedback would be given. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Equifax had dealt with Mr Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Ms told us that Equifax didnt remove the disputed entry on his credit file which meant he 
had to contact it in October 2022. But the soft search was recorded on 21 October 2020 and 
dropped off Mr Ms credit file a year later. Weve been back to Equifax on this point. Equifax 
has confirmed there were no requests from R to remove its soft search from Mr Ms credit 
file prior to it dropping off after 12 months. The credit report Mr M sent us dated 18 October 
2021 shows the soft search remains. However, the credit report produced by Equifax on 28 
October 2021 shows the soft search had dropped off after 12 months, in line with how 
theyre recorded. 
As Ive said above, another ombudsman issued a decision in relation to Rs actions in May 
2022. Part of the settlement told R to remove its search. But the search stopped being 
reported in October 2021, so by the time the decision was issued it had already dropped off 
Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M hasnt told us about any impact of the soft credit search that caused a financial loss. 
And I havent seen any evidence that shows Equifax made a mistake with the information 
recorded on Mr Ms credit file. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im satisfied Equifax dealt 
with this part of his complaint fairly. So Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Equifax accepts Mr M was sent the wrong link when he asked to reset his Credit Online Help 
Account password. I note Equifaxs final response also confirmed feedback would be 
provided to the agent Mr M spoke to. Mr Ms told us he had to call Equifax back to get the 
right link and that wasted 10 minutes. I agree that being sent the wrong link did cause some 
inconvenience to Mr M. But Im satisfied the apology Equifax made in its final response fairly 
recognises the impact of its agents mistake. I havent been persuaded that the level of 
inconvenience caused was sufficient to award compensation in addition to the apology 
Equifax has already made. In my view, the apology in Equifaxs final response is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
As Im satisfied Equifax dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman