DRN-4369081
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund the money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr S was arranging a trip to visit family. He used his Revolut card to make 
payments to who he thought was an estate agent, on the understanding they were arranging 
flights for him. Unfortunately, they were a scammer. 
Mr S says he agreed to two payments. He was tricked into making another as the scammer 
told him one hadnt gone through. He was then told he needed to authorise the refund for the 
overcharged amount  but instead, further payments were taken.
When Mr S realised he had been scammed, he raised a dispute with Revolut in relation to 
the following payments: 
Date Merchant paid Amount
03/02/2023 T £1,645
03/02/2023 T £1,645
03/02/2023 T £1,645
04/02/2023 S £415.43 (plus £4.16 fee)
04/02/2023 S £166.21 (plus £2.49 fee)
Total loss  £5,523.39
Revolut said, in line with the chargeback rules set by the card scheme provider, there 
werent valid grounds to raise successful claims. Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred 
his complaint  about Revoluts decision not to refund him  to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said, bearing in mind the 3DS 
screens Mr S would have seen/approved, the payments should be treated as authorised. 
They didnt think Revolut had cause to be concerned at the time of processing the payments. 
And they didnt think it was at fault for not pursuing chargeback claims. 
Mr S has appealed the investigators outcome. He says Revolut should have had 
further/better measures in place to protect him. He has provided some information about his 
prior account to explain why he thought Revolut should have been concerned about the 
scam payments. And hes expressed dissatisfaction about the difference in protection 
offered by debit cards and credit cards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Ive considered whether the payments should be treated as authorised, in line with the 
relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). This is relevant as 
Mr S would generally be liable for authorised payments and Revolut would generally be 
liable for unauthorised payments. 
In broad terms, as set out in the PSRs, a payment would be deemed authorised if the 
account holder completes the agreed steps to make a payment  or gives someone else 
access to complete those steps on their behalf.
Im satisfied the payments on 3 February 2023 were authorised. While Mr S was being 
tricked, he provided his card details to the scammer, and completed the 3DS screen in the 
Revolut app, for the purpose of allowing them to take the payments. I understand he was 
tricked into thinking one hadnt gone through  which is why he completed the process 
again. But he knew the steps he took would allow a payment to be taken at that point, 
meaning it would still be deemed authorised.  
I have considered what Mr S has told us about the payments taken the next day. He says 
that, while he approved the payments via the in-app 3DS screen, he completed this step 
thinking he would be receiving (rather than making) payments. 
Looking at how the 3DS screen would have appeared, it was the same as for the previous 
payments. It showed the merchant name, as well as the payment amount with a minus sign 
in front of it. I think that made it clear enough that, by selecting to confirm the payment, 
Mr S was allowing the payment to be debited. He was giving a form of authority to the 
scammer to act on his behalf in requesting the payment. So I think, for the purposes of the 
PSRs, all the payments should be deemed authorised. 
As explained, that means Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. Revolut 
has a duty to act on his authorised payment instructions without undue delay. However, 
there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut to take additional steps 
before processing a payment. Such as when there are grounds to suspect the payment 
presents a fraud risk. That might occur when a payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic compared to the normal use of the account.
Looking at Mr Ss account history, Im not persuaded these payments appeared so 
uncharacteristic that Revolut ought to have suspected he was falling victim to a scam. He 
had previously made similar size (and larger) payments, and had sent multiple payments to 
the same payee within a day. I appreciate the distinction Mr S has drawn about the nature of 
those earlier payments. But I still consider them relevant to what level/type of account 
activity Revolut would be expecting to see from Mr S, and what it would consider significantly 
uncharacteristic and risky. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider it remiss that Revolut processed the payments in line 
with the instructions received without completing further checks.
I appreciate Mr S thinks Revolut should have recovered the funds through the chargeback 
scheme. This is a scheme run by the card-scheme provider (in this case, Mastercard) to 
resolve payment disputes between customers and merchants  subject to the rules they set. 
The scheme is voluntary and limited in scope. Revolut isnt obliged to put a claim through 
just because Mr S requests one. But Id consider it good industry practice to do so if the 
claim was likely to succeed. Here, the way the payments were authenticated (using 3DS) meant the funds couldnt be 
charged back from the merchants paid on the grounds of fraud. Nor am I persuaded there 
were any other chargeback reasons, under Mastercards rules, that would have been likely 
to succeed. 
Most chargebacks reasons are for (evidenced) issues with the goods or service provided by 
the merchant paid. T was a money transfer service. They likely provided the expected 
service by loading/transferring the funds in line with the instructions received. Similarly, S 
appears to be a digital goods provider. And theres no indication they didnt provide whatever 
goods and services the payments were funding. I therefore think it was reasonable that 
Revolut didnt try to charge back these card payments  as I dont think the claims would 
have succeeded.
I understand Mr S is disappointed that the recovery options for payments made on debit card 
(as these were) differ to those made on credit card. There is different legislation that can, in 
some circumstances, give rise to a different type of claim for credit card payments. But what 
Im considering is whether Revolut acted fairly, in line with its obligations. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr S, who has clearly fallen victim to a cruel 
scam. But in all the circumstances, Im decided not to direct Revolut to reimburse him for his 
loss. Thats because Im not persuaded that loss is attributable to a failing by Revolut. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman