DRN-4446657
The complaint
Miss H and Mr J have complained about a mortgage they hold with Landmark Mortgages 
Limited.
They say Landmark held incorrect information about Mr J on its system which meant he 
couldnt pass the security questions, so he was unable to make a payment to the mortgage 
over the phone. They also say that due to the mis-information, the mortgage wasnt showing 
on his credit file, and as a result hes had applications for credit elsewhere declined.
What happened
In August 2006 Miss H and Mr J took out this mortgage through an independent mortgage 
broker. They borrowed £55,100 (plus fees) over a 25-year term on a repayment basis. They 
also borrowed an additional £14,900 as an unsecured loan.
The mortgage went into arrears, with sporadic payments being made and direct debits being 
returned as unpaid. Since the start of 2022 (up until the end of September 2023) the 
following payments were successfully made to the mortgage (all figures are approximate):
9 February 2022 £365
10 March 2022 £365
30 March 2022 £365
30 April 2022 £370
31 January 2023 £2,000
7 July 2023 £1,000
1 August 2023 £1,010
31 August 2023 £465
6 September 2023 £310
On the 6 July 2023 Miss H called Landmark to make a payment. She wanted to pay using 
Mr Js card as she didnt have a card to use. Whilst going through the security questions it 
became apparent that Landmark held an incorrect date of birth and national insurance 
number for Mr J. That meant he was unable to pass the security checks so the payment 
couldnt be made over the phone. The call handler gave them Landmarks bank details so 
the payment could be made online instead - which Miss H acknowledged was probably 
easier anyway than phoning up to pay - and a complaint was raised.
The payment of around £1,000 was made on 7 July 2023 by bank transfer.
Miss H spoke to Landmark on 12 July 2023 about the complaint. She said Mr J had been 
declined a loan due to his credit rating and they thought it was because of the mortgage 
arrears, but it turns out the mortgage wasnt showing on his credit file at all so that was why 
he'd been turned down. She said Mr J has another mortgage with his brother so there 
shouldnt be a problem.
Mr Js national insurance number was corrected on 13 July 2023 as Landmark already held 
copies of Mr Js payslips on file. As it didnt hold any evidence of identification containing 
Mr Js date of birth on file it asked Mr J for evidence so that could be updated.
On 30 August 2023 Landmark responded to the complaint. It said the details it held for Mr J 
had been wrong from the start, and the issue hadnt come to light before as it generally had 
been speaking to Miss H about the account. Landmark said it had updated Mr Js national 
insurance number and was awaiting evidence of his date of birth, such as a copy of his birth 
certificate, passport or driving licence before that could be updated. It apologised for the 
service that had been provided and offered £50 compensation.
Unhappy with that Miss H and Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Miss H said Mr J 
was going to make a payment but couldnt pass security. She also said that Mr J was going 
to take out a loan to help with the mortgage payments and, as he had a mortgage, she 
thought hed easily get a loan. She said she thinks because Landmark held incorrect details 
for Mr J (so the mortgage wasnt showing on his credit file) that was the reason he couldnt 
get a loan. She said, to resolve things, they wanted Mr Js credit file information to be 
corrected, and substantially more compensation to be paid.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She said it appeared the information had been 
wrong from when the broker submitted it in 2006, and Landmark wouldnt have realised until 
Mr J needed to try to complete security, which happened in July 2023. She felt Landmark 
was right to request proof of Mr Js date of birth so its information could be amended, and 
that as an alternative payment method was given Miss H and Mr J hadnt suffered any 
financial loss. In terms of the credit file, our Investigator said that the mortgage had been in 
arrears since at least 2017 and so it was unlikely that information being reported on Mr Js 
credit file would have been more favourable than nothing being reported at all. She felt the 
£50 compensation offer was fair.
Miss H and Mr J didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately because it is over 15 years since the mortgage was taken out it isnt clear what 
went wrong that led to Landmark holding incorrect personal information about Mr J which led 
to him not being able to pass security. But I dont need to know what went wrong originally to 
be able to fairly decide this complaint.
The error came to light on 6 July 2023 when Mr J wanted to make a payment to the 
mortgage. Landmark was right to say it couldnt take the payment over the phone, and the 
call handler gave an alternative method of payment. That all seems reasonable. 
The payment was made by bank transfer the following day. At the time the mortgage was 
six months in arrears and there was no difference to how the account was reported to the 
credit reference agencies due to the one-day delay in the payment being received. There 
was also no additional collections activity, and no additional fees, due to the one-day delay. 
So having considered everything Im satisfied there was no detriment to Miss H and Mr J 
from the payment not being taken by phone on 6 July.
Another issue that seems to have flowed from Landmark holding incorrect personal 
information about Mr J is that the mortgage account hasnt been reporting on his credit 
reference file.
Miss H and Mr J feel that the lack of information about the mortgage is what has caused Mr J to be unable to obtain a personal loan, with Miss H saying that as Mr J has a mortgage 
she thought hed easily be able to get a loan. But it isnt as simple as that. 
Whilst the holding of financial products can improve a persons credit score, that is only the 
case if they are maintaining those credit commitments satisfactorily. By that I mean, the 
accounts are not in arrears. Here the mortgage account was six months in arrears and had 
been in an arrears state for a number of years. 
In my experience, that arrears information being reported on a credit file would be much 
worse (and be more of a cause for a person to be unable to get further credit) than no 
information being reported at all.
Having considered everything very carefully I dont think I can safely conclude that this 
mortgage not showing on Mr Js credit file was the only barrier to him being able to obtain a 
personal loan, and that had this mortgage (and its arrears status) been correctly shown on 
Mr Js credit file then he would more likely than not have been able to obtain a loan.
It is clear something went wrong, and Landmark has offered £50 compensation. I agree with 
our Investigator that is a fair offer and it is in line with what I would have awarded had 
Landmark not already made the offer.
I can see how strongly Miss H and Mr J feel about this, and Im sorry to disappoint them, but 
I dont think Landmark did anything wrong in the call on 6 July 2023 and I cant hold it liable 
for Mr J being unable to obtain a personal loan.
My final decision
Landmark Mortgages Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Landmark Mortgages Limited should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman