DRN-3227374
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the performance of his Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) pension. 
He is unhappy that the automatic switching of his investment funds in the run-up to his 
retirement age has not worked as intended and has not protected the value of his plan. He 
has now deferred taking an income from his pension as a result of the fall in value. 
What happened
In February 2002, Mr W set up a pension plan with Phoenix (initially Royal & Sun Alliance 
Pension Solutions) to receive a redress payment of £6,383 resulting from a pension review. 
The intended retirement age of the plan was 6 July 2020, when Mr W turned 60. There is no 
indication that Mr W received advice in relation to this, and he has not complained that the 
plan was unsuitable for his needs. 
The funds were invested in the Managed Growth fund, however due to the lifestyling option 
being set up on the plan (referred to as Protective Switching), the fund was gradually moved 
into the Pension Protector and Cash deposit funds, commencing five years prior to the 
intended retirement date.
The purpose of this was to protect against investment volatility in the five years preceding Mr 
Ws intended retirement age, and protect the value of an annuity that could be purchased 
with the fund at retirement. 
Phoenix sent annual statements to Mr W, and from 2015 onwards, each statement 
confirmed that Protective Switching was in place, along with advantages and disadvantages 
of this. Each statement also confirmed that Mr W could turn this facility off at any time. 
In November 2020, Mr W raised a complaint with Phoenix. He raised a number of complaint 
points, partly relating to service, and partly relating to the investment performance of his 
pension.  Phoenix upheld the element of the complaint relating to service, and paid him 
compensation of £100 however it did not uphold the element of the complaint relating to 
investment performance and as a result referred his complaint to this service. The 
investigator did not feel that Phoenix had acted unfairly and did not uphold the complaint. Mr 
W was unhappy with this and thus the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and do not uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W is concerned about the performance of his pension, specifically the fact that the value 
of it has reduced when other investments and the FTSE 100 have increased. He is also 
unhappy that he believes the Protective Switching has not worked as intended and protected 
the value of his pension from reducing.
When considering what is fair in this case, I have looked at the purpose of the protective 
switching in the context of Mr Ws pension planning in order to ascertain whether it has 
worked as intended. Protective switching commenced in 2015, and was outlined in Mr Ws 
annual statements from that time onwards. The statements included an outline of how 
Protective Switching worked, along with some advantages and disadvantages. It stated that 
Protective Switching worked by gradually switching 75% of Mr Ws funds into the Pension 
Protector Fund and 25% into the Cash Deposit fund. The advantages were stated to include 
reducing the risk of negative market conditions by increasingly investing in what are 
generally regarded as safer, more stable assets alongside making the performance of the 
investment more predictable as Mr W got closer to retirement and allowed him to plan more 
confidently for his retirement. The disadvantages included a statement that it may be 
detrimental if investments are moved away from equity-based funds when the market is low 
even if the market recovers just a day later, or if equity based funds consistently out-perform 
funds invested in things like cash-based investments and Government gilt-edged stock right 
up to retirement.
It is this statement which is particularly relevant to Mr W. Mr W has based his complaint 
relating to poor performance on a comparison with another pension he holds, invested in a 
different way and by comparing to equity markets (and the FTSE 100 in particular). 
Lifestyling is designed to provide a level of security against funds invested in equities falling 
significantly in the period preceding a policyholders selected retirement date, which would 
have an adverse impact on their fund at retirement.  The investments typically held within a 
fund such as the Pension Protector fund (Government gilt-edged stock for instance) would 
not react in the same way as equity market conditions and are considered to be lower risk. It 
is therefore not unexpected that the fund invested in this way may reduce in value when 
equity markets were rising. Conversely, had equities dropped, Mr W would have been 
protected against this reduction. 
I have considered whether it is fair for Mr W to have considered that there was any element 
of guarantee within his fund or understood that the value could not go down. I have not 
found anything to indicate this would be the case. Whilst the word protected does indicate 
an element of security, I dont think it was presented as providing any sort of guarantee on 
his fund value and the potential drawbacks were explained  as Ive mentioned above. 
As stated above, Phoenix provided Mr W with regular annual statements for his account 
showing that the Protective Switching was still in place, and outlining the advantages and 
disadvantages with equal prominence. It also indicated clearly that he could switch off the 
facility. Phoenix have not provided Mr W with any advice about his policy, which they were 
not obliged to do. Mr W was free to remove the Protective Switching at any time he felt it did 
not meet his needs. There is no evidence to indicate that Mr W was unhappy with Protective 
Switching being applied to his plan until 2020, nor did he request for it to be switched off. As 
such, Im satisfied that Phoenix acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
I recognise Mr Ws frustration with the investment returns achieved by his pension. Whilst 
regrettable, disappointing investment performance is not a matter this service will usually 
consider as the basis for a complaint because it is not an indication that the policy provider 
has done something wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman