DRN-2892540
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of a transfer from his Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider.
What happened
In late January 2020 Hargreaves received an ISA transfer instruction from a new account 
provider. Hargreaves acted on this instruction and sold Mr Bs investments soon after.
Mr B noticed that all of the investments in his account had been sold and complained to 
Hargreaves saying he only wanted to transfer £40,000 from his ISA and not the whole 
balance. Hargreaves liaised with the new provider and Mr Bs account was restored. The 
sale of Mr Bs investments were reversed so his account was back in the same position, with 
the same number of shares, as it was prior to the sale taking place.
It turns out that when Hargreaves reversed the sales and repurchased the shares the cost 
was around £4,000 less than when the shares were sold as they had fallen in value. Mr B 
complained to Hargraves (as well as to the new provider) saying he was entitled to this 
surplus amount of money. Hargreaves said this wasnt the case as Mr Bs account had been 
restored with the same number of shares. They went on to say in situations like this they 
dont return any surplus to clients in the same way they wouldnt expect clients to pay 
additional funds had there been a shortfall. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They were happy that Hargreaves had put Mr B 
back in the same position with the same number of shares he had before the problem 
happened. They didnt think it would be fair for Hargreaves to compensate Mr B as they 
were acting on instructions from the new provider and had reversed the sales in a timely 
manner. Mr B disagreed saying it wasnt fair that Hargreaves profited from what happened, 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and reasons why he thinks he is 
entitled to the surplus money. I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything 
he has submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
I think its important to start by saying that I dont think Hargreaves made any mistakes with 
what happened. Looking at the transfer form received from the new provider theres no 
mention of a partial transfer. The form, which is signed by Mr B, gives authorisation to 
transfer the balance of the account in cash to the new provider; which is what Hargreaves 
started to do by selling the shares.
Mr B says he thinks Hargreaves shouldve checked the details with him before placing the 
sales and liquidating his account. I can see why Mr B thinks that, and in this situation such a 
check wouldve stopped any errors being made. However Hargreaves are under no 
obligation to make such a check. The terms and conditions of the account say that 
Hargreaves will sell investments without further reference to you or your new provider. And 
Ive seen nothing on the transfer form or cover letter that would indicate a reason to double 
check or that would raise any doubts about the instruction.
The issue here is whether Mr B is entitled to the surplus cash from the repurchase of the 
shares; and Im satisfied that he is not.
Hargreaves have placed Mr B back in the situation he was in before the problem (which Im 
satisfied wasnt their fault) happened. His account has the same number of shares that it did 
before. I know that the shares were repurchased at a lower price due to a fall in the market, 
but that doesnt mean Mr B should receive any surplus. Id expect Mr B to be put back in the 
position he would be in had the mistake not happened. This means he should have the 
same number of shares, and this is what he has. Its the number of shares which is 
important here and not the cash value of those shares. Mr Bs account was restored to the 
same position it was before, which is what I would expect Hargreaves to do. 
There were a few days when Mr B couldnt access his account while it was being restored. 
This coincided with a volatile time in the market when Mr B says he was stopped from 
trading and potentially making a profit. Looking at the timeline of events, and bearing mind 
that I dont think Hargreaves made any errors, I think access to Mr Bs account was restored 
in a timely manner. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied that Hargraves have 
acted fairly and reasonably when restoring Mr Bs account to the position it was in before the 
problem occurred. Therefore I wont be asking Hargreaves to take any action or make any 
payment to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman