DRN-3288305
The complaint
Mr N complains that when he contacted Admiral Insurance Company Limited about taking 
out motor insurance with them, the initial premium hed been quoted was increased by £50 
because of a non-fault accident.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr N searched online for car insurance and found a quote of £478 for cover 
with Admiral. He called Admiral and during the conversation was told that theyd found 
details of a non-fault accident a named driver on his policy had in 2019. And because of this 
they added £50 to the premium hed been quoted.
Mr N doesnt think this is fair as the named driver is no longer on his policy, and the accident 
wasnt their fault. He says they were just sitting in the car when someone crashed into them. 
He wants Admiral to refund the additional £50 he was charged and not take the non-fault 
claim into account going forward.
Mr N took out cover for his car with Admiral but raised a complaint about the increased 
premium. Admiral said that when a customer applies for a quotation they ask if theyve made 
any claims, or been involved in any incidents or losses, either fault or non-fault. And when 
Mr N called them on 17 August 2021, they ran a search which showed a non-fault claim from 
13 May 2019.
When this was added to Mr Ns quotation it impacted his premium. Admiral said they 
understood that Mr N considered this to be unfair, but the risk was assessed based on the 
information they had. And the price of his policy was calculated on all rating factors including 
claims, the car he drives and where he lives.
Admiral said their claims experience shows customers with non-fault claims are more likely 
to go on to make a fault claim in the future. The evidence they have for this is overwhelming 
and they calculate premiums based on their own statistics. So Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ns 
complaint.
Mr N wasnt happy with Admirals response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt ask Admiral to refund the additional £50 Mr N was 
charged.
She said that when calculating premiums insurers look at a large number of factors. And this 
is a commercial judgment theyre entitled to make. And we wouldnt tell Admiral what factors 
they should take into account when assessing risk, provided were satisfied the factor is 
relevant. 
She felt a non-fault claim involving a named driver was a relevant factor for Admiral to 
consider. As by insuring a named driver on his policy, Mr N gave them permission to drive 
his car and be covered for any accident they were involved in. So the insurer covers the risk 
under the policy, and as the non-fault claim was recorded against Mr Ns policy its 
reasonable for future insurers to consider this as part of his claims record. 
While she understood the named driver wasnt responsible for the accident, Admiral had 
said their statistics showed customers involved in non-fault claims are more likely to claim in 
the future, so even though the claim was made by someone else, because theyd been a 
claim, she thought it was reasonable for Admiral to take this into account.
Mr N didnt accept out investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual when applying for insurance to be asked about your claims history. And insurers 
will use this as part of their criteria for assessing the risk of providing cover. 
Mr N has told us that he found the initial quote from Admiral online and then called him to 
discuss this. Admiral have told us that during the call a search they did gave details of his 
2019 non-fault claim. If Mr N had provided details of that claim, then the initial quote he 
received would have taken that into account. But the quote changed because of information 
Admiral found from their database search.
The criteria insurers use to access risk is a commercial decision and so something we 
wouldnt get involved in, unless we thought theyd taken into account something that they 
shouldnt have.
In this case I need to consider whether it was reasonable for Admiral to take into account a 
non-fault accident a named driver on Mr Ns policy had in 2019, in calculating the premium 
he was charged in 2021. 
I can understand why Mr N thinks this was unfair because the named driver wasnt 
responsible for the accident. And he wasnt looking for them to be covered by his policy with 
Admiral.
But the accident Mr Ns named driver was involved in is part of his claims history. And I think 
its reasonable for Admiral to consider this as a whole, when assessing the risk of providing 
him with cover and calculating the premium theyll charge him for this. Admirals risk criteria 
take into account what theyve told us about their claims statistics. And that these show 
policyholders involved in a non-fault claim are more likely to claim in the future. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to assess the risk involved in offering Mr N 
cover and in calculating the premium theyd charge him for this, based on his claims history, 
even though this involved a non-fault claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman