DRN-3623987
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding him responsible 
for a business loan and business current account he says he didnt open.
What happened
On 6 July 2020, a NatWest bounce back loan for £50,000 was applied for in Mr Gs name, a 
business current account was also applied for and opened around the same time. On 
13 July 2020 the loan funds were paid into the business current account, and over the next 
couple of weeks the funds were spent. There were also some smaller payments into and out 
of the business account in September and October 2020.
In December 2020 Mr G contacted NatWest saying he had just discovered that two accounts 
he knew nothing about had been opened in his name. He said that a letter hed received 
about closing his personal account had included details of the business loan and business 
current account. At that time NatWest told Mr G it would not be able to help him.
In May 2021 Mr G then received a demand for the outstanding loan, so he contacted 
NatWest again to reiterate that he had not applied for the loan. He told NatWest that hed 
lost his wallet in May 2020 and thought he might have inadvertently then given all his details 
to a scammer through a phishing email, he also commented that he thought his phone might 
have been cloned. But NatWest felt there was enough evidence to suggest that Mr G had 
opened the accounts, so it was therefore holding Mr G liable for the outstanding balance of 
the loan.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked at what had 
happened, but they did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G did not agree with the 
investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is 
more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have reviewed the applications that NatWest say Mr G made in June 2020 (for the 
business current account) and July 2020 (for the business loan). Both applications were 
made using Mr Gs genuine details including his name, date of birth, and address. The loan 
application also included Mr Gs legitimate phone number  the same number he gave to us 
as his contact number. Both applications though were made using an email address that 
Mr G says he doesnt recognise, and the business current account also used a different 
phone number. Both applications were also made on the basis that Mr G was a sole trader in 
an industry he says he doesnt work in.
It seems to me there are three possible scenarios here: Mr G made the applications himself, 
an unknown third party made the applications without Mr Gs knowledge, a known third party 
made the applications with Mr Gs knowledge or involvement. 
In thinking about an unknown third party being responsible, Mr G told us he did lose his 
wallet  which included his debit card for his personal account, the PIN for that account, and 
other personal information such as his mobile number and email address  in May 2020. But 
he says he didnt report it lost or stolen as he had other things on his mind at the time. Hes 
said he then got an email for a government grant, and that he followed a link in that email 
and input a lot of his personal details, but that hes since discovered that email might have 
been a scam. Mr G also says hes had notifications that his phone might have been cloned. 
Mr G has put this forward as evidence of how someone may have been able to get all the 
details needed to open these accounts without his knowledge. 
However, while what Mr G has suggested is possible, there is also evidence to refute what 
he has said. Specifically:
- Mr Gs personal account statements show that he continued to use his debit card 
after he says it was stolen in May 2020
- Mr Gs correct address and phone number were listed for the loan, the phone 
number was then used to authenticate the loan application using a one-time 
passcode
- Mr G regularly accessed his online banking during the period the loan and business 
account were being applied for and so would have seen evidence of the accounts
- £1,000 from the loan was transferred to Mr Gs personal current account on 15 July 
2020, before these funds were transferred Mr G had only 45p in his personal 
account, so its difficult to see how he wouldnt have noticed that he had so much 
more money than he was expecting to have 
- a payment of £110 went from Mr Gs personal account to the business current 
account, and this appears to have been funded by a payment into Mr Gs personal 
account from someone hed also previously received funds from
- there were payments to the same retailer from Mr Gs personal account and from the 
business account
- we have recordings of phone calls which refer to the business loan both before and 
after Mr G reported it as fraudulent. I dont have access to expert voice recognition 
analysis  but in my view the voice on the earlier calls discussing the loan is very 
similar to Mr Gs voice from the call reporting the fraud. Whilst I cant be certain, I 
would say it is more likely than not that it was the same person making all the phone 
calls. 
For the reasons set out above, I cant safely say Mr G wasnt involved here. And, overall, the 
pattern of spending and transfers is not indicative of a fraudster. Its also difficult to see how 
Mr G wouldnt have been aware that hed received the funds in his personal account. I  
therefore think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to be held liable for the outstanding balance 
of the loan because I think its more likely than not that he did open it and then made the 
payments from the business current account spending the loan funds.I appreciate there are some anomalies here. And I accept some of the details such as the 
phone number on the business current account and the email address on both applications 
dont appear to match Mr Gs. But overall, these anomalies are not enough to persuade me 
to reach a different conclusion. And whilst I acknowledge that there could be an explanation 
behind each of the points Ive discussed above, when they are all taken into consideration 
together and holistically, I dont believe the more likely explanation is that these accounts 
were taken out without Mr Gs involvement.
So in summary, Ive closely examined the information supplied by both parties and on 
balance, Im not persuaded that the accounts opened with NatWest were opened without 
Mr Gs knowledge or involvement. Ive taken into account what Mr G has said, but I think 
there are too many factors that link Mr G to these applications and to the spending of the 
funds, and that suggest he would have been aware of the two accounts. So it follows that I 
dont find NatWest has acted unfairly in holding Mr G liable for the outstanding balance of 
the loan. I appreciate that Mr G will be very disappointed by my findings, but I hope he will 
understand why I have reached the conclusions I have. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman