DRN-4182754
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) acted irresponsibly by providing her 
with an overdraft she couldnt afford. She says Monzo acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss S held an account with Monzo and applied and was approved for an overdraft with a 
limit of £200 in March which was increased to £750 in May 2019. All further applications for 
increased limits were declined. 
Miss S complained to Monzo that it acted irresponsibly by approving an overdraft facility for 
her. Monzo didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss S was dis-satisfied she referred the 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ss complaint and thought that the initial overdraft 
lending was reasonable based on the information Monzo had, but they felt that Monzo ought 
to have known Miss S was in financial difficulty by April 2020 as Miss S hadnt been able to 
see or maintain a credit balance on her account for 12 months.  
Monzo disagreed that it did anything wrong. It says it reached out to Miss S when she 
exceeded her limit but that Miss S failed to respond. So the complaint was progressed for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S would be 
able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Miss Ss overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the 
checks Monzo carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss S would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Miss S applied and was approved for an overdraft with a limit of £200 in March 2019 
increasing to £750 in May. Monzo says Miss S applied for her overdraft and limit increases 
online. It says her applications were credit checked taking into account information Miss S 
provided about her income and expenditure and how she had managed her account with it, 
as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. 
Monzo says at the time of the applications there werent any defaults or missed payments on 
the accounts registered to her and based on this information and that provided by Miss S it 
was satisfied the overdraft facility she requested was affordable for her.
I accept that Miss Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to Monzo at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Monzo this. But Monzo was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Miss Ss statements leading up to the increases I can see that Miss S 
was managing her account with Monzo and given the relatively modest overdraft limits 
requested I think Monzos checks went far enough and I dont think Monzo acted unfairly in 
agreeing the overdraft facility for Miss S. 
But Im in agreement with our adjudicator that by April 2020 I think it was evident she was in 
financial difficulty. Miss Ss statements showed that she hadnt seen or maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time (12 months) and spent the majority of time at the top 
of her limit and often exceeded the limit. 
Overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss Ss statements show she was clearly struggling to manage her overdraft limit with 
Monzo, there was little money coming in and when it did come in it went straight out again to 
service other accounts or pay for bills and day to day living. 
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, think that Monzo acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 1 April 2020. By this point, it 
ought to have been clear that Miss S was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed 
within a reasonable period of time. I accept that Monzo did reach out to Miss S in the form of 
automated messages and she failed to engage. But I dont think offering automated 
messages as support goes far enough. Despite Miss Ss statements showing her struggling 
to pay off her overdraft or reduce it over a significant period of time, Monzo continued to 
charge for it making her financial situation worse. 
So I think that Miss Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Monzo to have realised that 
Miss S wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Monzo didnt react to Miss Ss overdraft usage early enough I think it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Monzo 
didnt treat Miss S fairly and she lost out because of what Monzo did wrong.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ss overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2020 are removed.
ANDIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ss 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd and direct it pay the 
fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman