DRN-4239971
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society were at fault for an international transfer 
being returned which resulted in a foreign exchange loss and they provided him with poor 
customer service. 
Mr A is represented by a relative in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr A himself.
What happened
Mr A attempted to make an international transfer via Nationwides online portal to a relative, 
but the payment was returned to them within three days of receipt. Mr A says that he had 
numerous communications with Nationwide about the payment. He says he was told by 
Nationwide that he needed to provide the recipient bank with a tracing number so they could 
trace the payment, so Mr A gave this to the intended recipient of the payment, who 
contacted the recipient bank. The intended recipient obtained evidence that her credit union 
(which was the recipient bank) had returned the payment to Nationwide on 25 March 2022. 
Mr A made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide partially upheld Mr As complaint. They said that he made a payment of 
£113,377.16 (€132,129.74) converted at the rate of 1.1654 euros to the pound on 15 March 
2022, and the recipient bank returned the funds to their third party payment processing 
partner on 25 March 2022, but there was no additional supporting message from the 
recipient bank confirming return of the payment. They said it was a fresh payment as it 
wasnt returned as a Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) and it was returned to the 
originating account (their payment processing partner. So this resulted in no triggers or 
notifications to return the funds to Mr A.
Nationwide said that as part of reconciliation activity between their payment processor and 
themselves, this entry was investigated and the return of funds processed, with £111,263.82 
being credited to Mr As account on 5 May 2022. They said reconciliation without any 
reference should occur within 30 working days from the date the funds are returned (which 
would be 6 May 2022), so they hadnt made any error and they were unable to offer to 
refund him for the loss of £2,113.34 hed incurred. Nationwide apologised for the lack of 
ownership taken to deal with his queries regarding the payment and offered him £200 
compensation. Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said the credit union returned the payment to Nationwide via their payment 
processing partner without providing sufficient details of the originating account from where 
the funds were debited. He said without this, the payment processor had to investigate the 
source of funds before returning them to the correct account. Mr A asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. He said the credit union returned the funds which clearly showed his 
International Bank Account Number (IBAN), which is unique to his account and therefore left 
no confusion. He enclosed a copy of the paperwork the credit union sent him about the 
transfer. He said surely the funds were converted to Sterling at the time they were sent from 
the credit union and not when Nationwide received them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear that as Mr As complaint is brought against Nationwide, then Im only able to 
make a finding about Nationwide on this complaint and not any other bank or credit union 
which may have been involved with the transfers. Where I refer to the credit union, this could 
be the credit union or their payment processors. 
Id like to explain to Mr A that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their reconciliation policies and procedures such as how often they should reconciliate 
payments. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the IBAN being included in the paperwork the 
credit union sent him. Im not persuaded that the credit union sent actual paperwork to 
Nationwide as the sending of money would be electronic. Ive looked at the payment 
information on Mr As paperwork though as I agree this is the details the credit union 
returned the money to. But I cant agree the credit union used the correct details for Mr A 
and Ill explain why.
The beneficiary name is not Mr As name. But it is the correct beneficiary bank (building 
society). Ive looked at the next column on the paperwork which is the beneficiary Bank 
Identifier Code (BIC). But this code is not Nationwides code. As shown on Mr As current 
account statement, this shows what his BIC would be, and the BIC that the credit union used 
appears to be just to the payment processor instead of the BIC of where the transfer 
originated from. It appears that the credit union have used the BIC for the payment 
processor instead, but its not clear why they wouldnt have used the correct BIC to reach Mr 
As account.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but the IBAN displayed on the paperwork which he says leaves 
no confusion, is not his IBAN for his account. His correct IBAN is shown on his current 
account statement. And the IBAN displayed on the paperwork is not even a Nationwide 
IBAN as it appears to be their payment processors IBAN. So the payment information from 
the credit union shows a mismatch of information with a different building society with a BIC 
and IBAN which doesnt belong to Nationwide themselves.
Typically when a financial institution receives a SEPA payment, and they choose to return a 
payment, they would return it as a SEPA payment which should reach the intended account. 
But the credit union returned the funds via a new payment instruction, and as the BIC/IBAN 
were not the same as shown on his current account statement, this is why it did not reach Mr 
As account when they sent the funds back on 25 March 2022. The funds were sent in 
Euros as shown on the paperwork. I checked with Nationwide to see if the funds would have 
been converted at that point. They confirmed that the funds credit their payment processors 
currency account, and as such, they are only converted to Sterling on the same day 
Nationwide receive the funds.
Once Mr A made Nationwide aware of an issue with the payment, they say they initiated via 
their payment processor a Credit Payment Recovery (CPR). They say that this would have 
been chased up every seven days. Im not aware that the credit union responded to this, as 
if they would have sent the payment processor information of where the payment was sent, 
then this would have been located when they received this information. Ive also been 
unable to obtain proof of the CPR as Nationwide dont hold this, so I cant rule out that it hasnt been chased up either, but I would find this unlikely as they have procedures in place 
to follow these types of requests up. 
Due to the reconciliation processes that Nationwide and their processing partner have in 
place, they have 30 days in which they would try and reconcile a payment, which they 
managed to do here. Ive already mentioned the reasons why this didnt automatically go into 
Mr As account when the payment was sent by the credit union due to details other than his 
own which were entered. So it appears that a manual process is needed to try and reconcile 
payments which are in the payment processors account. Here, as the credit union had used 
two reference numbers under the remittance data field of the returned payment, that they 
were able to manually redirect the funds back to Mr As account. 
So I cant say that Nationwide were at fault for the credit union not crediting the payment to 
the intended recipient as this would be out of their control. And I would not expect them to be 
familiar with other companies payment limits. They would not be responsible for the credit 
union not returning the payment as a return of their SEPA payment and instead initiating a 
new transfer with a BIC and IBAN which werent for Mr As account. So it would not be 
proportionate to ask Nationwide to refund the exchange loss here. 
But Nationwide did let Mr A down on occasion. They have admitted that there was a lack of 
ownership taken towards his queries regarding the SEPA payment and the delay in their 
response to his complaint. He was told an incorrect reason for the payment being returned, 
and while this is likely to be the reason Nationwide was given, it could have been explained 
clearer to Mr A. The poor customer service would have been distressing for Mr A and he 
was inconvenienced by frequently ringing Nationwide to try and find out what was happening 
with the payment. So its only fair that Nationwide compensates Mr A for the poor customer 
service.
Nationwide offered £200 for the poor customer service. Im satisfied that this is fair as it is in 
line with our awards for compensation when something goes wrong. So Nationwide should 
pay Mr A the £200 compensation they offered him, but I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr A £200. But I wont be 
requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman