DRN-3267276
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
the result of a scam.
Background
Mr L has explained that in December 2018 he visited his local HSBC to reset his security 
details. He had a conversation with the branch manager, who for ease Ill refer to in my 
decision as Mr A. Mr L found he shared some common interests with Mr A, including music. 
Mr A provided Mr L with his personal email address, which Mr L used to send him some 
music. Mr A also sent Mr L some vouchers at this time on behalf of HSBC, as an apology for 
the delays in unblocking his account.
Mr L heard nothing further from Mr A until December 2019, when Mr A sent him a message 
via his work phone number, asking Mr L how he had been and updating Mr L on how he was 
also. From here a friendship was struck  Mr L has explained the two of them spoke most 
days, during a difficult period of time in Mr Ls life, where Mr A was very supportive of him.
Mr L has explained after some time, Mr A began discussing Crytocurrency with him and that 
Mr A considered there was a lot of money to be made from it.  Mr A and Mr L made some 
investments in Cryptocurrency, which seemed to perform well. Mr L says Mr A then enrolled 
in a Cryptocurrency trading course  Mr A said Mr L could also study the course and pay him 
back when he was able to, which Mr L agreed to.
Mr L has provided a number of recordings of conversations between himself and Mr A. From 
these, I understand that during the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr L had the option to receive a 
bounce back loan from the government. Mr A told Mr L that if he had that opportunity, he 
would take the money and invest, which Mr L decided upon doing. The pair agreed to go into 
business together in the Cryptocurrency field, creating a limited company that Mr L was a 
director of, with Mr A listed as a person with significant control. They also attempted to open 
a HSBC business account together but this never happened. Mr L suggested that, to make 
transactions safer, he would send the bounce back loan hed received to Mr A to directly 
invest. Mr L has provided a copy of a loan agreement that was drawn up between himself 
and Mr A, although Mr A never signed this agreement.
There are regular conversations about investing and how this should best be done which, it 
appears from the conversations provided, wasnt always agreed upon. In December 2020 Mr 
L and Mr A had a disagreement and decided to end both their friendship and business 
agreement. Mr L has since sent a number of messages to Mr A, asking for his share of the 
money back, which Mr A has so far not done. Both parties have also alleged the other is 
using threats or blackmail against them. As Mr L believes Mr A holds money which belongs 
to him and refuses to return it, he now considers hes been the victim of a scam.
Unable to resolve the matter directly with Mr A, Mr L complained to HSBC. He considers Mr 
A used his position of authority as a bank manager, contacting Mr L on his work phone 
number, to gain his trust and that Mr A gave him financial advice.
HSBC was unable to consider Mr Ls complaint in the timeframes provided, so Mr L brought 
his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt uphold Mr 
Ls complaint, as he considered this was a dispute between Mr L and Mr A. In summary, he 
didnt think the evidence indicated that Mr A set out with the intention to deceive Mr L from 
the outset. This was based, among other things, on the friendship the two had for some 
years, the forming of a business together and the continued contact after Mr L had made the 
payment transfer to Mr A.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator  he considers HSBC shouldve had questions as to 
why one of their bank managers was receiving a large sum of money from one of their 
customers. He considers that as Mr A contacted him from a HSBC phone number, he was 
acting in his capacity as a bank manager for HSBC, that Mr A used his position as a bank 
worker to manipulate him and that while this may not follow the common hallmarks of a 
scam, that doesnt mean it isnt one.
As Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ls
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr L, and I appreciate this has had a
significant impact on him, both financially and emotionally. Its understandable, having lost
such a significant sum, why Mr L feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which
HSBC is a signatory of, that was in force at the time Mr L made the transfers.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code
applies in the circumstances of the payments Mr L made and, in particular, whether HSBC
ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Having considered everything provided by both Mr L and HSBC, Ive not seen anything that
I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this
appears to be a case of a friendship and business relationship that has deteriorated and 
sadly ended in a disagreement over entitlement of funds.
Its clear the business agreement Mr L entered into with Mr A didnt go as planned and he 
considers Mr A is holding onto money that Mr A has no entitlement to. And I can understand 
entirely why he feels so strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any 
certainty, that Mr A set out with this intention when the friendship and business was first 
formed.
While I dont dispute that Mr A first contacted Mr L via his HSBC phone number, I havent 
seen any evidence that suggests Mr A led Mr L to believe that his contact was in any way 
affiliated with HSBC  on the contrary I think from the very first messages with Mr L, its clear 
the conversation is on a personal level. Having reviewed all messages, voice recordings and 
videos provided by Mr L, while Mr A at times mentions HSBC, these arent under a pretence 
of providing any financially regulated advice, or suggestive that Mr A is working in an official 
capacity. Rather, mentions of HSBC are linked mostly to the business account Mr A and Mr 
L intended to take, or relating to the payment transfer process between their accounts. While 
I dont doubt that Mr L took some reassurance from investing alongside someone who had 
some banking experience, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L was deceived into believing 
the investments they were making were in any way linked to, protected by, or financially 
advised by HSBC. For example, having reviewed the conversation regarding the taking of 
the bounce back loan, I think its clear Mr A is giving his opinion based on what he would do 
in the circumstances and his own experience in banking  rather than providing any 
regulated advice on behalf of HSBC.
Mr L has said that while this may not follow the conventional hallmarks of a scam, he 
believes Mr A was capable of this from the start. Hes also referred to Mr L recruiting others 
to trade and has provided videos of Mr A encouraging others to join him. While I appreciate 
Mr A may have encouraged others to trade, Ive seen no evidence that Mr A has taken 
money from anyone with the intent to defraud. In this case Mr A is well known to Mr L  Mr L 
being aware of his place of work, his private contact details, his address and sharing the 
responsibility of a business. I dont think this is indicative of the actions an individual would 
take who had the intention from the outset to defraud. 
This isnt to say Im suggesting Mr L has no entitlement to any of the funds Mr A holds  I 
simply dont think its a matter for our service to decide upon and is better suited as a civil 
case where both parties can present their version of events and evidence.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask HSBC
to refund the money Mr L has lost, as I dont think HSBC treated Mr L unfairly when it
decided not to refund him. I appreciate Mr L thinks HSBC shouldve had concerns when Mr 
A received money from a HSBC customer, but there are no regulations that would disallow 
this. While HSBC may or may not have its own expectations on staff and customer 
relationships, this would be an agreement between HSBC and Mr A and not something I 
consider would impact HSBCs liability to Mr L in circumstances such as these. In any event, 
as I havent determined that payments to Mr A were part of a scam, I cant conclude that 
HSBC shouldve done more before processing them.I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. But overall, for the reasons Ive
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr L has lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman