DRN-3812645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage to their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G submitted a claim to their insurer in February 2022, for storm damage 
following Storm Eunice. Aviva sent out its loss adjuster to inspect the damage.
The loss adjuster reported that, in its opinion, the damage wasnt a result of a one-off storm 
event but due to failed mortar on the rear ridge tile line. Aviva declined the claim, saying the 
damage had been caused predominantly by wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and made a complaint. Aviva investigated the complaint and said 
that although it was satisfied that storm conditions had been present, its loss adjusters 
report demonstrated that the storm hadnt been the main cause of the damage, and that the 
damage had been caused mainly by failed mortar and was therefore gradual.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to this service. They 
said repairs had been carried out to their roof in 2019, so theyd maintained their roof well, 
as required by their policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint and ultimately concluded that Avivas declinature 
of the claim wasnt unfair or unreasonable. She said that unless Mr and Mrs G could show 
that the repairs carried out in 2019 included rebedding and repointing of the ridge tile line, 
she was unable to say the primary cause of the ridge tiles breaking away was the storm and 
not gradual deterioration of the mortar or poor workmanship.
As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When our service looks at a complaint about a storm claim, there are three questions to 
consider: 
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened? 
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Were likely to uphold a complaint if the answers to all three questions is yes and were 
unlikely to uphold a complaint if the answer to any of the questions is no. Ill deal with each 
of the questions in turn. 
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred? 
Using the resources this service has access to, Ive checked the weather conditions around 
the time the damage occurred in the vicinity of the insured property. And Im persuaded that 
there were storm conditions present. Aviva hasnt disputed this and has said it was satisfied 
that storm conditions were present. 
Do I agree that the damage claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? 
I think the damage claimed for is the type of damage a storm would usually cause. High 
winds of the force that were present during Storm Eunice could cause ridge tiles to become 
loose and mortar to break away and fall. However, Aviva has been consistent in its assertion 
that whilst the weather highlighted the condition of the roof, the damage in this case was not 
due to a one-off storm event but mainly caused due to ongoing wear and tear. So Ive 
considered this further in the next question. 
Do I agree that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage? 
Aviva didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. Its surveyors notes say 
there was evidence of wear and tear, as the mortar showed signs of decay. And Mr and 
Mrs Gs policy says, It is your responsibility to look after and regularly maintain your 
property. Your policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It 
does not cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time.  
The policy also states under General Conditions, You must keep property that is insured 
under your policy in good condition and repeats Your policy is intended to cover you 
against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does not cover wear and tear or damage which 
happens gradually over a period of time. 
Im satisfied therefore, that the policy makes clear that wear or tear or gradually occurring 
damage isnt covered by Mr and Mrs Gs policy. So the issue in question is whether the 
damage that occurred was caused mainly by the storm, or whether the storm highlighted an 
existing issue with the roof. 
Ive reviewed the photographs that the surveyor provided to support his conclusions. I think 
the commentary given alongside those photos is consistent with what I can see in them. So I 
do think its more likely that the damage to the roof has been caused gradually over time, 
rather than by the one-off storm event. That doesnt mean I think the storm couldnt have 
caused mortar or tiles to become loose. Rather, that the roof shows signs of failed mortar 
under those tiles, which would make it more likely that tiles or mortar would be dislodged in 
storm conditions. 
I say this because I can see evidence of cracking mortar under the tiles, as well as mortar 
debris falling from the ridge tile line. Mr and Mrs G say theyve seen the photographs of the 
damage and cant see evidence of failed or cracking mortar, aside from cracking caused by 
the storm. But I find it more likely that the cracking that can be seen in the photos was 
caused more gradually. Mortar cracks of this nature are usually caused by ageing, 
temperature changes over time, erosion over time by precipitation, or freeze-thaw cycles. 
Mr and Mrs G have provided evidence that the front and back of the ridge tiles were 
repointed, and I dont doubt what theyve said about this. But from what I can see in the 
photos, it appears that the repointing work resulted in a cosmetic repair only, with the mortar joints that were exposed to the elements being sealed by new mortar, and the perishing 
mortar under the ridge tiles remaining in place. So in this case I think its likely that rebedding 
of the ridge tiles wouldve led to a more lasting and effective repair. And had the tiles been 
rebedded (ie. removed entirely, the old mortar scraped away and new mortar added with the 
tiles bedded on top) its more likely they wouldve been able to withstand strong winds.
So Im afraid I dont find Mr and Mrs Gs comments as persuasive as those of the loss 
adjuster who inspected the property. And it follows therefore that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the cracking of the mortar indicated wear and tear, 
which was likely the main cause of the damage. So Im afraid I cant say its decision to 
decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. But Im afraid that for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not requiring Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman