DRN-4171790
The complaint
Mr I complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited 
(Lighthouse) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Lighthouse is represented by a third party in this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill 
attribute the comments made to Lighthouse.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Is employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr I was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He wasnt sure what to do so he got in touch with an 
independent financial adviser who introduced him to Lighthouse. Mr I met with Lighthouse in 
September 2017 and it gathered information about his circumstances and objectives. It 
noted Mr I was soon to be aged 51 and was married with children. That Mr I and his wife 
owned their own home which was mortgaged (part interest-only and part repayment) and 
was due to be fully repaid in seven years. And that Mr I had savings of £7,000 and 
disposable income of around £1,400 per month between him and Mrs I.
It was recorded that Mr I had a low-medium attitude to risk and that he thought he would 
retire at 65 but he wanted the option to retire earlier. Lighthouse noted that Mr I wanted to 
have an income of around £30,000 per year, although his essential expenditure in retirement 
was only expected to be around £15,600 per year. It was further noted Mr I and his employer 
were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-contribution 
(DC) pension scheme, equivalent to around £11,000 per year.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options  they could stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF; join the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In November 2017 Lighthouse advised Mr I to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP. It said 
this would allow Mr I to achieve his objectives of control and flexibility of income, and better 
death benefits for his wife and children. Mr I accepted this advice in December 2017 and 
£759,785.04 was transferred from the BSPS to his new SIPP in February 2018.
In 2020 Mr I complained to Lighthouse about the advice. He thought Lighthouses 
recommendation that he transfer out of the BSPS was unsuitable and may have caused him 
a financial loss. In its response to Mr Is complaint, Lighthouse said the transfer was suitable 
as Mr I and his wifes essential spending in retirement would be met through Mrs Is DB 
pensions and their state pensions. This meant that Mr I had sufficient capacity to accept risk 
on his BSPS benefits and the invested fund was only needed to meet their discretionary 
spending. It also said that the transfer allowed Mr I to access his pension flexibly and pass 
on the remaining pension to his wife and children in the event of his death, which was likely 
to be substantial even if Mr I lived to age 100.
Unhappy with Lighthouses response, Mr I referred his complaint to our Service to 
investigate. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. She thought 
the advice was unsuitable as there was no financial benefit to be had by Mr I transferring out 
of the DB scheme. She recommended Mr I should be compensated based on him having 
opted to join the BSPS2 instead.
Lighthouse didnt agree. It said the Investigators starting point in considering the complaint 
was flawed  it said the presumption of unsuitability was guidance, not a rule, and that the 
overarching consideration was whether the adviser had taken reasonable steps to ensure 
the advice was suitable. It added that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
had required it to carry out a skilled person review of the advice given and an independent 
party had been appointed to carry this out. The skilled person had reviewed the advice, 
using the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) and found the advice to 
be compliant.
Lighthouse also said the Investigators assessment focused too narrowly on whether Mr I 
could improve on or match his BSPS benefits  it said this was contrary to the guidance the 
FCA had issued in 2017 (Consultation Paper 17/16 CP17/16) that firms should not be 
overly reliant on the critical yield when giving advice as this was leading to poor outcomes 
for customers. Lighthouse said the Investigator needed to take the DBAAT into account to 
determine whether the advice was suitable overall. It maintained the advice was suitable as 
the transfer met Mr Is objectives. Specifically it said the transfer gave Mr I flexibility to take a 
lower income from the fund and allowed for the capital value to be passed on to Mr Is family 
on his death. It didnt agree that Mr I was relying on this pension to fund his retirement as it 
was only needed to support discretionary spending.
The Investigator didnt change her opinion so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I didnt think the 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr I. I thought Mr I was likely to receive 
lower overall retirement benefits at age 65 and there were no other reasons that would justify 
the transfer. Ultimately, I thought Mr I couldve met all of his objectives by joining the BSPS2 
and that he shouldve been advised to do so. I recommended Mr I should be compensated 
for the unsuitable advice in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
(FG17/9). However, I stated that the FCA had issued a policy statement on 
28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and guidance for calculating redress 
(https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf) and that these rules would come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
So, even though Mr I had chosen to have his redress calculated under FG17/9 I said that if 
the complaint hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules came 
into effect, I expected Lighthouse to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and 
guidance in any event.Mr I accepted the provisional decision. Lighthouse ultimately didnt accept the decision. It 
said the Skilled Person considered they had completed the DBAAT correctly in line with the 
FCAs instructions as to how it should be used and completed.
Mr I later made some comments about the redress methodology  he was concerned 
calculations carried out now would be impacted by abnormal economic conditions. Mr I 
asked whether his complaint could be delayed until the economy was more stable or until 
the regulators new rules came into effect.
As there is still disagreement, Im now providing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im maintaining my decision to uphold it. Ive considered the points made by 
Mr I and Lighthouse in response to my provisional decision. But overall, I dont think the 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr I, for essentially the same reasons 
I gave in my provisional decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouses actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Lighthouse says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr I. It says that COBS 19.1.6G is simply guidance, not a regulation 
that firms are required to follow and that the Investigator erred by only considering this. 
I agree that under COBS, Lighthouse was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
its personal recommendation to Mr I was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). However, 
additional regulations and guidance applies to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. 
And COBS 19.1.6G says the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Is best interests.Whilst I accept this is guidance and not a rule per se, I dont think the importance of this 
guidance can be overlooked. It is intended to reflect the FCAs view (which it has maintained 
ever since) that retaining safeguarded benefits is in the best interests of most customers  
so it is an important guiding principle for any firm giving advice. And in any event, the FCA 
still requires that an adviser acts in accordance with the best interests of its client under 
COBS 2.1.1R. And I think that this reinforces that advice to transfer out of a DB scheme 
should only be given if it is in the customers best interest to do so.
So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations and guidance here. And having looked at 
all the evidence available, Im not satisfied Lighthouse took reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice to transfer was suitable for Mr I or that it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
Lighthouse carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Is pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr I didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. Mr I had received his 
time to choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been 
provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual revaluation 
pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve been lower.
I note the suitability report says that Lighthouse compared the BSPS benefits instead as it 
considered that if transferring out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr I, then it would also be 
suitable advice to not join the BSPS2 (given the benefits available to Mr I wouldve been 
lower under that scheme). But I still think the benefits available to Mr I through the BSPS2 
shouldve been factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision 
and understood exactly what he was giving up. Instead, the only message Mr I received was 
that his benefits under the BSPS2 would be less than the existing scheme, without knowing 
whether this difference was actually significant or whether it wouldve made a difference to 
his retirement plans.
According to the fact-find and suitability report, Mr I expected he would retire at age 65, 
although he wanted the option to retire early. The TVAS dated 23 November 2017 set out 
the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 7.6% if he took a full pension or 5.97% if he took 
tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. The critical yield required to match the benefits 
provided through the PPF was 4.03% if Mr I took a full pension or 3.68% if he took TFC and 
a reduced pension. But as Ive said above, Mr I remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt 
an option. So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. 
The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG 17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Is 
low-medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The lowest critical yield was 
3.68%, which was based on Mr I taking TFC and a reduced pension through the PPF at age 
65. The critical yield if Mr I took the same benefits through his existing scheme at age 65 
was 5.97% So, if Mr I were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65 the 
critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 5.97%. 
Given the discount rate of 4.1% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr I 
was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the 
BSPS2 as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk, though I recognise its 
possible he couldve slightly exceeded the PPF benefits particularly if he took TFC. But 
I think there would be little point in Mr I giving up the guarantees available to him through a 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, slightly higher benefits than he couldve achieved 
through the PPF. Thats particularly the case given the BSPS2 was likely to be confirmed as 
going ahead, so Mr I would most likely have avoided moving to the PPF in any event.
Lighthouse says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. It says the 
historic growth rates are more reliable. While I havent based my findings on the discount 
rate on its own, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine 
what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 
19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a 
DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. 
So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this wouldve been considered a 
reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Is attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme. I dont think it is 
reasonable to rely on historic growth rates, as past performance is no guarantee of future 
performance.
Lighthouse also says that the relevant critical yield was achievable. But I dont think thats 
the case given Mr Is desire, as per the pension transfer attitude questionnaire (PTAQ), that 
his pension benefits should only be exposed to limited risk. I think he wouldve needed to 
take a higher level of risk to produce returns high enough to ensure he didnt receive lower 
overall benefits in retirement as a result of transferring his pension.
Lighthouse may also argue that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based 
on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same 
basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. And Lighthouse says Mr I didnt want an 
annuity, it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required Lighthouse 
to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up. And I note that in the PTAQ, when asked to rank his priorities, Mr I 
said that Provision for partners and dependents pension was his number one most 
important objective. So, I think the critical yield was a relevant measure as it demonstrated 
the growth needed to provide a fund big enough to secure a guaranteed income for Mr I and 
his spouse.
Furthermore, I dont think Mr I could realistically say with any certainty whether he would 
want to take a regular income at retirement or not  he wasnt expecting to retire for another 
13 years. Im also mindful that most people if asked would express a preference for flexibility 
but that doesnt mean it was in Mr Is best interest to prioritise flexibility over a guaranteed income in retirement for him and his spouse (which he could achieve by taking benefits from 
the DB scheme).
Ive also considered the cash flow forecast that Lighthouse produced, which it says 
demonstrates the transfer was affordable for Mr I and would leave a substantial fund for Mr I 
to pass on in the event of his death. But I can see that the model is based on Mr I 
withdrawing substantially less than the benefits he was entitled to under the DB scheme. So, 
it isnt a fair comparison. I also note that the TVAS showed Mr Is fund would run out at age 
96 if the fund achieved a return in line with the regulators middle projection rate and Mr I 
took a full pension equivalent to the sum he was entitled to under the BSPS (increasing in 
line with RPI). But this doesnt factor in any periods of losses or poor performance. And 
I dont think Mr I could reasonably expect consistent returns of 5% over such a long period of 
time given his low-medium attitude to risk. So, in reality, I think Mr Is funds had the potential 
to run out sooner if he transferred out of the scheme.
Given Mr I was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. And Lighthouse has argued that the FCA made clear in CP17/16 that relying on the 
critical yield alone produces poor outcomes for customers. While Im mindful that this was a 
consultation paper and not new rules, Ive taken into account that there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Is best interests, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons why Lighthouse recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr I. While Mr I had the ability to retire from age 50 under the 
scheme, it's evident that Mr I could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he 
could choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr I had to take those benefits at 
the same time. 
I note Mr Is only debt was a mortgage, although the exact details of this were not recorded. 
But based on what was recorded, it seems this wouldve been paid off before Mr I expected 
to retire and it doesnt appear there was any motivation on Mr Is part to access his pension 
to pay this off early. And even if this were the case, Lighthouse noted that Mr I had 
significant disposable income  I wouldve expected the adviser to identify this as a means of 
reducing his debt further before taking money out of a pension to do so. So, I dont think 
there was any particular need for Mr I to take a large lump sum in retirement, and I note he 
confirmed in the PTAQ that this wasnt a priority. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Mr I 
had any concrete need to take TFC and defer taking his income.
Im also not persuaded that Mr I had any need to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. Lighthouse 
noted that Mr I wanted an income of £30,000 at age 65, although his basic needs were likely 
closer to £15,600 per year. And it said that Mr I was only relying on this pension for 
discretionary spending. Thats because Mr and Mrs Is state pensions and Mrs Is other DB 
pensions wouldve produced an income of around £22,000, covering their essential 
expenditure of £15,600.
Under the BSPS, Mr I could take an annual pension of £44,094 or TFC of £194,820 and a 
reduced annual pension of £29,223. Under the PPF Mr I could take an annual pension of 
£36,311.86 or TFC of £190,217.34 and a reduced annual pension of £28,574.08. So the 
BSPS2 figures wouldve been somewhere in between. Its clear that Mr I wouldve had 
income in excess of his basic needs whichever scheme he took benefits from, when added to Mr and Mrs Is other sources of retirement income. But I dont think this meant Mr I didnt 
need the DB pension income. It provided a substantial amount of guaranteed income that 
wouldve been sufficient to meet virtually all of their essential and discretionary spending.
So, I dont think Mr I had a genuine need for flexibility. But even if he did, I dont think he 
needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement.
I say this because Lighthouses point ignores the retirement funds that Mr I would be building 
up over the next 13 years, through his employers DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr I was 
contributing around £11,000 per year to this pension. And even without taking increases in 
salary or investment growth into account, this pension could be worth over £140,000 after 
13 years. And by assuming modest net growth of 2% over the same period, the funds could 
be worth in the region of £160,000 by the time Mr I retired.
Furthermore, the fact-find noted that Mr I and his wife had savings of around £7,000 (the 
fact-find said their savings had been substantially higher but had been used to pay for home 
improvements). Mr and Mrs I also had disposable income of over £1,000 per month, which if 
added to their savings could have given them potential savings of over £160,000 at 
retirement. When added to Mr Is potential DC pension pot at retirement, Mr I couldve had 
access to over £300,00 at retirement that he couldve used in any way he wanted.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr I could have met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF at age 65. And I think this guaranteed income wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs I to 
enjoy a comfortable retirement with a sufficient buffer to meet unforeseen costs if and when 
they arose in the future. I dont find Lighthouses argument, that Mr I shouldve transferred 
out of the DB scheme because it provided him with too much income, to be credible. So, 
I dont think it was suitable or in Mr Is best interests to advise him to transfer his pension, 
exposing him to the risks of the financial markets, just to have extra flexibility that he didnt 
need. Thats particularly the case given Mr Is DC scheme could provide him with a degree 
of flexibility at retirement and would already be exposed to investment risk.
Death benefits
Lighthouse says that Mr Is key objective was to be able to pass on the value of his pension 
on his death. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr I. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr I might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Mr I about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think Lighthouse explored to what extent Mr I was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr I 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by either the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldve 
been useful to his spouse if Mr I predeceased her. This pension, when added to Mrs Is own 
pension entitlements of almost £14,000, wouldve been sufficient to meet her need of around 
£30,000 per year. I dont think Lighthouse made the value of this benefit clear enough to 
Mr I. The spouses pension was guaranteed and it escalated  and under the BSPS2 the 
spouses pension would be calculated as if no TFC had been taken. Furthermore, this 
benefit was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on 
death in a personal pension was.The TVAS showed Mr Is pension fund would be depleted by age 96 if it grew in line with the 
middle projection rate and he withdrew the same income he was entitled to under the 
scheme. So there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died 
particularly if he lived a long life or investment returns were poor. In any event, Lighthouse 
should not have encouraged Mr I to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement.
In addition, Ive explained above that Mr Is DC pension couldve been worth around 
£160,000 by the time he retired. And it doesnt appear that Mr I had a need to access this 
pension, meaning he could leave it to continue growing beyond his retirement. Mr I couldve 
nominated any beneficiary/beneficiaries of his choosing to receive the remaining funds in 
this pension on his death.
It also seems likely Mr I wouldve opted to take some or all of his TFC entitlement from the 
DB scheme when he retired as that is generally the most tax efficient way to access a 
pension. Mr I would be able to take at least £190,000 and as he didnt have any plans for 
this sum, at least none noted when the advice was given, he couldve added this to whatever 
savings he had and invested it for the benefit of his wife or children in a tax-efficient way 
such as through a trust. Any excess pension income also couldve been redirected in this 
way. So, I think its clear Mr I already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme 
and he couldve made other arrangements (in the ways Ive set out above) to ensure that a 
significant part of his pension didnt die with him. And had Lighthouse explained to Mr I that 
he could meet his objective of providing extra death benefits for his family, without giving up 
his own guaranteed pension or his wifes spouses pension, I think Mr I wouldve been 
satisfied with this.
Lastly, if Mr I genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Lighthouse couldve explored life insurance. This doesnt appear to have been 
explored in any meaningful way and Lighthouses argument that taking out life insurance 
didnt address Mr Is concern that his pension would die with him doesnt hold water. As Ive 
said above, Mr I had multiple ways of ensuring some of his pension could be passed on 
when he died.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr I. And I think Mr I couldve 
met his objective of increasing the death benefits available to his family without risking his 
guaranteed pension.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr I, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. It seems Mr I also had 
concerns about the BSPS2 because of the way his employer had changed the benefits in 
the past. So its quite possible that Mr I was leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF.
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr I. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So it was Lighthouses obligation to 
give Mr I an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.As Ive explained, by the time the advice was given details of BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits 
available to Mr I through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Is 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. And if Mr Is concerns about his employers 
influence on his pension remained, I think it shouldve been explained that his employer and 
the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same. So Mr Is employer didnt 
have the control over the pension Mr I thought it did.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Lighthouse shouldve 
reassured Mr I that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr I through the PPF was still far in excess of the minimum income he 
thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to significantly improve on 
this by transferring out. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to Lighthouse recommending Mr I transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Is desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr I was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on their own. Indeed, the recommendation letter suggested he 
would remain reliant on professional advisers. So, I dont think that having control was a 
genuine objective for Mr I  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
DBAAT Tool
Lighthouse says that the advice needs to be looked at as a whole and that the output of the 
DBAAT tool should be an important consideration here. While I am satisfied I have already 
considered the suitability of the advice as a whole, taking account of Mr Is objectives, Ive 
also considered this.
The skilled person completed the DBAAT tool in September 2020 and this demonstrated the 
advice was compliant. Lighthouse maintains this was completed correctly and in line with the 
regulators guidelines. However, having carefully considered the answers the skilled person 
gave to the questions tool asked, there are several I disagree with which I think could have 
led to a different result. 
For example, in the section titled Examples of unsuitability the skilled person answered No 
to the following examples:
2) The aim of the transfer is to maximise death benefits but there is insufficient evidence 
on the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
3) The aim of the transfer is to access flexible benefits but there is insufficient evidence 
on the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
9) The firm's transfer analysis does not support a recommendation to transfer.
However, I disagree with these answers. Ive explained at length above why I dont think 
transferring out of the DB scheme to maximise death benefits or to obtain flexibility was in 
Mr Is best interests or suitable for him. And Ive also explained that the TVAS showed that 
the transfer wasnt financially viable given Mr Is risk appetite.
Furthermore, the skilled person answered Yes to the following example of unsuitability:1) The client is, or will be reliant on income from this scheme.
As a consequence, the DBAAT flagged the transfer as being potentially unsuitable, but 
ultimately the transfer was deemed suitable overall. The reason given for this was that a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Is core expenditure was around £23,000 per year and the 
majority of this would be covered by other income sources. However, as Ive said above, 
I dont think it is fair or reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs I to take a lower retirement 
income covering their core expenses only and use their other pensions instead in order to 
justify the transfer. And in any event, Mr I said they needed £30,000 per year in todays 
terms in retirement. This would not have been met by their other guaranteed pensions.
It was also suggested Mr I could rely on the benefits hed be accruing in the intervening 
years through his DC scheme to provide the extra income he needed. But I dont think it is 
logical to sacrifice guaranteed benefits and subject them to investment risk when it is 
acknowledged that Mr I would have to rely on other funds which were already subject to 
investment risk to meet his income need in retirement.
Overall, for the reasons given, Im not persuaded that using the DBAAT tool demonstrates 
that the advice was suitable for Mr I.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr I. But 
Lighthouse wasnt there to just transact what Mr I might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr I needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr I was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a SIPP Mr I was, in my view, likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits at age 65. 
And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Is best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of joining the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr I had 13 years before he 
expected to retire, and while he liked the idea of retiring early, this was not something he 
was expecting to do. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be 
offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr I wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. Lighthouse says that any transfer value offered to transfer 
out of the BSPS2 would likely be at a reduced rate, however that wasnt a good enough 
reason to transfer out of the scheme entirely.
Also, Mr I was married, and under the BSPS2 his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement (if Mr I chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Lighthouse shouldve advised 
Mr I to opt into the BSPS2.
Lighthouse may say that regardless of the advice given, Mr I made an informed choice to 
proceed with the transfer and Mr I wouldve transferred in any event.I accept that Lighthouse disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr I, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr I to 
transfer out, and I think Mr I relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr I wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Lighthouses advice. I say this because Mr I was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Lighthouse had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Is fear about the PPF or the concerns he had with his employer 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or 
in his best interests. And if Lighthouse had explained Mr I was unlikely to significantly 
improve on the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he 
could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, as well as 
providing extra death benefits, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
Im aware that in some communications with Lighthouse after the advice was given, Mr I was 
actively chasing Lighthouse on the progress of the transfer. But Mr I had received advice 
from Lighthouse that he should transfer out of the DB scheme. So, I think his 
communications have to be considered in that context. It isnt reasonable to assume that 
hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt into the BSPS2. So, I dont 
think this demonstrates hed have gone against Lighthouses advice.
In light of the above, I think Lighthouse should compensate Mr I for the unsuitable advice, by 
undertaking a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice.
Mr I has raised some concerns about the impact of todays market conditions on the redress 
calculation. He says that this wont necessarily reflect the market conditions when he 
actually retires. I understand Mr Is concerns here. But ultimately the regulator has set out 
what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit 
pension transfer advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr I, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr I would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr I and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr I has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Is 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr I redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr I before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr I receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr I accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr I for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Is end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr I as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Is 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr I the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I will also recommend 
that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr I the balance. 
If Mr I accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr I can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr I may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr I in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr l to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman