DRN-3715395
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after she made a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A has legal expenses insurance with Amtrust as part of her home insurance. In 
December 2019 she contacted it to make a professional negligence claim. She said a 
barrister who she engaged to object to planning permission being granted for a development 
at a neighbouring property didnt highlight key planning reasons for refusal. She thought if he 
had done permission would have been refused. Amtrust accepted there was cover under the 
policy and a number of legal opinions have been sought as to whether the claim would have 
reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy.  
The most recent of those was obtained in March 2022. That didnt advise on the professional 
negligence claim itself but on whether there would have been grounds for a successful 
judicial review (JR) of the decision to grant permission, what its prospects of success would 
have been and whether the local authority would have made a different decision if the JR 
had been successful. 
Counsel concluded there were grounds for a successful JR (in particular because the local 
authority hadnt taken into account a relevant planning policy). And it was likely a judge 
would have quashed the planning consent. But she thought it only 50/50 as to whether the 
local authority would have reached a different decision if it asked to consider the matter 
again. 
Amtrust said for a successful professional negligence claim there needed to be a loss to 
Mrs A. As counsel hadnt concluded the local authority would have reached a different 
decision that wasnt the case here. It didnt agree to fund her claim. 
Mrs A said counsel had only considered whether the local authority would have reached a 
different decision if the grant of planning permission had been overturned after a JR. She 
hadnt looked at what would have happened if her barrister had correctly drawn attention to 
the relevant issues in his initial letter to the planning committee, when sending the 
subsequent letter before claim or prior to any JR application. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust could fairly rely on the most recent counsels opinion in 
relation to the prospects of success of a professional negligence claim as it related to the JR. 
But he thought counsel should also have commented on the other loss of chance points 
Mrs A highlighted. So Amtrust should now ask counsel to do so. 
Amtrust didnt agree. It said the instructions to counsel had been drafted by Mrs A and if she 
now wanted an opinion on the other points shed highlighted it would be reasonable of her to 
pay for that. Mrs A said shed be happy to pay for the barrister to review matters herself but 
as the barrister was instructed by Amtrust she was unable to arrange this herself and would 
need Amtrust to do so. 
Our investigator asked Amtrust if it would agree to this but it said doing so would require it to 
assign resources to a claim that had been fairly declined which it wasnt prepared to do. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate this claim has a long history and a number of different issues have arisen during 
the course of it. However, the complaint Im considering relates to what Amtrust did after the 
most recent counsels opinion was obtained on Mrs As claim. And Ive looked first at the 
terms and conditions of Mrs As policy. 
In common with other legal expenses insurance policies it says its a condition of cover that 
a claim always has reasonable prospects of success. The relevant definition in the policy is 
a greater than 50% chance of the insured successfully pursuing or defending the claim and, 
if the insured is seeking damages or compensation, a greater than 50% chance of enforcing 
any judgment that might be obtained.
In order to establish a successful claim for professional negligence claim its not enough to 
demonstrate there has been negligence by the professional but that that negligence has 
caused a loss to the claimant. In this case I think its reasonable to say any loss would 
potentially depend on whether the planning committee would have reached a different 
decision but for any negligence. So I can understand why Amtrust agreed to ask counsel to 
assess that rather than the professional negligence claim itself; if theres no loss to Mrs A 
then the professional negligence claim wouldnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
I appreciate there have been a number of counsels opinions on this matter with differing 
views on that. But the most recent opinion does conclude the officers report on the planning 
application didnt draw the committees attention to a key planning policy. And a JR on those 
grounds would likely have been successful. But counsel didnt conclude the committee were 
likely to have reached a different decision if the application had been remitted back to them 
for redetermination. 
I dont think its in dispute counsel considered that on the basis of a successful JR 
application and hasnt looked at what would have happened if relevant considerations had 
been drawn to the committees attention at earlier stages of the planning process. And I 
understand instructions for counsel were proposed by Mrs A and then agreed by Amtrust. I 
dont think Amtrust did anything wrong in then relying on that opinion to say reasonable 
prospects of success for Mrs As claim hadnt been established. However, Mrs A then raised concerns about counsels opinion and in particular that she 
thought it likely the planning committee would have reached a different decision if objections 
had been raised by her barrister at earlier stages of the planning process. She wanted 
counsel to consider these points.
In response to our investigators view Amtrust initially objected to asking counsel to 
reconsider matters because of the cost of further advice. However, Mrs A has made clear 
shed be prepared to pay the costs herself. So I dont see Amtrust can rely on that argument. 
However, I have considered whether, on the face of it, there are grounds to think counsel 
might have advised differently if asked to comment on this issue; there would be little point in 
asking Amtrust to arrange for a further opinion if it was obvious the same outcome would be 
reached. 
But I dont think that is the case. In her opinion counsel referenced a policy in the draft local 
plan which she believed would have supported the officers recommendation to grant 
permission for the application. She noted that while the plan was in draft, consultation on it 
would have been in progress when the redetermination of the application was likely to have 
taken place. And that was one of the factors she considered when concluding it was only 
50/50 as to whether the committee would have reached a different decision after a 
successful JR. 
However, the consultation on that draft local plan would still have been two years in the 
future at the time the original decision to grant planning permission was taken. So its less 
clear this is something the committee could reasonably have had regard to at that time. I 
appreciate counsel also referenced other considerations that might have led committee 
members to support or refuse the application. But I dont think its obvious her conclusions 
about what would have happened following a successful JR would necessarily apply to a 
correct consideration of the application at earlier stages of the process.
I appreciate this matter been ongoing for some years and I also accept Amtrust will need to 
assign some claim handling resource in order for further instructions to be provided to the 
barrister. But I dont think its unreasonable to expect it to do that in the circumstances of this 
case. For the reasons Ive explained I think there is at least a possibility counsel might reach 
different conclusions on the outcome the committee would have reached if its attention had 
been drawn to the relevant planning considerations at an earlier stage in the process. 
Given that, and taking into account that Mrs A has agreed to pay for this further advice, I do 
think its fair Amtrust should instruct counsel to comment on these points. That will bring 
finality to this issue and provide assurance to Mrs A that all aspects of her claim have been 
properly considered. 
Putting things right
Ms A has agreed to pay for the cost of further advice from counsel. So on that basis Amtrust 
will need to instruct counsel to comment on whether the decision of the planning committee 
is likely to have been different if the application had been correctly considered at the time of 
the initial decision to grant permission (August 2016) or whether the local authority is likely to 
have acted differently if the relevant issues had been highlighted in a pre-action protocol 
letter in December 2017. 
I can see Mrs A has also said information is available on the breakdown of voting numbers 
by the committee (counsels opinion said she didnt have information on that). So thats 
evidence that Mrs A will be able to submit as part of this process.  If counsel does conclude that a different decision would likely have been reached Amtrust 
will need to progress the claim in line with the policy terms (which I understand is likely to 
involve getting further legal advice on whether the professional negligence claim itself would 
have reasonable prospects of success). 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman