DRN-3632118
The complaint
Miss R complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund £14,300 she lost to an investment scam.
Miss R is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
In August 2021, Miss R came across an investment trading opportunity on a social media 
platform. She states she completed her due diligence on the company, W, and signed up 
once she was satisfied that she was dealing with a legitimate company. 
Miss Rs account manager placed the trades on her behalf, she saw profits and was also 
able to make withdrawals. She says she was then persuaded to trade on the stock market 
and thats when things started going wrong.   
To fund the trades, Miss R initially sent money from a different bank account. She sent the 
funds to a cryptocurrency exchange, C, and converted it into cryptocurrency before 
sending it on to her trading account. Miss R states that when one of the payments to C was 
initially blocked by her bank, she was manipulated by her account manager to open another 
account. Thats when the Revolut account  the subject matter of this complaint  was 
opened. 
Miss R used her Revolut debit card to make three payments to C:
£5,500 on 1 September 2021
£4,400 on 15 September 2021
£4,400 on 21 September 2021
Miss R says she eventually realised shed been scammed when she started incurring losses 
and her account manager became aggressive and asked her to deposit more funds. She 
reported the scam to Revolut but it declined to refund the money. Miss R complained to 
Revolut about its decision, and subsequently referred it to our service. 
Our investigator thought Revolut hadnt done anything wrong in releasing the payments in 
accordance with Miss Rs instructions. And there were no grounds to recoup the funds after 
it was notified of the scam. Miss R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss R, her representative, and Revolut that although Ive only set out the 
key points above, Ive read and considered whats been provided in its entirety. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is 
important because payment service providers, including banks and electronic money 
institutions (EMIs), only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where payments are made to 
a legitimate investment. 
In this case, not much is known about this investment opportunity. Despite 
highlighting that to Miss Rs representative, weve not been provided with any 
documentary evidence (such as emails, screenshots, etc.) of her dealings with W. 
Ive done my own research in to W and other than its namesake, which is a global 
intergovernmental organisation and therefore unlikely to be the investment firm 
Miss R was dealing with, Ive been unable to find any information about it. With such 
limited information, its unclear whether Miss R was indeed scammed. But she claims 
that she was and Revolut hasnt disputed this, so Ive proceeded on that basis. 
The transactions in dispute were authorised by Miss R using her legitimate security 
credentials. Under the relevant regulations, shes considered liable for the loss  
even if she was duped into making the payments  unless theres evidence that 
Revolut could and should reasonably have done more to protect her against the risk 
of fraud and scams and that this would have made a difference to her decision-
making.
In this case, Miss R didnt have an account with Revolut before the disputed 
payments were made. She set it up as instructed and so there was no transaction 
history to compare the payments with. Revolut is an EMI, not a bank or a building 
society. EMIs are set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money. And often 
that will be for larger sums. Considering the individual amounts involved here and the 
gap between each transaction, Im not persuaded the payments were of a nature that 
I think Revolut ought to have intervened. And Im not aware there was any interaction 
between Revolut and Miss R at the time, where any concerns were expressed, that 
would lead me to conclude it ought to have paused the payment and asked her about 
it.
Even if I were to conclude that the initial payment of £5,500 ought to have triggered 
Revoluts fraud detection systems and it should have probed further about the 
transaction (just to be clear, that isnt my finding here), it would still have been for 
Miss R  not Revolut  then to satisfy herself of the legitimacy of the investment. 
Based on the evidence available to me, Im persuaded, on balance, that Miss R 
would still have gone ahead with the payment even if Revolut had intervened. 
I say this because:
oMiss R had already researched the investment before going ahead.
oThere were no regulator warnings registered about either W or C.
oHer account manager was contactable, so had Miss R gone back to them to 
raise questions, it is likely she would have been given a persuasive and 
satisfactory response (as had already happened once, when she was 
persuaded to open an account with another firm). 
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after it became aware of the situation, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered. Miss R made payments to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the alleged scammer. She wouldnt be 
able to make a successful chargeback claim in the circumstances because the firm 
she paid had provided the services as intended (i.e., purchase of cryptocurrency). 
So, I dont think Revolut was under any obligation to raise a chargeback dispute for 
Miss R.  
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss R. Not 
least because the matter has been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a 
lot of money involved here. But having considered the matter very carefully, for the reasons 
given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Revolut responsible for her loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman