DRN-2589759
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc (SA) declined his claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his buildings insurance after he noticed a sheet of lead had 
dislodged on his roof. He reported to SA, by email, that it was likely a storm had caused the 
damage. Mr H heard nothing from SA, despite chasing a response on a few occasions, until 
over two months later.
SA declined Mr Hs claim because there was no record of a storm around the time he made 
the claim. Mr H was unhappy with its response but SA maintained its position. However, it 
offered Mr H £100 compensation for the service shortfall.
Our investigator didnt think SA had done anything wrong because the evidence didnt show 
any storm conditions that mightve caused the damage to Mr Hs roof.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that there was more to the definition of a gust of wind than simple 
wind speed, and he didnt think it was fair that he should have to prove there were storm 
conditions at the time.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, its clear that SA failed to respond to Mr Hs claim for well over two months. I see that 
SA acknowledged this service shortfall and offered Mr H £100 by way of apology. Once SA 
acknowledged the claim, I think it reached a decision promptly and let Mr H know. So, Im 
satisfied the inconvenience was limited to the delay handling the claim in the early stages 
and that SAs offer is fair in the circumstances. I wont be asking it to increase the offer.
 
Moving on, theres no dispute that Mr Hs roof was damaged. The issue is whether it was 
likely caused by a storm, so I must first decide whether the evidence indicates that there 
were storm conditions around the time Mr H noticed the damage.
Mr Hs policy provides cover for storm damage and it defines a storm as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or 
snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm can highlight damage 
rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and tear or due to 
lack of maintenance is not covered.
Ive looked at the weather data each party has provided, as well as various reputable 
websites (such as those Mr H mentioned) which show historical weather conditions. Taking 
the data at face value, the weather stations nearest to Mr Hs home recorded a peak gust of 
40mph six days before Mr H contacted SA. The wind speed was significantly less in the 
subsequent days. Therefore, this data does not meet the policy definition of a storm.
I accept what Mr H said about there being many factors that could mean the gusts were 
stronger around his home, and he talked about wind speed averages, open land and ground 
height. But my remit, here, is to decide whether SA declined the claim based on reasonable 
evidence that there wasnt a storm. I think it did and thats because:
the policy provides a definition which can be applied consistently across all 
policyholders;
SA relies on independent weather data to minimise the risk of subjective 
interpretation, and
that information is publicly available for comparison with the policy definition.
So this, coupled with the absence of any evidence of named storms, or publicised reports of 
unusual weather around the time of Mr Hs claim, I cant say SA unfairly declined the claim.
Mr H described the size and weight of the lead which dislodged and says it cant have 
moved for any other reason than storm damage. And he doesnt think its fair that he should 
have to prove there was a storm. I understand the point hes making but it is a policyholders 
responsibility to show that an insured peril occurred, and Mr H hasnt provided evidence to 
make me doubt the accuracy of the independent weather data upon which SA relied. 
I realise that Mr H is left with no explanation for the damage, but a well-constructed roof 
shouldnt be significantly affected by anything other than extreme weather conditions. Ive 
not seen any evidence of such conditions.
In summary, Im satisfied that SA fairly relied on independent weather data to reach its 
decision to decline Mr Hs claim for storm damage in line with the policy definition. And I 
think its offer of £100 by way of apology for the service shortfalls is fair and reasonable. I 
wont be asking SA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman