DRN-3062000
The complaint
Mr L complains that the hire purchase agreement he entered into with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS) was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr L entered into an agreement with BMWFS in June 2019 to acquire a car. He says he 
discussed the mileage allowance with the broker and was told that this could be adjusted up 
or down during the term of the agreement if needed. Mr L says that on this basis he entered 
into the agreement with an annual mileage allowance of 25,000 miles. In March 2020, he 
asked for the mileage allowance to be reduced to 12,500 a year but was told that reductions 
were no longer available. Mr L raised a complaint which was logged but says he didnt get a 
response. Mr L wants his mileage allowance reduced to 12,500 and this backdated to March 
2020. 
BMWFS provided its business file which showed Mr L called in March 2020 to ask for the 
mileage to be reduced and was told that it wasnt its policy to allow this. 
Our investigator said that the broker wasnt required to explain all terms of the agreement 
and thought the terms of the agreement were clear and included the mileage allowance. He 
thought it more likely than not that there was a conversation about the mileage allowance, 
but he didnt think this induced Mr L into entering the agreement. He thought that had Mr L 
known the mileage couldnt be reduced he would have still entered the agreement with the 
25,000 miles a year allowance. Because of this he didnt think it was fair to require BMWFS 
to allow for the mileage allowance to be changed or to pay compensation in regard to this 
issue.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr L was provided with the service he should have been 
when he raised his complaint. He noted that Mr Ls complaint was closed without Mr L being 
sent a final response letter. Because of this he recommended that Mr L be paid £100 
compensation.
BMWFS accepted our investigators view. Mr L didnt agree with it. He thought a key piece of 
his complaint had been missed. He said he wouldnt have taken the agreement at 25,000 
miles a year had he not believed this could be reduced. He reiterated that as he wasnt given 
correct information at the time of entering the agreement he couldnt make an informed 
decision and so the agreement had been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says a 
lender, like BMWFS, may be liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions by the 
dealer/broker. The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement 
should not have been misrepresented to Mr L. Mr Ls complaint is that the agreement was 
mis-represented and that had he been given correct information at the time he wouldnt have 
entered the agreement with the mileage allowance of 25,000 miles a year. 
I have looked at the agreement and this clearly sets out the terms, including the annual 
mileage allowance. However, Mr L isnt disputing that he agreed to the allowance being set 
at 25,000 miles a year when he entered the agreement. He has said that the terms dont 
explain that the mileage allowance cant be reduced. While I note this point, the annual 
mileage is set for the term of the agreement and details are given about the costs if this is 
exceeded. The explanation documents set out that it is the customers responsibility to 
provide an accurate estimate of their predicted mileage. Therefore, I think that based solely 
on the agreement and explanations document that Mr L was provided with clear information 
about the mileage allowance.
However, not all aspects of the agreement are set out in detail and it is reasonable that Mr L 
would rely on the response to his questions at the time of discussing the agreement. He has 
said that he specifically asked about the mileage allowance and whether this could be 
amended. I have listened to the calls provided by the broker covering the discussions Mr L 
had while he was deciding which car to acquire and on which terms. On several of these 
calls he confirms his need for a mileage allowance of 25,000 miles a year and on one call 
explains why this is needed and that he cant set it lower based on his mileage needs. 
Unfortunately, in the recordings I have listened to I havent heard a discussion in which Mr L 
was told the mileage allowance could be reduced. This doesnt mean I am saying the 
discussion didnt happen, just that I havent heard what information was given in response to 
this question and so I cannot be certain that a false statement of fact was made regarding 
the flexibility of changing the mileage allowance.
If I accept Mr L was told the mileage allowance could be lowered I would still need to be 
satisfied that this information induced him into accepting the agreement. Having listened to 
the calls with the broker these focus on the monthly payments, term, deposit and balloon 
payments. In each case the mileage is confirmed at 25,000 miles and so I think that other 
factors were relevant in Mr Ls decision and as he seemed at the time to be reasonably 
certain of his need for the higher mileage allowance, I do not find I have enough to say that 
had he been aware this couldnt be reduced that he wouldnt have entered into the 
agreement.
Therefore, on balance I do not find I have enough to say that a misrepresentation has 
occurred and because of this I do not find I can uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Mr L wasnt provided with the service he should have been 
when he raised the issue with BMWFS and agree that £100 compensation is reasonable for 
this. 
Putting things right
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services should pay Mr L 
£100 compensation for not providing him with the service it should have when he raised his 
complaint about not being able to reduce his annual mileage allowance.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  
trading as Alphera Financial Services should take the action set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman