DRN-4295509
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had an accident in his van around 200 miles from his home. He called Admiral to report 
the claim. Admiral collected Mr Bs van a few hours later but said Mr B would need to find his 
own way home as his policy didnt provide onward travel. 
When Admiral assessed the claim, it deemed his van to be what is known as a total loss. 
As Mr Bs van was less than 12 months old at the time of loss Admiral dealt with the claim 
under the new vehicle replacement section of the policy. However, Admirals vehicle 
replacement network said a new van would take around 8-10 months to arrive. Because of 
this, Admiral tried to find a like for like replacement but couldnt, so it offered Mr B the market 
value for his van or said he could locate a replacement one himself. 
Mr B located a replacement van which Admiral accepted as a replacement and purchased it 
for Mr B. Mr B then complained to Admiral as the replacement van wasnt of the same 
specification as the van he had previously. He also raised other complaints which included 
how long Admiral had taken to recover his van from the scene of the accident, having to find 
his own way home following the accident, not receiving a courtesy vehicle as expected and, 
lost earnings due to delays in dealing with the claim. He also said his van had been 
recovered to Admirals salvage agent with personal belongings in without him being notified. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It agreed there were delays in 
handling the claim and said it would consider Mr Bs lost earnings if he provided evidence of 
them. Admiral also agreed Mr Bs van had been moved to its salvage agents with his 
belongings in without notifying him. Admiral didnt uphold the other points Mr B complained 
about but did offer £175 in total for its failings. Mr B didnt think this was good enough and 
referred his complaint here. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was partially upheld. He 
recommended Admiral pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
claim handling. However, he thought Admiral had acted fairly in letting Mr B know the 
replacement van wasnt of the same specification as his previous one. 
Admiral agreed with our investigators outcome. Mr B didnt, he said he didnt agree Admiral 
had done what it was required to under the policy. He said this was because the 
replacement van wasnt of the same specification as his previous one because it was 
missing things like the reversing camera.
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr B. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say that in the event of a claim where his van is 
deemed a total loss, and it is less than 12 months old and meets certain criteria that Admiral 
will: replace your vehicle with one of the same model and specification. The terms go onto 
say:
If you do not want us to replace your vehicle, or a vehicle of the same 
model and specification is not available from UK stock, the most we will 
pay is the market value.
Its not in dispute that Mr Bs van met the criteria to be replaced under the New vehicle 
replacement section. Ive therefore looked at whether Admiral met its requirements under 
this section and whether it applied the terms in a fair and reasonable way. I understand Mr B 
doesnt think Admiral has done what its supposed to under this term because the 
replacement van doesnt have some of the specification his previous van had. However, Im 
not persuaded that means Admiral has applied the term unfairly in this particular case. 
I say this as the term says if a van of the same model and specification cant be replaced 
then Admiral will pay him the market value. Admiral explained it could order Mr B a new van, 
but this would take 8-10 months, alternatively it said Mr B could be paid the market value. 
Unsurprisingly Mr B declined both options. I dont think it would be a fair application of this 
term to say a replacement van would take 8-10 months, as Mr B needed the van. So, as the 
policy says it would replace Mr Bs van with a like for like new one, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to look at other options. Which it did. 
Admiral tried to locate a like for like replacement but couldnt and so it asked Mr B if he could 
find another van he would be happy with. I can see Mr B sent details of a few vans to Admiral 
which they discussed. As the replacement vans had additional items Mr Bs previous one 
didnt have, Admiral said they would need to be approved and possibly an upgrade charge 
applied. Through this process, Admiral agreed to purchase one of the vans Mr B sent it. 
Mr B said Admiral should have noticed the van was missing some features that his previous 
one had and let him know how the specification was different. While I understand Mr B feels 
Admiral should have done more, Im not persuaded its acted unfairly here. This is because 
Admiral was unable to provide a like for like and so looked at other options. One was for Mr 
B to find a replacement, which he did. So, while the van doesnt have some of the features 
Mr Bs previous van had, because it was a van Mr B chose and Admiral agreed to, Im not 
persuaded Admiral has done anything wrong by not highlighting to Mr B some specification 
was missing. And so, as Admiral has done more than the policy terms say, which I think is a 
fair and reasonable application of them, Im not going to tell it to do anything else. 
Ive also looked at the poor claim handling Mr B has raised. Hes raised concerns about how 
long it took to recover his van from the roadside, not having onward travel, not receiving a 
courtesy van, not being provided with a hire van, issues with getting hold of Admiral or its 
representatives and also lost earnings. While I may not have listed everything here, I would 
like to assure Mr B I have considered all the points raised. 
Ill first address the loss of earnings because Admiral has agreed to these. I can see Mr B 
raised concerns about loss of earnings due to claim delays. Admiral accepted it had delayed the claim and agreed to cover Mr Bs lost earnings between 25 July 2022 and 31 July 2022 
provided Mr B provided evidence of them to Admiral. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because if Admiral has delayed a claim and caused Mr B lost earnings then its only 
fair it compensated him for this. To do so Admiral would need understand the impact and so 
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Admiral to ask Mr B to evidence his lost earnings 
during this time. 
Ive also considered the onward travel and provision of a courtesy van or hire van. Ive 
looked at what Mr Bs policy covers. When doing so, I can see when his van is deemed a 
total loss, the policy doesnt provide a courtesy van. This is only provided while his is being 
repaired. Furthermore, the policy also doesnt provide cover for a hire van or onward travel 
from the scene of the accident. And while I understand the difficulties this caused Mr B as 
they arent covered by the policy, Im satisfied Admiral hasnt done anything wrong by not 
providing them. 
In regard to the claim delays, there are two aspects to this. One is the delays in collecting Mr 
Bs van from the side of the road and the other is then progressing the claim. I can see Mr B 
isnt happy the incident happened at 6:30pm and Admiral didnt arrive to collect the van until 
around 10pm. While I understand Mr Bs frustration and expectation that ideally his van 
would be collected sooner, Im not persuaded 3.5 hours is an unreasonable time and 
therefore Im not going to tell Admiral to do anything else. 
However, for the poor claim handling, including claim delays. I can see there have been 
occasions when Mr B hasnt been provided with clear information, an example of this is 
around the provision of the hire van. I can also see there are occasions when Mr B has had 
to chase Admiral and not progressed his claim as well as it should. When taking into account 
Admiral has agreed to cover Mr Bs lost earnings, as mentioned above, Im satisfied £300 is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
claim handling. Therefore, Admiral needs to pay this to Mr B if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr B £300 for distress and 
inconvenience and pay Mr Bs loss of income between 25 July 2022 and 31 July 2022, 
subject to Mr B providing evidence of this lost income. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman