DRN-2931652
The complaint
Mr B complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his 
mobile phone insurance. 
What happened
Mr B has a gadget insurance policy underwritten by Assurant which covers his mobile 
phones, amongst other things.
Mr B says his phone started to fail in December 2020, with very short battery life. He asked 
Assurant to repair or replace the phone, which at the time was under warranty.
Assurant asked Mr B to send them the phone. They then told him it had been received with 
damage to the frame, which was cracked. 
They said damage wasnt covered under the warranty. And to get a replacement under his 
insurance policy, Mr B would need to pay an excess of £75.
Mr B wasnt happy with this. He says the phone was undamaged when he sent it in. But 
when he complained to Assurant, they maintained their position and insisted the phone was 
damaged on receipt. So, Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Assurant should refund the £75 excess Mr B had 
paid to get a replacement phone. He thought there was no proof that the phone was 
damaged when it was received.
Assurant disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In some ways, this is a very simple case. I dont think theres any dispute that if the phone 
was in fact damaged when it arrived at the repair centre, the warranty wouldnt apply. In that 
case, either the phone was damaged before Mr B sent it in, or it was damaged in the post 
(and all else being equal, fairness might suggest that Mr B should carry that loss since he 
packaged the phone before sending it).
Assurant would then be perfectly entitled to say the warranty didnt apply and to ask Mr B to 
pay an excess and have a replacement under his insurance.
On the other hand, if the damage happened during unpacking and/or after it had been 
received, then Assurant would be responsible for the damage and should replace the phone 
under the warranty - and without charging an excess.
Im sure both Mr B and Assurant will understand that I cant now identify with any certainty 
when and how the damage to the phone happened. And in resolving this case, I have to 
make a decision based on the balance of probability and whats most likely to have 
happened. 
Also, I dont think, in this case, it would be fair for either party to suggest that I should find in 
their favour if the other party cant prove that the phone arrived already damaged or 
undamaged, as the case may be. 
Fairness suggests the decision should rest on whats more likely to have happened, even if 
that balance is very marginal  i.e. one version of events is only slightly more likely to have 
occurred than the other, due mainly to a lack of any entirely persuasive evidence.
Assurant have provided photographs of the phone after it arrived. The damage is clearly 
visible. Theres been some discussion about whether Assurant can prove the photograph is 
of Mr Bs phone. I think its very likely it is in fact Mr Bs phone.
Assurant have also said that they have a process which requires their agents to properly log 
in a phone when it is received and to note - and document  the state of the phone at the 
time. I dont doubt this - and I dont doubt that Mr Bs phone was properly logged when it 
arrived.
On the other hand, I think its unlikely the phone was damaged in transit in the post. Mr B 
has given a clear and convincing description of the way the phone was packaged. And it was 
very likely protected from any accidental impact or crushing along the way. The damage 
does also appear to be at a particular point in the casing  which might suggest it wasnt 
dropped or crushed.
The only evidence I have about the state of the phone before it was packaged and sent off to 
Assurant is Mr Bs own statement. Hes very clear that the phone was undamaged. The 
version of events hes given us is cogent, consistent and contains no contradictions over 
time. 
So, although I cant be sure, I have absolutely no reason at all to doubt what Mr B tells us 
about the state of the phone before it was sent, or about the packaging he used. Assurant 
havent suggested the packaging wasnt as Mr B describes, so I assume they either 
recognise that it was as he says, or they disposed of it before the dispute arose.
Given the limited evidence I have, I think there are two more credible and possible 
explanations of the damage to the phone. It was either damaged before it was sent, or it was 
somehow damaged accidentally  and possibly without it being noticed at the time - when 
the package was opened by Assurants agents.
If the first explanation is true and Mr B sent the phone already damaged, then he would have 
to be intentionally attempting to deceive Assurant  and our service. And, as I say, I have no 
reason to believe or suspect that is the case. So, it would be unfair for me to come to that 
conclusion unless it were the only possible explanation of how and when the phone was 
damaged.
Im satisfied it isnt, in fact, the only plausible explanation of the damage to the phone. I think 
the damage may have occurred, for example, during the process of opening the package  
particularly given the very secure way in which Mr B says he packaged the phone.
That being the case, on balance, I think it was unfair for Assurant to insist that the warranty 
didnt apply, and that Mr B had to pay the excess to get a replacement phone.
Theyve questioned why Mr B accepted this at first and took the replacement phone on those terms. But hes explained that he had an urgent need for the phone  and why  and Im 
entirely satisfied that he would have looked to get a replacement as soon as possible and 
argue the point later.
Putting things right
Assurant should put Mr B back in the position he would have been in had they accepted his 
claim under the warranty. So, they should return the excess he paid for the further claim 
under his insurance. 
Assurants system notes confirm Mr B paid them a £75 excess.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited must refund the £75 excess Mr B paid them when they 
replaced his phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman