DRN-3616857
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made for the theft of 
his van.  
What happened
Mr Hs van was stolen so he made a claim for theft on the van insurance policy he held with 
Ageas.  As part of the claims process Mr H was told he would need to provide the keys to 
Ageas. He said that he wasnt sure whether he still had a spare key, he mentioned he would 
need to check as it may have been in the van, stolen or in a lock up that he owned. 
Ageas declined Mr Hs claim citing an exclusion in the policy. It said theft would not be 
covered if the keys were left in the vehicle. Mr H said he couldnt be sure the spare key was, 
he just didnt have it to give to Ageas. Ageas maintained its decision but said if Mr H finds 
the key it would reconsider the claim. Mr H was unhappy about this and complained to 
Ageas, but it didnt change its decision. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but let Mr H know he didnt think Ageas had acted 
unreasonably. He was persuaded based on what Mr H had said, it was likely the key was in 
the vehicle and was used to steal it. He said Ageas offer to reconsider the claim if the key 
was found was fair. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. In doing so he 
reiterated that he didnt know where the spare key was. He thinks it was unlikely it was in the 
van but just mentioned that as a possible location when he was asked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reason:
The policy does contain an exclusion that allows Ageas to decline the claim if keys 
are left in or on the vehicle. 
Having listened to the call when Mr H notified Ageas of the loss, Im satisfied he 
didnt say for certain the spare key was in the van, just that it was a possible location 
and that hed have to double check elsewhere.
Mr H reported that spare keys to a family members house and a lock up he owned 
were also in the vehicle when it was stolen. Given these are also important keys, it 
doesnt seem implausible to think that Mr H may have also left a spare key for the 
van inside it as well. So, given Mr H hasnt been able to produce a spare key, I dont 
think Ageas has acted unfairly by relying on what Mr H initially explained about the 
possible location of the spare key.
Mr H reported that he had lots of items in the van at the time, broken glass was found 
on the road and therefore it is assumed a window was likely broken to access the 
van. So, had a key been in the vehicle, its likely this contributed to it being stolen 
rather than simply the van being broken into to steal the contents.
Mr H has my natural sympathy for the circumstances he found himself in at the time 
the van was stolen, and Ive also considered what has been said about his health. 
However, for the reasons I have explained above, Im satisfied that Ageas has 
declined the claim fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  I also 
think it is acting reasonably by offering to reconsider the claim if the spare key is 
found. 
Ive listened to the call where Mr H feels the adviser spoke rudely to him. I accept the 
adviser repeatedly explained Ageass stance on the claim, but I dont believe this was 
intended to be rude. There was little else he could do. Mr H did not accept that 
position but nothing he was saying was going to change the answer he was given. I 
didnt hear any instance of the adviser raising his voice and I thought the call was 
handled professionally in the circumstances.  
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Hs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman