DRN-1684425
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to locate two 
bank accounts.
What happened
This complaint is brought by the estate of Mr C (the estate), through its representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as having been made by the estate directly.
Mr C held two accounts with Barclays. After Mr C passed away in 1995, Barclays said it 
needed to see the Letters of Administration in order to close the accounts. The Letters of 
Administration werent obtained until 2019, at which point the estate provided them to 
Barclays. But, at that stage, Barclays couldnt find any record of the accounts.
The estate wasnt happy about this and complained to Barclays. Barclays said the accounts 
arent recorded on their dormancy register and that theyre likely to have been closed 
following the withdrawal of funds. But, as Barclays only keep records of closed accounts for 
six years, they said there isnt any information available now about how or when the 
accounts were closed. Barclays said they had done all they could to try and trace the 
accounts, but there was no evidence to suggest that they were in funds at the time they were 
closed. 
The estate wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought the complaint to this service. 
The only information the estate has about the accounts is the old cheque books and some 
letters from Barclays covering the period from April 1996 to January 1998. It doesnt know 
what the account balances were. But it wants Barclays to find the accounts and pay out the 
balances.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do anything here. But the estate didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. After reviewing the file, I 
raised some further queries of Barclays and they again attempted to locate the accounts and 
any related funds, with no success. I asked Barclays if they would be willing to make a 
payment to the estate to resolve this complaint and they agreed. But the estate didnt accept 
the proposal, so Im making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the limited information available, Im satisfied that the late Mr C held two accounts with 
Barclays. Im also satisfied that Barclays have made attempts to locate the accounts without 
success. As there is now no trace of the accounts, and the evidence about what happened 
to them is incomplete and inconclusive, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, based on the limited 
information available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Looking first at the status of the accounts, if they arent active (open), then they must either 
be dormant or closed. Barclays have no record of them, despite having the account 
numbers, so theyre not active accounts. Barclays have searched their dormancy register, 
but say the accounts arent recorded there. And they say they only keep records of closed 
accounts for six years. As there is no record of the accounts, I find it likely that they were 
closed more than six years ago.
Turning to the issue of the account balances, again, there is very limited information 
available. The estate is unsure what the balances were but says they may have been 
substantial. But Barclays have been unable to identify any funds belonging to the late Mr C. I 
find it unlikely that the accounts carried a substantial balance. Ill explain why.
If there were significant funds in the accounts, I find it unlikely that they could have been 
closed without Barclays engaging with the estate. Barclays would have needed to transfer 
the money out of the accounts. So, if there was a significant balance, its more likely the 
accounts would have been placed into dormancy. Barclays say they retain dormant account 
balances indefinitely. But the accounts arent recorded on their dormancy database and 
Barclays say they havent found anything which indicates they hold any dormant funds in Mr 
Cs name.
The letters from Barclays dated 30 September 1997 and 9 January 1998 asked about the 
Letters of Administration and said As soon as I have received these documents, I will be 
able to release the balance of the account to you. This suggests there was a credit balance. 
But theres nothing to indicate how much this may have been. 
I havent seen anything which enables me to conclude that the accounts held a significant 
credit balance at the time they were closed. If there was any balance, I find it more likely that 
it was nominal. Thats because I think Barclays would have a record of anything significant 
and wouldnt have been able to close the accounts if they were significantly in credit. Ive 
also factored in the time taken by the estate to contact Barclays and its lack of information 
about the accounts, neither of which I find indicative of a large credit balance. Looking at all 
the circumstances here, I find it likely that the accounts held a zero or very nominal balance 
at the time they were closed.
I cant conclude that Barclays hold any sums on behalf of the estate. But I do think they need 
to do something here to put things right, because their approach to the accounts has been 
inconsistent. On the one hand, the early letters from Barclays said that they couldnt release 
funds or close the accounts without seeing the Letters of Administration. But, when the 
Letters of Administration were provided last year, Barclays said that funds must have been 
withdrawn and the accounts closed already. And they now have no record of the accounts or 
any funds. This leaves the estate in a very unsatisfactory position.
Putting things right
I think Barclays need to pay some compensation to the estate here. Its very difficult to put a 
monetary value on the distress and uncertainty caused by a situation like this. Our awards 
arent intended to punish a business for what has happened but to try and put right so far as 
possible the upset and inconvenience which has been caused. Taking everything into 
account, I think compensation of £150 is appropriate here. I realise that the estate thinks 
there would have been more than this in the accounts. But I havent seen any evidence of 
that. Looking at the situation overall, I think £150 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect 
the impact on the estate of whats happened here.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay £150 to the estate of Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman