DRN-2984922
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H are complaining that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions they didnt 
authorise. 
What happened
On 29 July 2020, Ms C was contacted by someone claiming to be from Monzos 
fraud detection team  they said theyd noticed two fraudulent direct debits and that 
to stop them, theyd need some details from Ms C. 
They sent her a text message, that came up from Monzo, which contained an email 
address. They asked her to forward an email she received to the email address from 
the text. They also asked for her access code. 
After following their instructions, Ms C became suspicious and contacted Monzo via 
its app. Around the same time, two payments left Ms C and Mr Hs joint account  
for £80 and £1,500. 
Monzo refunded £80, as it happened after Ms C notified Monzo about what 
happened, but it didnt agree it was responsible for the remaining losses. It also 
offered to pay £100 as an apology for the service received from Monzo  in reporting 
the fraud on this account, and another thats the subject of a separate but linked 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms C and Mr H arent  
liable for payments they didnt authorise, unless they failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account or to keep their personalised 
security details safe. 
Its agreed Ms C didnt authorise these payments. And I dont think she failed with 
intent to keep their details safe, because she thought what she was doing was to 
protect her account from fraud. 
So the remaining question is whether Ms C failed with gross negligence. Im not 
satisfied she did. 
The caller said they were from Monzos fraud detection team, her genuine bank, and 
they knew personal information about her. They said theyd detected two suspicious 
direct debits  and to stop that, they needed further information. 
Given that shed recently spoken to Monzo via its app about fraud, and it had been 
suggested that her card details were compromised, I can see how Ms C trusted the 
caller and what they told her  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
Monzo point out that the caller didnt spoof its number  instead it came up as no 
caller ID. But I can see why that didnt ring alarm bells. Most people arent contacted 
regularly by their banks fraud team, to be confident how their number appears on 
their phone.  
To stop the attempted fraud, the caller asked Ms C for some information. As part of 
that, they sent a text message that appeared to be from Monzo with an email 
address. They asked her to forward the latest email from Monzo to that email 
address. This allowed the fraudster to login from a new device. 
Monzo highlight theres a warning in the email thats clear what its for and that it 
shouldnt be shared, with a red background. In doing so, it says she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk. 
While I recognise Monzos concerns, Im mindful of the particular circumstances of 
this scam. Ms C explained she was under pressure to act quickly and she wasnt 
given time to read the email  it was only afterwards she realised it was a scam. Ive 
also considered that Ms C didnt need to interact with the email itself  just forward it 
on. And how, by the fraudster sending a text from Monzo, they had cleverly given 
themselves an air of legitimacy as well as giving Ms C the ability to complete the task 
quickly. These circumstances, combined with Ms Cs trust in the caller, mean I can 
see how this unfolded  and I disagree that her actions here meant she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk. 
In saying this, Ive also considered Ms C shared her access code to the app. Shes 
explained how, in the moment, she didnt realise it was the same as PIN, and she 
believed that it was standard procedure. Ive thought about her belief in who she was 
speaking with, and that businesses do have different ways of verifying their 
customers  some involving PINs and passwords  so I understand how this 
happened. I dont think it means Ms C fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done.  
Monzo has also highlighted the length of the call  it doesnt think someone could be 
persuaded in this time. But I dont think its so short that it means Ms C must have 
been significantly careless  indeed, it could also highlight how well they persuaded 
her, and the pressure she felt to act quickly. Ive also considered that it ended 
abruptly, as she realised during the call itself that something was wrong. So this 
doesnt change my mind. 
On this basis, I dont think Ms C failed with gross negligence. So, I conclude that Ms 
C and Mr H arent liable for the transactions and Monzo need to put things right  by 
refunding their losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate them for the time theyve been out of pocket.
Monzo has agreed to pay £100 to recognise the way it handled things after Ms C told 
it about what happened. To be clear, thats in recognition of this account and another 
Monzo account that was affected by the same scam. I think thats a fair reflection of her distress and inconvenience caused by Monzo not 
sorting things out sooner. So I have awarded £50 under this complaint, with a further 
award addressed in a separate but linked decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ms C and Mr Hs complaint and I order Monzo 
Bank Ltd to:
Pay Ms C and Mr H the total of the unauthorised transactions on their joint account 
(£1580), less any amount already returned (which I understand is £80). 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay Ms C and Mr H £50 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman