DRN-3414654
The complaint
Mr W complains about a windscreen Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited fitted to his van. 
Hes unhappy that they didnt reimburse him for the cost of putting things right.  
What happened
Mr W had van insurance with Admiral, which included windscreen cover. On 29 May 2021 
he had a broken windscreen replaced under the policy. 
On 1 June 2021 Mr W complained to Admiral that the replacement screen was distorted at 
the edges. He said it also had a green tint and a bracket for a rear-view mirror  and that this 
wasnt correct for his van. He felt the only way to resolve this was to replace the screen with 
genuine glass supplied by the vehicle manufacturer, which hed requested from the start.
Mr W says that, on 7 July 2021, Admiral emailed him saying they were happy for him to use 
an alternative repairer, but that theyd like an independent assessor to inspect the vehicle so 
they could recover the costs back from the original repairer. 
On 7 August 2021 Mr W had the windscreen replaced by another company, A. He sent the 
invoice to Admiral, but they said they wouldnt reimburse him. They said this was because 
the van hadnt been examined by an independent assessor before the windscreen was 
replaced - and A hadnt noted any damage when they removed it. They said that, without 
any photographic evidence of the problem with the windscreen, theyd be unable to 
reimburse Mr Ws costs.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Admiral to have fitted the windscreen that their 
system recommended for Mr Ws van. But she didnt think theyd been clear as to what 
theyd require in order to reimburse him for replacing it. She noted that their email to Mr W 
said theyd like an assessment, instead of saying they needed it. And that no picture or 
video evidence had been requested until after the windscreen was replaced. So, she thought 
Admiral should reimburse Mr W for the cost of the replacement windscreen.
Admiral disagreed. They said that, on 28 June 2021, Mr W told them hed made an 
appointment with A to have the windscreen replaced. And that Admiral responded saying 
theyd instructed an independent assessor to inspect the vehicle, to confirm whether there 
were issues with the glass. They said the assessor told them on 15 July 2021 that Mr W 
wasnt happy for them to inspect the vehicle  approximately four weeks before he had the 
glass replaced. Admiral asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
On 4 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision saying:
The terms on which Admiral provided insurance cover to Mr W are set out in his policy 
booklet. This states that, although Admiral may use glass that isnt provided by the vehicles 
manufacturer, theyll use glass of a similar standard and quality. Mr W says the windscreen 
Admiral fitted was defective and incorrect for his vehicle. Ive reviewed the available 
evidence in detail to see whether it supports that complaint. 
Admiral say they believe they fitted the correct windscreen for Mr Ws vehicle. Ive seen a 
copy of the invoice Mr W was given by their windscreen repairer. He says this shows that the 
windscreen they fitted was for a different model van  and that it had a green tint. Mr W has 
shown us a photo of his van with this windscreen fitted. 
Although Ive examined it carefully, I dont find this photo to be clear. I cant say that it shows 
whether any tint in the windscreen matched the other windows, or whether there were any 
other issues. Ive seen no expert opinion as to the suitability of this windscreen for Mr Ws 
van. As invoice doesnt mention any problem with the windscreen they removed. Admiral 
have told us that A confirmed they had no record of any fault  only that Mr W wanted 
genuine glass supplied by the vehicle manufacturer.  
For these reasons, Im unable to say Admiral did anything wrong in fitting the replacement 
screen. And without evidence of a problem with the windscreen they fitted, I see no reason 
for them to cover the cost of replacing it again. That leads me to consider whether Admiral 
clearly explained what theyd need to see in order to reimburse Mr W for the cost of another 
replacement windscreen. 
Admiral have told us that their windscreen repairer made multiple attempts to contact Mr W 
so they could look into the issues hed reported, but he didnt respond to their calls or 
messages. Ive seen a copy of Admirals records, which show Mr W called them on 5 July 
2021 requesting an update on his complaint. And that he said he didnt want to go back to 
Admirals windscreen repairer under any circumstances. 
Im satisfied that Admirals email dated 7 July 2021 was sent in response to the concerns Mr 
W had expressed about going back to their windscreen repairer. It said: I am happy for you 
to use an alternative repairer, but I would like an independent assessor to inspect the vehicle 
so we can recover the costs back from the original repairer. If you have any questions, 
please do not hesitate to contact me. 
The evidence Ive seen confirms that the independent assessor contacted Mr W between 7 
and 15 July 2021. And that Mr W told the assessor he wasnt prepared to make the vehicle 
available for inspection, as he felt hed already wasted enough time dealing with the claim 
and his van was in constant use for work. I appreciate that Mr W found Admirals request 
frustrating. But I do think he could have contacted them to ask whether any other form of 
evidence would be acceptable. 
Mr W feels Admiral simply said theyd like an independent assessor to look at the vehicle  
not that they needed this to happen. Ive given careful thought to the point hes made. But, 
although it was expressed as a request rather than a demand, Im satisfied that the wording 
Admiral used explained that there was a process to be followed if Mr W wished to use an 
alternative repairer. And that he could contact them again if he had any questions about that 
process.
And if any doubt remained, I consider Admirals final response letter to Mr Ws complaint to 
have made the position clear. This letter is dated 20 July 2021  well over two weeks before 
he had the windscreen replaced by A. It says Admiral were unable to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint about the windscreen because hed declined the inspection by the independent 
assessor theyd instructed. It went on to say that, if Mr W could provide evidence of the poor 
standard of repair, he should forward it to them.When Admiral declined to reimburse Mr W, he offered to provide a letter from his employer, 
confirming that theyd seen the defects in the windscreen. He said that, as his employer 
performs aircraft surveys and maintenance involving windscreen inspections and 
replacements, he felt their expertise and knowledge to be far superior to that of Admirals file 
handlers. Admiral said a letter wouldnt be enough to prove the windscreen theyd fitted was 
faulty without supporting images showing the faults present and reasons why replacement 
was necessary. 
For the reasons Ive set out, I consider Admiral to have made it clear to Mr W, in good time 
before he had the windscreen replaced, that they needed evidence confirming there was a 
problem with it. So, Im unable to say it was unfair for them to decline to cover the cost of 
replacing it again. And, after the windscreen had been replaced, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Admiral to decline to accept a letter from Mr Ws employer as evidence that 
it had been faulty. 
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint and invited both parties to send me any further 
comments or information theyd like me to consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt respond. Mr W strongly disagreed with my provisional decision. Ill summarise 
the main points he made:
He hadnt been told he had to have the vehicle inspected by an independent 
assessor before having the windscreen replaced. He didnt refuse to have it 
inspected, he told them that he wouldnt sit in all day waiting for them to turn up; 
losing a days wages and use of his vehicle.
The original glass supplied hadnt called him several times  they didnt call him at 
all.
Admiral told him to have the windscreen replaced by a supplier of his choice. If they 
specifically wanted further evidence, they should have said they need it, not want it. It 
wasnt for him to go out of his way to ask them what they needed.
The glass supplier he used had no reason to make note of the distortion to the glass 
as they were only instructed to replace it.
The windscreen was distorted and incorrectly supplied. The glass was green tinted 
and included a bracket for a rear-view mirror, whereas his vehicle has clear glass 
and has no rear-view mirror. The vehicle is available for inspection, but at a specific 
date, time and location.
An expert report on the deformed, incorrectly supplied windscreen was offered but 
not accepted.
He was now £1,500 out of pocket due to Admiral only telling him that he needed to 
have the vehicle inspected or to provide photographic evidence after the windscreen 
was replaced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr W for taking the time to respond to my provisional findings. But having 
considered the points hes made Im not persuaded that I should change my decision. I realise this will be frustrating for Mr W. But I havent seen any supporting evidence showing 
that the replacement windscreen Admiral fitted was faulty. And in the absence of expert 
evidence, Im unable to say that it was unsuitable for Mr Ws van. 
I can see theres some dispute as to whether the original glass supplier tried to get in touch 
with Mr W. But by 7 August 2021, when Mr W had the windscreen replaced again, Im 
satisfied that Admiral had made it clear that they wouldnt uphold his complaint about the 
windscreen theyd fitted without some evidence of what was wrong with it. I dont find it 
unreasonable for them to decline to accept a report about this from Mr Ws employer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman