DRN-3919112
The complaint
Mr G complains Capital One (Europe) plc refused to offer him support or set up a repayment 
plan following a previous complaint he brought to our Service. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these 
reasons:
The previous complaint Mr G brought to our Service told Capital One to pay him 
£150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the contradictory 
information theyd sent. Wed normally expect a financial business, like Capital One, 
to carry out a resolution wed suggested within four weeks of them being made aware 
of the consumers acceptance. Capital One has sent us evidence that shows they 
paid the award within that timeframe, so I cant agree they didnt do what wed asked 
to resolve Mr Gs complaint.
I appreciate Mr G wants to set up a repayment plan for his defaulted account. 
However, how that should be done wasnt commented on in our previous complaint. 
So, I dont agree with Mr G that Capital One put obstacles in his way with this. Ive 
seen copies of the correspondence Capital One sent Mr G in early 2022 and their 
final response letter. In these letters, Capital One provided a number for their 
specialist team that Mr G could call if he wanted to set up a repayment plan. They 
also provided him with details of organisations who could help him manage his 
finances. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr G had the information he needed to be able to 
contact the correct team to set up a repayment plan.
Ive listened to the calls that took place in October 2022 that Mr G has complained 
about. Having done so, I didnt hear either of the managers Mr G spoke to refuse to 
setup a repayment plan. During these calls Mr G was speaking about the time it was 
taking Capital One to resolve things following the previous complaint we dealt with. In 
the second call, he also complained about what happened in the first call and he 
insisted on receiving a final response letter so that he could bring a new complaint to 
our Service. I appreciate Mr G was very frustrated, but in the second call in particular, 
he spoke over the manager several times and didnt let him finish his sentences. I do 
think this contributed to the breakdown in the conversation and the manager not 
being better able to explain the next steps or why things were progressing as they 
were. And given that in the second call Capital One were acknowledging a new 
complaint Mr G had raised, I dont consider it was wholly unreasonable that a 
repayment plan wasnt setup at the same time. Thats because complaints and 
repayment plans are often dealt with by separate departments. 
Given the above, I dont consider Capital One needs to do anything further to put 
things right. If Mr G wants to set up a repayment plan, he should call Capital Ones 
specialist team on the number they provided.  
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Gs frustrations, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman