DRN-3895483
The complaint
Mr B complained about delays that occurred during the process of arranging an ISA transfer 
from Citibank UK Limited (Citi) to a third party. Citi admitted delays and service failings in 
respect of which it offered to pay Mr B £200 compensation. Mr B didnt feel this was 
sufficient redress and, in particular, he was unhappy that Citi didnt take into account 
investment loss. 
What happened
Mr B held a Citi stocks and shares ISA. Briefly, on 4 November 2021, Mr B sent a transfer 
request to Citi to start the ISA transfer process which required Citi to encash his existing 
investments and transfer the cash value to his new financial provider. Citi initially rejected 
the transfer request and there was an exchange of messages between Mr B, his new 
provider and Citi. Mr B resubmitted his transfer request. He continued to chase for 
information about the transfer. Ultimately, the transfer from Citi to the new provider 
completed on 28 January 2022.
Mr B complained to Citi about the way it had handled his transfer request. Citi upheld his 
complaint and agreed that Mr Bs service request could have been handled better from his 
initial point of contact on 4 November 2021. Citi apologised to Mr B for the level of service it 
had provided to Mr B and offered to pay him £200. 
Mr B didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and he brought his complaint to us. In 
particular, he said his ISA lost significant value after 4 November when he submitted his 
initial transfer and he wanted reimbursement for this investment loss, along with 
compensation for his time, emails and phone calls hed had to make.  
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She felt that the £200 payment Citi had 
offered was fair redress for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B by Citis delays in dealing 
with the transfer. But she thought Citi needed to do more to put things right and 
recommended it should also reimburse Mr Bs investment loss. Our investigator set out the 
way she felt this should be calculated and asked Citi to do the necessary sums.
Citi provided a calculation showing how it had arrived at a figure for the proposed redress 
amount which our investigator felt was fair and she passed on the details to Mr B.
Mr B agreed with the investigator and so we informed Citi that Mr B had accepted Citis 
calculations and we asked Citi to confirm it would be making this payment, on top of the 
£200 compensation it had already offered, in settlement of Mr Bs complaint. 
Citi told us it was still reviewing the case and asked for a further extension of time to 
respond. This was some time ago and since it provided its loss calculation, even though 
weve been in touch again, Citi hasnt responded further. So as the complaint isnt resolved, 
it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that Citi should have completed his transfer request within 
30 days and, had it done so, he would have been better off in money terms as he lost out 
when prices had dropped by the time Citi sold his investments on 21 January 2022. He 
would also have avoided a significant amount of anxiety about what was happening with 
his transfer and the inconvenience and trouble he was put to having to chase things up 
when the transfer didnt progress as it should have done.  
Both parties seem to be broadly in agreement about what happened, and Citi upheld 
Mr Bs complaint, so I dont feel theres any need for me to say more about the background 
circumstances. Ive concentrated in my decision on what Citi is required to do to put things 
right for Mr B. In other words, what it needs to do now to put him in the position he would 
have been in but for Citis failure to deal with the transfer on a timely basis. 
But for Citis admitted delays, its reasonable to expect that Mr Bs investments should all 
have been sold by 16 December 2021 at the latest. A comparison between the selling 
prices Mr B actually achieved and what he could have sold his investments for on 16 
December 2021 shows he lost out financially overall. 
Citi offered Mr B a payment of £200 in recognition of admitted shortcomings in the way it 
had handled his transfer request on 4 November 2021 and to reflect Mr Bs subsequent 
client service experience. This didnt however include taking into account the impact of 
Citis delays on the selling prices Mr Bs investments achieved when Citi sold these in 
order to be able to complete the cash ISA transfer in line with Mr Bs instructions.
I find its fair and reasonable in these circumstances to expect Citi to pay redress to cover 
Mr Bs resulting investment loss in addition to making a payment to reflect the impact on 
Mr B of its poor service. 
Citi has provided calculations showing that after offsetting gains Mr B made on some of his 
investments in the run up to selling them, overall the fall in value on the remainder of his 
investments meant he made a net loss of £4403.95. Looking at the way Citi has worked 
this out, this seems fair and reasonable to me. 
I've carefully taken into account the worry, frustration and inconvenience Mr B undoubtedly 
experienced as a result of Citis service failings and the extra trouble he was put to having to 
chase things up in order to progress the transfer. On balance, I think the £200 offered is fair 
compensation for this.
Mr B has confirmed he will accept a payment of £4403.95 to reflect his investment loss 
along with the £200 Citi has already offered, to settle his complaint. 
So, to put things right, Citi should pay these amounts to Mr B. 
 
Putting things right
Citi should, if it hasnt already done so, obtain up to date bank details from Mr B and his 
payment instructions and then pay him £4,603.95 in total (£4403.95+£200). My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Citibank UK Limited to pay Mr B as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman