DRN-3637882
The complaint
Mrs M has complained through her representative, Mr M, about the way Vitality Life 
Limited handled her serious illness claim under her life and serious illness plan with them. 
Shes also complained that Vitality have paid less on the claim than she was expecting.
What happened
Mrs M took out a life and serious illness plan with Vitality through an Independent 
Financial Adviser in 2016. The sum insured under the plan for both life and serious 
illness cover was £221,000 and the plan was on a decreasing term basis, meaning the 
sum insured decreased year on year roughly in line with Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. Mrs 
M made a successful claim for a serious illness under the plan in 2017 and was paid 
50% of the sum insured at this time. She received £108,340.07 in settlement of the 
claim. Following the claim Vitality reduced the sum insured under the plan to 
£108,340.07. They also reduced the premium to £47.83, which was an error, as the 
premium should have remained the same. But  as far as I can see - Vitality didnt send 
a communication to Mrs M to let her know about these changes.
On 7 July 2018 Vitality provided Mrs M with an anniversary statement for her plan. They 
did this by sending it to Mrs Ms secure inbox on the Member Zone of their website and 
sending an email notifying Mrs M of this. This stated the benefit amount for life and 
serious illness cover was £317,892.45. It showed the premium as £47.83. According to 
Vitalitys records this was first viewed by Mrs M on 10 July 2018.
Mr and Mrs M used the majority of the money from Mrs Ms first claim to pay for 
an extension to their home. They paid an up-front deposit for this on 19 July 
2018.
On 7 July 2019 Vitality sent another anniversary statement to Mrs M using the same 
method as before. This showed the new benefit amount for life and serious illness cover 
for the coming year as £259,240.74 and the premium as £46.88. According to one of 
Vitalitys letters to Mrs M she first viewed this document on 8 July 2019. Although, the 
records Vitality have provided to us suggest she didnt do this until 14 October 2020.
In June 2020, Mrs M made a claim through her financial adviser for another serious 
illness. She was asked to provide a claim form and attend an interview with a nurse. The 
claim form included a request to ask Mrs Ms treating specialist to provide a report. There 
was a delay in this report being provided and eventually Vitality wrote to the consultant to 
ask her to provide it. Vitality received the report in mid-September 2020. It then took them 
until 6 October 2020 to assess it and let Mr M know they would not be paying the claim 
without further evidence. Mr M was very unhappy about this and eventually persuaded 
Vitality to pay the claim on 8 October 2020 based on the medical evidence they already 
had.
Vitality paid £10,122.04, plus interest, in settlement of the claim. This was on the basis that 
theyd realised the benefit under the plan had been incorrectly increased at its 
anniversaries in 2018 and 2019 and by the time of the claim it should actually have been 
£101,220.04. And the illness fell in severity level of F, which warranted a payment of 10% 
of the sum insured.
Mrs M complained about this through Mr M, as she was expecting to receive around
£25,000. This was because she had accessed the anniversary statements and had seen 
the benefit was £259,240.74 for the period the claim was in. Mr M also complained about 
the way the claim had been handled, suggesting it was not handled very well and Vitality 
had tried to avoid paying anything right at the end of an arduous process.
Vitality accepted there had been an error with the anniversary statements. But they 
pointed out the premiums had also been too low. They said that, in view of this, whilst 
they were sorry about the error, they were satisfied Mrs M had been paid the right 
amount and been adequately compensated for any loss of expectation, as they did not 
intend to reclaim the premiums.
Mrs M complained to us through Mr M. He said that Vitality had handled her claim and the 
complaint about it poorly. He believes Vitality should honour the terms and conditions of 
the plan as per the anniversary statement and pay out a further amount to bring the 
payment up to 10% of the benefit shown on the one provided in July 2019. He also wants 
an explanation for the error and compensation for the inconvenience and length of time 
Mrs M was left underinsured.
Two of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint. Neither of them thought it should 
be upheld. This was because neither thought that Mrs M had been prejudiced by Vitalitys 
error. And they thought what shed saved in premiums was adequate compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience Mrs M had experienced. This was on the basis that Mrs M 
most likely couldnt have increased the benefit for serious illness cover or got additional 
cover to bring her benefit back up to the level it was at before her first claim. And they 
thought it was unlikely shed have increased the life cover, as this would have been 
significantly more expensive.
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision on behalf of Mrs M. He said he and Mrs M 
would have acted differently to cover themselves if theyd realised the benefit under her 
plan had reduced after her first claim to 50% of the sum insured. And he thought the 
compensation in the form of the premium saving is derisory. In summary, he didnt feel 
our investigators had fully understood or taken all of his points on behalf of Mrs M into 
account.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July and set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
Ive looked at the notes Vitality have provided on their handling of Mrs Ms claim. There 
were clearly some problems and delays; for example, the nurse Vitality appointed told Mrs 
M that a letter from the hospital was sufficient to confirm her diagnosis in place of the 
specialist report, when this was not the case. And it doesnt look like Vitality asked for the 
treating specialists report until Mrs M chased what was happening on the claim by email. 
And even when they did ask for it, they didnt specifically ask whether, in the specialists 
opinion, Mrs M had had a raised cortisol level for six months, when this was going to be 
key to their decision on her claim.
And  when they got the specialist report - Vitality told Mr M it had been referred for 
assessment and that this normally takes 10-14 days. But, they didnt tell Mr M this didnt 
include weekends. Unfortunately, the report didnt include all the information Vitality 
needed and they told Mr M that they were deferring Mrs Ms claim until they had 
confirmation of raised cortisol levels for at least six months.Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ms call with Vitality about this on 6 October 2020 and he 
clearly explained that imaging would not show cortisol had been raised for six months. 
And it was quite difficult for him to get the claims handler to understand this and explain 
what was needed. So, I do think the service could have been better on that issue. And it 
does seem to me Vitality should have been able to say from the treating specialists letter, 
which they already had at this point, that Mrs M had a raised cortisol level for more than 
six months. Or  at the very least  Vitality should have been clear this was the evidence 
they needed at the outset.
The Vitality claims handler did come back the same day and tell Mr M the Chief Medical 
Officer had said the claim should be accepted, but it needed to go to management for a 
final approval. Mr M was finally told it had been approved on 8 October 2020. This means 
it took Vitality around three weeks from when they received the specialist report to when 
they approved the claim. But I do think they could have made their decision on the claim 
much more quickly if theyd been clearer on the information they needed to approve it.
Also, its clear that to find out what was happening and move the claim along Mrs M or Mr 
M had to keep chasing Vitality. So I dont think Vitality were proactive enough or kept Mr 
and Mrs M properly informed on Mrs Ms claim.
This all means I accept Vitality could have provided a much better service when 
assessing Mrs Ms claim and been more proactive in providing updates and asking for the 
information they needed to approve it. And I accept their poor service would have caused 
Mrs M a great deal of unnecessary distress in an already very difficult time due to her 
illness.
I also think the incorrect anniversary statements Vitality provided created a reasonable 
expectation in Mrs Ms mind that shed receive around £25,000 for her claim in 2020. And, 
whilst I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Vitality to be bound by what was 
clearly an administrative/system error, I do accept Mrs M should be compensated for the 
distress and disappointment she experienced when she found out this wasnt the case.
However, it is clear that because of an error by Vitality the monthly premium under Mrs 
Ms plan was reduced in error after her claim in 2017 and this saved her around £1,400. 
Vitality have said that they dont expect Mrs M to repay this. This means Vitality have 
effectively already provided £1,400 in compensation for their errors, including providing 
the incorrect anniversary statements. This is a significant amount of money and I think it 
is adequate to compensate Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Vitalitys poor handling of her claim and the error they made with the anniversary 
statements.
These issues would also have caused Mr M a great deal of frustration, but I cant award 
compensation for this, as he is not the person complaining or the holder of the plan the 
claim is under, which this complaint is about. I appreciate Mr M thinks the compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by Vitalitys poor handling should be higher, but 
I am satisfied £1,400 is appropriate and in line with the sort of awards we normally make 
for this level of distress and inconvenience.
I also appreciate Mr and Mrs M have suggested the incorrect anniversary statements 
affected their financial planning. But, I dont think they did. This is because by the time Mrs 
M saw the incorrect anniversary statement Vitality provided in 2018 theyd already agreed 
to build a large extension. I appreciate they hadnt paid the deposit at this time, but theyd 
presumably paid for plans, got planning permission and committed with the builder. So, I 
doubt very much a correct anniversary statement showing that the sum insured under Mrs 
Ms plan was about half what they expected it to be would have led to them changing their plans at this stage.
However, I do think the fact Vitality failed to advise Mrs M after her claim in 2017 that the 
sum insured under her plan had reduced by 50% as result of the claim was a serious 
error. This is because I think Vitality had a duty to advise Mrs M of this once it had paid 
the claim, despite the fact the terms and conditions of her plan stated this is what would 
happen. This is because, whilst a consumer may be aware of the main plan terms at the 
outset, they would not necessarily recall them as time passes. So, theyd need to be 
reminded in a clear, fair and not misleading way of such an important change in the cover 
under their plan following a claim.
I accept the fact Vitality didnt do this most likely left Mr and Mrs M thinking the sum 
insured under Mrs Ms plan would be enough to cover what was left on their mortgage 
when Mrs M received the money following her claim in 2017. And that this could have 
led to Mr and Mrs M acting differently.
I dont think Mrs M could have topped up her serious or critical illness cover if shed 
realised her sum insured was less than the amount left on their mortgage. I think this 
because I dont think any insurer would have been willing to provide her with cover, 
knowing shed already suffered from two serious illnesses. And, whilst I think she could 
have topped up her life cover, it would have cost a great deal more than previously each 
month. So, I dont think Mrs M would have done this.
I explained this to Mr M and asked him  in light of this - what theyd have done 
differently if theyd realised that Mrs Ms plan only actually covered half their mortgage 
after Mrs Ms claim in 2017. He told me theyd have had a smaller extension built, 
probably using about half the money from Mrs Ms claim. And then theyd have invested 
the other half of the money somehow to give them some financial back up if Mrs M did 
have a further serious illness. He also explained how this was important to both of them 
due to the needs of their children.
It is obviously difficult to know what Mr and Mrs M would have done in reality, but I do 
think the fact Vitality didnt send anything out after Mrs Ms claim in 2017 to tell her the 
sum insured under her plan had gone down did have some impact on Mr and Mrs Ms 
thinking. And if Mrs M had received something telling her the sum insured had reduced, 
Mr and Mrs M could have decided to go for a smaller extension in 2018 and kept some 
of the money from Mrs Ms claim for additional financial security.
So Mr and Mrs M could now be in a worse position financially than would have been the 
case if Mrs M had been notified of the reduction in the sum insured in her plan after her 
claim. And I accept this is frustrating and distressing for Mrs M. But, I do have to balance 
the distress of this against the fact that she and Mr M wanted, and do now have the 
benefit of, a bigger extension to their home. Nonetheless, I think the distress does warrant 
a further compensation payment to Mrs M in addition to the £1,400 Vitality has effectively 
already provided. And I think a further £500 is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 21 July to provide further comments and evidence. 
Vitality have come back to say they are happy to pay the additional £500 Ive suggested.
Mr M has provided some comments. Hes said that whilst Mrs M is willing to accept the 
compensation Ive suggested, they dont think it fully reflects the level of distress Vitalitys 
error caused. Hes said the incorrect anniversary statements did affect their financial 
planning, as they could have altered their plans and had a smaller extension built without 
incurring further costs or needing to re-apply for planning permission. And they could have spent less on other internal home improvements. Mr M has also said they would have made 
some different financial decisions. And they dont fully understand the point Ive made about 
them enjoyng a bigger extension, as they dont feel this puts them in a better financial 
position than if theyd paid off some of their mortgage. In summary, Mr and Mrs M dont feel 
the outcome Ive suggested puts them back in the same financial posiiton theyd have been 
in if Vitality hadnt made errrors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased Vitality have agreed to pay the further £500 Ive suggested. Ive noted Mr Ms 
comments, but I still think the £500 Ive suggested is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the error with the anniversary statements and 
Vitalitys failure to inform Mrs M the sum insured under her policy had gone down after her 
claim in 2017. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M could probably have altered their plans and had a 
smaller extension built and that they may have been in a better position financially. And the 
fact they can enjoy the use of a bigger extension doesnt alter this. But, it is nonetheless a 
benefit they may not have had if Vitality hadnt made any errors. And I need to take this into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable overall. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, Im satisfied the additional £500 Ive suggested in compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and make Vitality 
Life Limited pay her a further £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman