DRN-2820119
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled his motor insurance 
claim. Hes unhappy its unwilling to pay a cash settlement to replace the tyres when it has 
previously offered and paid a cash settlement for another component, instead of insisting on 
replacing it.
Mr R is being represented by his father in bringing this complaint. 
Reference to Aviva also includes agents acting on its behalf.  
What happened
In November 2019, Mr R reported an accident to Aviva and submitted a claim for damages 
to his van.  There were delays in arranging an inspection, but Aviva ultimately accepted 
Mr Rs claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out through one of its approved repairers. 
Mr R was provided a courtesy vehicle while his van was being repaired. 
The repairs were completed in June 2020, but Mr R wasnt happy with the work and 
highlighted the outstanding issues to Aviva. These included the side step being repaired 
instead of being replaced and the passenger side tyres being replaced with incorrectly rated 
tyres. 
Aviva agreed to a cash settlement for the side step as it was unable to source the same part. 
It also agreed to cover the cost of other parts Mr R had bought himself. And it paid £80 
compensation to recognise Mr Rs dissatisfaction following the repairs. In relation to the 
tyres, Aviva accepted the replacement tyres werent like-for-like. It offered to have them 
replaced at Mr Rs convenience and also provide a courtesy vehicle for that day.
Mr R didnt accept Avivas offer to replace the tyres and sought a cash settlement instead. 
He said he would need to travel 62 miles each way  adding it was a three-hour round trip  
to have the tyres refitted. He considered cash settlement as sensible given hed been 
informed the wrongly fitted tyres would be treated as scrap anyway. Mr R said he was 
agreeable to Aviva making a deduction for the wrong tyres from this amount.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair of Aviva to ask Mr R to make a three-hour round trip, 
considering it wasnt his fault wrong tyres were fitted in the first place. She thought Mr R 
should be given the option of either accepting a cash settlement for the correctly rated tyres 
(and letting Aviva pick up the incorrect ones) or being offered an additional £100 
compensation if he was willing to make the three-hour round trip to have the tyres replaced.
In response, Mr R said hed sold his van. But he didnt think this made a difference. He said 
he wanted to be indemnified under the policy and should be put back in the position he 
would have been in if Aviva hadnt fitted the wrong tyres. 
Our investigator reconsidered Mr Rs complaint and concluded her original recommendation 
no longer felt fair in light of this development. She explained Aviva no longer needed to 
replace the tyres or offer a cash settlement as Mr R had sold his van. But she recommended 
£75 compensation as Mr R had still spent a lot of time dealing with the issue prior to the 
sale.
Aviva accepted the investigators findings. But Mr R didnt, and he asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. In summary, he disagrees the sale of his van implies Aviva is no 
longer responsible to indemnify him under the policy. Mr R adds his claim for a cash 
settlement for the correct replacement tyres (less scrap value) remains as it relates to the 
time period from the accident to the completion of repairs when he still had the van. 
I asked our investigator to find out from Mr R if hed replaced the tyres before selling his van. 
Mr R confirmed he didnt do this as the money wasnt made available by Aviva or its 
approved repairer.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I know Mr R feels strongly about his complaint and so this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to him. But I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Its not in dispute Aviva fitted two incorrectly rated tyres on Mr Rs van. I acknowledge Mr R 
feels hes entitled to a cash settlement instead of having the tyres replaced. I can see hes 
provided an extract from his policy which he says shows the option is available to him. 
But its common in motor insurance policies that insurers retain the right to settle the claim 
as they see fit. The extract hes provided supports this  it sets out we (Aviva) will offer one 
of the listed options. So, the choice to settle Mr Rs claim by offering a repair, replacement or 
cash settlement is ultimately Avivas. Here, it chose to replace the original tyres. But in doing 
so, unfortunately it made a mistake. 
Given the circumstances, our investigator considered it was fair for Aviva to give Mr R the 
option of accepting a cash settlement for the tyres. And in return he would need to allow it 
pick up the incorrectly rated tyres.       
But things have moved on since Mr R first made his complaint  the van is no longer in his 
possession as he sold it. Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs reasons for why he believes this 
makes no difference to his claim. While it is the case that an insurance policy indemnifies the 
policyholder against an insured peril, its also a general principle of insurance that it isnt 
intended to put the policyholder in a better position than they were in prior to the loss or 
damage. This is sometimes referred to as betterment.
To suggest Aviva should still pay a cash settlement for tyres which Mr R no longer needs to 
purchase doesnt feel fair or reasonable. I say this because it would put him in a better 
financial position. Mr Rs confirmed he didnt replace the incorrectly rated tyres before selling 
his van. He hasnt demonstrated, and I havent seen anything in the available information to 
suggest, he suffered a financial loss as a result of Aviva not giving him the option of a cash 
settlement after it fitted the wrong tyres. So, Im not persuaded Aviva needs to pay him a 
cash settlement for the tyres he no longer needs to purchase.
That said, like our investigator, I do consider Mr R was put through unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in trying to resolve this matter when he first raised it with Aviva. Fitting 
incorrectly rated tyres meant Mr R had to spend additional time contacting Aviva, the repairing garage as well as his local garage. 
I acknowledge Aviva accepted there were failings in this regard when it considered Mr Rs 
complaint about the overall quality of repairs. But I dont think the compensation offered at 
the time goes far enough, especially since the issue with the tyres went on for a while. Its 
only fair Aviva recognises this. I consider the investigators recommendation of £75 is fair in 
the circumstances.   
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Rs complaint, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay him £75 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced in trying to resolve the issue with the 
incorrectly fitted tyres.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited and require it to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman