DRN-4107464
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him a fixed rate mortgage product for a 
term longer than the year he wanted it fixed for.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with Barclays and in 2021 contacted the bank to renew his mortgage 
product.  He applied on-line for a one-year mortgage product starting 1 November 2021. In 
October 2022 Mr B spoke to Barclays about a further fixed rate product as he understood 
the product would be up for renewal in November. Mr S was told that his product was fixed 
until 28 February 2023, a longer term than one year, by which stage Mr B believed that 
interest rates would increase.
Barclays says that the rate end date on the mortgage product was 28 February 2023 and not 
October/November 2022. It says that Mr B was informed about this on the mortgage offer  
although this was sent to the wrong address, but also on a Revised Payment Notice (RPN) 
and also on the Mortgage Year End statement. Barclays said that sometimes as here the 
rate end date surpasses the term. But for sending the mortgage offer to the wrong address it 
offered compensation of £100. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld as he felt that Mr B should have been aware of the length of the fixed term. Mr B 
disagreed saying in summary that Barclays lied about their one-year fixed mortgage, and he 
was never told about the correct end date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is that he had asked for and understood he had got a one-year fixed rate 
product which would have a term of one year. As it began in November 2001, he understood 
it would end in October 2022. Barclays says that its one-year products arent always for a 
precise term of one year. It says the rate may be available over a period of months but will 
have the same end date so that may be a year or as in this case longer.
The question really is one of whether Mr B was informed of the end date when he took the 
product out. Mr B assumed it would be one year as its a one-year product but refers to no 
written document to support this assumption. Nationwide says that the end date was 
contained in documents that Mr B should have read before he committed himself to the 
product.
The application was made online, and the question is whether Mr B was alerted to the end 
date in that process. Nationwide has provided screenshots of a typical customers journey 
through the application process. As part of this journey, Mr B is asked to read a mortgage 
Information sheet which tells him what the end date is and confirms that he has read it 
before the process allows him to commit to a mortgage product. The journey ends with a 
page saying that the mortgage offer, and other documents are in statements and documents 
in his app and online banking.
It seems to me that Mr B couldnt have made his application without the system generating a 
mortgage information sheet which tells Mr B the end date of his mortgage product. The 
document Ive seen gives an end date of 28 February 2023. I dont see Mr B to say that this 
document had a different end date. So, If Mr B had read the document as he confirms he did 
as part of the app journey, he would have known that the end date was February 2023 not 
October/November 2022. Mr B says Im being shown a different customer journey than the 
one he experienced in 2021. But I would have thought that it is in Barclays interests to show 
the mortgage information sheet to Mr B before he agreed the product and that it would be 
available to him in 2021. There is no advantage in not showing it and the end date on the 
sheet is consistent with the mortgage offer so I consider its likely that the mortgage 
information sheet that Ive seen which contains the end date of February 2023 is the one that 
Barclays made available for Mr B to view during the application process.  
My view is that whatever Mr Bs initial assumptions were about the term of the mortgage 
product, that this documentation would have told him the length of the term and he then 
proceeded to take out the mortgage product with that knowledge. As Mr B then took out the 
mortgage product with the term ending on 28 February 2023 which Barclays had told him 
about, I dont consider it fair to require Barclays to alter the term.
I appreciate that the mortgage offer was sent to an incorrect address although it seems that 
it was also held on the app.  But Barclays then says that the payment notice or RPN which 
says what the new payments are to be with the new rate was sent to the correct address on 
the same date as the mortgage offer and the RPN that Ive seen says that the rate end date 
is 28 February 2023. The RPN Ive seen is dated 1 November 2021 and sent to the same 
address as on the complaint form.  I know Mr B didnt get the mortgage offer - which has a 
different address to the address on the complaint form, but the RPN is sent to him. This is a 
significant document telling Mr B about the change in interest rate and also that this interest 
rate will last until February 2023. So, I consider that at the time that Mr B agreed the new 
mortgage product Barclays had provided sufficient information that should have alerted Mr B 
as to the length of term of the mortgage product. 
Mr B can show me no alternative documentation to support what he believes that the term 
was to end in October or November 2022. We would expect Mr B to acquaint himself with 
the relevant information provided by Barclays to ascertain what the actual term was. Im 
satisfied that Barclays provided sufficient information to alert Mr B as to the date that the rate 
ended. As Mr B agreed the mortgage product on that basis I cant fairly ask Barclays to 
amend the mortgage term or uphold that part of the complaint. But I do accept that the 
mortgage offer was sent to an incorrect address and that Mr B should be paid compensation 
of £100 for Barclayss failure to amend its records and send the offer to the correct address.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer of £100 to settle this complaint and I think 
that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that the bank should pay Mr 
B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman