DRN-3821198
The complaint
Miss S complained that Nationwide Vehicle Contracts Limited (NVC) gave her incorrect 
information about the leasing costs on a car.
What happened
Miss S took out a hire agreement for a Volkswagen on 4 July 2022. This was a three-year 
agreement, and there was an initial rental of £2,793.46 followed by 35 monthly payments of 
£232.79 (which were made up of £220.26 for the rental and £12.53 for maintenance).
Miss S complained that the requirement for the initial rental wasnt explained to her by NVC, 
and that by the time the car was delivered  at which point the initial rental was due for 
payment - the 14-day cooling off period had expired. This meant that she couldnt cancel the 
contract without making a large payment, so, because she wasnt expecting to have to find 
the initial rental, she had to borrow the money. Miss S would like NVC to refund the initial 
rental payment. 
Miss S complained to NVC, but it didnt uphold her complaint, saying that the initial rental 
was made clear. So Miss S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss S remained unhappy so asked 
that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
NVC sent in copies of the quote it provided online to Miss S, along with other documents 
given to her and a recording of the call with her about the hire agreement. It didnt have a 
copy of the agreement, as this was held by the finance company, but Miss S obtained this 
and sent it in. 
NVC also told us that Miss S had chosen a 12-month initial rental payment when requesting 
a quote for the car online, and that she couldve chosen a lower initial payment (which 
wouldve meant a higher monthly rental for the rest of the hire period).
Ive looked carefully at all of the evidence and information, and listened to the call between 
the NVC representative and Miss S.
I can see from NVCs website that when obtaining a quote online the consumer is required to 
enter various details  whether the vehicle is for business or personal use, the lease term, 
the initial rental (1, 3, 6, 9 or 12 months) and the intended annual mileage. This is as 
described by NVC, although of course it is as at todays date, so I dont know whether there 
have been any changes since Miss S obtained her quote.  
NVC also sent in a copy of the quote accepted by Miss S on 28 June 2022, which shows the 
initial rental amount, a processing fee, and then states followed by 35 rentals of £232.79. 
The quote includes details of the 14-day cooling off period, and explanatory notes covering 
the terms used in the quote  including initial rental.
Miss S said she signed the lease agreement on 4 July  I can see from the agreement that 
this is an electronic signature, which is consistent with what Miss S said about dealing with it 
by e-mail. The agreement also sets out the initial rental and subsequent monthly rental 
payments.
Miss S said that the NVC representative didnt explain the lease agreement properly in the 
phone call. Its not clear whether the call took place before or after Miss S signed the 
agreement, although Miss S said it was the same day  4 July. 
Ive listened to the call, which lasted about six minutes. Having done so, Ive confirmed that 
the details of Miss Ss agreement were mentioned very briefly  the 12-month initial rental 
was stated (albeit not the amount) along with the subsequent monthly payment amount. 
However, it seems to me the main purpose of the call was to confirm the delivery timescale 
(agreed at four weeks) for Miss Ss chosen car, and to play a recorded message setting out 
general information about hire agreements. Miss S had already accepted the quote, which 
set out the key elements of the agreement, and either had, or was about to, sign the e-
mailed copy of the hire agreement, which also set out all of the figures. 
Overall, Im satisfied from the evidence before me that the information provided by NVC 
about the amounts payable under the hire agreement was clear enough for Miss S to make 
an informed choice about proceeding. 
I accept that the cooling off period expired before delivery of the car, but I think Miss S had 
sufficient information from the quote that she accepted (and the full hire agreement) for her 
to decide whether she wanted to go ahead within the 14-day period. So this doesnt affect 
my decision.
I understand that Miss S will be disappointed, but I dont have evidence to say that NVC 
acted unfairly in relation to the information provided about her hire agreement. So Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman