DRN-2424769
The complaint
 Ms H complains that RCI Financial Services Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The key facts have been set out by our investigator in his view letter and are not in 
dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Ms H acquired a new car and one would expect it to function without fault. However, within 
less than two months she discovered that on occasions the car would brake on its own so 
she took it back to the dealer in October 2017. It confirmed the fault and spoke to the 
manufacturer and was told there was no fix for this known problem. 
Ms H could have rejected the car at this point since there was a significant fault and the 
dealer had been given its one opportunity to effect a repair and hadnt done so. I am not 
aware that the dealer made her aware of her right to reject the car at that point? I have also 
noted that the manufacturer issued a recall for cars with this fault in January 2020. 
I note Ms H continued to use the car and I appreciate the point made by the dealer that she 
didnt pursue the matter more determinedly. However, she did ask for it to be repaired again 
in December 2018 and was told that she needed to clean the sensors. That strikes me as 
surprising given it had already been established there was a fundamental problem with the 
car. It seems that the dealer missed a second opportunity to repair it properly.
The car was back with the dealer in August 2019 and remained with it until November 2019 
when Ms H lost patience and asked for it back so she could put it into storage while her 
dispute was resolved. She didnt consider the car to be safe and so she stopped using it.  
The dealer has said that her actions stopped it completing the repairs and even though 
these were incomplete the car was safe to drive. It also argues that if she believed the car 
was unsafe to use she would have stopped driving it sooner. This seems to take two 
contradictory positions. The car was faulty - it would unexpectedly automatically apply the 
brakes which strikes me as concerning to say the least. As Ms H has explained, once she 
realised the risk, having done her own research she chose not to take the risk of driving the 
car further. That seems perfectly reasonable.
I accept she has had use of the car and I agree that she should pay for that use, but I 
consider it reasonable to let her reject it given it was faulty from the point of sale and the 
dealer failed to make a repair in October 2017 when given the chance.
Putting things right
Ms H should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
Collect the car at no cost to Ms H.
Reverse the voluntary termination and unwind the agreement.
Return monthly repayments since November 2019 until payments stopped being 
taken. The refund for the month of November should be pro-rated to account for the 
days Ms H had access to a courtesy car.
Refund Ms Hs deposit with 8% annual simple interest from the date it was paid until 
it is settled.
Pay Ms H £300 compensation to recognise the length of time she had the car without 
a suitable repair, several trips to the retailer and the inconvenience of having a car 
that doesnt conform to the contract.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman