DRN-1968647
The complaint
Mrs M complains Ageas Insurance Limited wrongly declined her claim for a damaged sofa.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 
Mrs M's policy provides cover for stains, accidental damage and structural defects. 
However, an exclusion under the policy says claims won't be covered if the damage 
was caused gradually over time.
 
Ageas appointed an independent technician to inspect Mrs M's sofa. The 
technician's report explained the damage to the sofa was caused by the build-up of 
oil  and grease over time. And in turn the damage was "wear and tear build over a 
period time". Based on this report, carried out by independent experts, I don't 
consider Ageas treated Mrs M unfairly when they relied on this information before 
declining her claim.
 
Mrs M was given the opportunity to provide another inspection report for Ageas to 
consider, but she chose not to. As I've not seen any other reports on what caused 
the damage to Mrs M's sofa, I can't fairly say the damage wasn't caused gradually 
over time. So, I don't consider Ageas needs to reconsider Mrs M's claim.
 
Mrs M says she's had a similar claim paid in the past, and for that reason believes 
this claim should be treated in the same way. Our service can only consider this 
particular claim complained of. But in any event, I don't consider the outcome of a 
previous claim necessarily means all future claims must be treated the same way. I 
would expect an insurer to base their decisions on the information applicable to the 
relevant claim - and I've not seen any evidence to suggest Ageas has done 
otherwise. 
 
I appreciate Mrs M's strength of feeling in this matter. However, I don't consider Ageas has 
treated her unfairly. So, I won't be asking Ageas to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mrs M's complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman