DRN-3624119
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed him for funds he lost to a scam 
investment opportunity.
What happened
Mr R found an investment opportunity on social media. He understood that a friend had 
invested and made profits, so he also invested off the back of this recommendation. 
Unfortunately Mr Rs friends social media had been hacked. Mr R invested just over £800 in 
one debit card transaction before he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr R contacted Santander and asked it to refund the money he lost. It didnt agree it was 
responsible and didnt uphold his subsequent complaint. Mr R brought his complaint to our 
service as he wanted his money back.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He set out that the amount transferred 
wasnt high, or unusual enough for us to have expected the bank to carry out a full 
investigation into the payment. Mr R paid a legitimate cryptocurrency firm and then moved 
the money from that account into the scammers account. So our investigator didnt think 
there were any recovery options for Mr R, as he had received the bitcoin hed paid for and 
the loss didnt occur from his Santander account.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He quoted legislation that applied 
to transfers, not card payments and said that this amount was very high and unusual for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander did initially block the payment Mr R tried to send to the cryptocurrency 
merchant. But its confirmed this was because it wanted to check it was genuinely Mr R 
making the payment and he confirmed it was by completing authentication. I think this is 
a proportionate check for this particular situation.
Considering the amount of the payment, I dont think its unreasonable that Santander 
didnt block the transaction due to the value. Mr R regularly sent payments of several 
hundred pounds from this account and sent both a £500 and £4,999 payment in the 
months before this scam.
The fact that someone is paying a cryptocurrency merchant for the first time also isnt a 
reason to stop a payment. As Santander did block the payment, I have considered 
whether Santander ought to have done more in this case to question Mr R, but I dont 
think the amount being sent in this case, considering his other account usage, did 
warrant a greater intervention.
I accept that this was a large amount of money to Mr R, but he did authenticate and 
authorise this payment. So I cant say Santander did anything wrong in then processing it 
for him, considering the other factors Ive already explained.
Mr R was paying a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant and did receive the bitcoin he 
paid for. So theres no recovery options available to him here, as he paid for a service 
and then received it.
As our investigator explained to Mr R, the legislation hes quoted is for bank transfers, so 
where someone sends money on to a merchant from their bank account, for example by 
a faster payment. In this case Mr R paid using his debit card, so the merchant pulled the 
money from his account. This means the codes hes quoted dont apply to his case or 
this transaction. 
Ive also reviewed Mr Rs chat conversations with the scammer. Several times during this 
interaction Mr R clearly has some doubts about the legitimacy of the investment and how 
good the opportunity presented to him seems to be  such as 100% profit within three 
hours. But he goes ahead with it. Santander didnt have access to any of this 
information, it only knew Mr R was paying a legitimate cryptocurrency account  which 
we know was in his own name and control. So I cant say Santander ought to have 
known Mr R was about to be the victim of a scam and prevented this.
I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Mr R and hes lost out to the actions of 
scammers. But I cant see Santander made any errors in processing this payment. And 
theres no recovery options available to Mr R due to him buying bitcoin and then sending this 
onto the scammer. So there arent any grounds to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman