DRN-1652033
 
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt inform them 
of stocks they held in their late fathers name, so they didnt receive the funds until around 
five years after his death.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms M as executor of the estate, received a notification from Barclays to 
transfer funds they held for her late father. She says Barclays was notified when her father 
passed away in April 2015. She says that as executors of the estate, both her and her sister 
should have been notified of the stocks their father held when the bank received notification 
of his death. She says they were going through a difficult time and the funds would have 
made a difference if they had been received in 2015. She feels they have both suffered 
distress as a result and should be compensated for Barclays failure to notify them.
Barclays say they received notification of death and wrote to Ms M in July 2015. They say 
they requested Ms M to provide proof of address as she had a different address to the 
deceased. They say they didnt receive a response from her and its not their policy to 
continue to chase a response. They say they acted in accordance with their standard 
practice and reinvested the money. They wrote to them again in May 2019 to arrange the 
transfer of funds.
Ms M says she didnt receive the letter Barclays sent in 2015 and didnt think its enough for 
Barclays to send one letter and not attempt any other communication. So, she brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said it wasnt enough for Barclays to send one letter in four years. Despite 
this she said she couldnt compensate Ms M as she is complaining on behalf of the estate 
not in her personal capacity. She could only be considered for any financial loss to the estate 
not any personal distress or inconvenience that may have been suffered. As the estate didnt 
make a loss, there was no compensation due.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator, so this has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think it should be 
upheld. I will explain why. 
Barclays accept that only one letter was sent to Ms M in 2015 and then again in 2019. They 
say for them to complete the transfer of funds process they needed to have proof of address 
from Ms M. She says she didnt receive the letter Barclays sent in 2015 and I cant really say 
why but I also cant see any reason why Barclays didnt write to Ms M again until 2019. I 
dont accept that sending one letter in four years is enough. They had received notification of death and so should have made more attempts to communicate with the executors of the 
estate. 
In terms of any loss to the estate, if Barclays had paid Ms M the funds due in April 2015 the 
value would have been £44,654.20. This wasnt actually paid until May 2019 when the value 
of the stocks had increased to £50,177.34. So, the estate didnt suffer a loss as a result of 
the payment not being made in 2015 and theres no financial loss to consider here.
I appreciate this must be upsetting for Ms M and her sister and understand that theyve been 
through a difficult time and they feel Barclays should have done more to communicate with 
them. The money had it been received in 2015 would also have made a significant 
difference. But I also must consider the rules within which we operate and whether I am able 
to offer any compensation. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute resolution rules specify the rules within which we 
operate. DISP Rule 2.7 details who we consider an eligible complainant. The rules state that 
a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant  or a deceased person 
who would have been an eligible complainant. An executor is the representative of the 
deceased estate  in other words they dont act in any personal capacity but in a 
representative capacity. So, they have the right to bring this complaint on behalf of the estate 
but in this situation, it is the estate of their late father that is the eligible complainant, not Ms 
M or her sister.
The representative capacity is the basis on which the executors have brought this complaint. 
They are not eligible complainants in their own right and the estate cannot suffer distress 
and inconvenience, this can only be considered for a complainant in person. I know Ms M 
will be disappointed with my decision, but I am unable to award any compensation to her 
and her sister and wont be asking Barclays to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman