DRN-4288236
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Tide Platform Ltd (Tide) wont refund a number of 
payments lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ss Director, Mr J, made some payments from Ss business banking account to what he 
believed to be a legitimate investment company. Unbeknown to Mr J at the time, he was 
actually dealing with fraudsters.
Between 20 July 2020 and 28 October 2020, Mr J sent a number of payments to the 
fraudsters from Ss business account. However, the returns Mr J was promised did not 
materialise and Mr J was unable to get any of his money back. Mr J also came across a 
number of other people who had invested but not seen any of the promised returns. At this 
point, Mr J realised hed been scammed, and he contacted Tide.
Tide declined to offer Mr J a refund of the payments that left Ss business account. Mr J 
complained and the matter was referred to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but they didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. They said they werent persuaded that S had suffered a loss in the 
circumstances set out by Mr J. 
Mr J, on behalf of S, disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is solely in relation to the payments that left Ss business account. In these 
circumstances, S is the eligible complainant. As the Director of S, Mr J can represent S, but 
personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from S.
It isnt in dispute that Mr J authorised the payments from Ss business account that went to 
the fraudsters. So, the starting position here is that Tide ought to have followed the 
instructions it was provided with and processed the payments.
When asked whether the payments that left Ss business account were in relation to a 
personal investment or an investment on behalf of S, Mr J confirmed that the payments had 
been made in relation to a business investment being made on behalf of S in order to raise 
capital that the business could later reinvest. However, the contracts drawn up in relation to 
the investment were in Mr Js personal name.
In light of the conflicting information, our Investigator asked Mr J if he could provide any 
evidence that could show that the investments were being made on behalf of S  such as 
evidence of conversations with his company accountant showing the funds were being used 
to raise capital for business purposes. Mr J was able to provide evidence of a discussion 
about the payments that left Ss account with his accountant  but these took place over a 
year after the payments had been made and appeared to show that the accountant had not 
known about the payments at the time. 
Mr J also provided information to show that the majority of the payments that left Ss account 
were in relation to investment properties using the same business model as S. He said this 
showed that the investments were directly related to his business.   
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr J has told us and based on everything Ive seen; 
Im persuaded that its more likely than not that the money being paid from Ss account was 
for a personal investment being made by Mr J in a personal capacity. I say this because Mr J 
hasnt provided me with any persuasive evidence to demonstrate or suggest that the 
investment was being made by S in its own capacity  despite it being of a similar nature. I 
say this because:
The contractual agreements drawn up at the time the payments were made show the 
named parties entering into the agreements are Mr J and the fraudster  there is no 
mention of S. As I mentioned above, Mr J and S are two separate legal entities and 
only Mr J is named on the contracts drawn up at the time. This suggests to me that it 
was Mr J who was entering into a contractual agreement with the fraudsters, not S. 
In messages shared between Mr J and the fraudster that have been provided to me, 
Mr J mentions that he is looking for some passive income which suggests to me 
that Mr J is seeking additional earnings. There is no mention of this income being 
related to his business.
The final payment that left Ss account doesnt appear to be in relation to a property 
investment at all. 
Having been satisfied of the above, broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in 
relation to the debt created by the spending on Ss account. Firstly, that this was, in effect, S 
lending money to Mr J personally. If Mr J had borrowed money in this way from S for 
personal gain, then he would be liable to repay that debt to the company. And in this 
situation S cant fairly be considered to have suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by 
Mr J as the debtor in these circumstances.
The second potential scenario is that by spending on Ss account in this way, S was 
discharging some debt owed to Mr J, be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in 
this situation, again, S hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr J was 
provided with what he was owed and he paid this to the fraudsters.
Tide do have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But setting all those obligations 
aside, I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to tell Tide it needs to do more. 
Whichever approach I take to the spending on Ss account, Im not persuaded that S itself 
has suffered a loss. So even if I were to conclude that there had been a clear and obvious 
failing by Tide in its handling of matters, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask it to 
do more. This is because any failures that might have occurred didnt cause a loss to S. As 
such, Im not intending to direct Tide to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman