DRN-2453370
The complaint
Mr O complains about the settlement of a claim by Assurant General Insurance Limited 
under his tech pack insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os laptop was insured under a policy with Assurant. He made a claim on 4 March 2020 
and was told to send the laptop in to Assurants repair agent. The battery was replaced, and 
the device was sent back to Mr O. On 11 March 2020, Mr O contacted Assurant to tell it the 
laptop had been returned with less storage, and other functions were missing.
Assurant accepted there was an issue and, because it was unable to provide a replacement 
laptop, it offered a cash settlement based on the amount Mr O had paid for the laptop 
(£1149.99). But Mr O wasnt happy with that because the particular make and model was no 
longer available, and there was no like-for-like replacement or similar alternative available 
that he could buy with the cash settlement amount. 
Assurant offered Mr O £75 compensation for the inconvenience hed suffered, but he 
remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service, explaining that he cant buy a 
replacement laptop of the same or similar specification with the money Assurant has offered.
My provisional findings
Mr Os laptop was a 2 in 1 model that had a 1TB hard drive capacity and a graphics card. I 
noted hed shown that, when the laptop was returned to him from the repair centre, the 
storage had changed to 128GB. The operating system and camera had also been 
downgraded, and the graphics card removed. Assurant accepted these downgrades and, in 
addition to the cash settlement, it offered £75 compensation.
I considered Assurants offer of compensation and I was satisfied £75 addressed the impact 
its failings had on Mr O in terms of the inconvenience he experienced as a result of the 
errors that took place at the repair centre. But I still needed to consider whether the cash 
settlement was fair.
Mr O had said the amount Assurant offered in settlement of the claim wouldnt allow him to 
buy a similar replacement to the one he bought for the same amount in 2017. Assurant had 
argued it wouldnt be fair to make it pay up to the policy limit to replace an item that cost 
much less than that. But our investigator had explained her recommendation wasnt in 
settlement of the claim, rather, it was to put right the fact Mr O was unable to buy a similar 
replacement owing to an error that occurred while the laptop was in Assurants control.
Had it opted to replace the laptop, the policy would have allowed Assurant to replace the 
laptop up to a maximum value of £1,500 per claim. But I couldnt see this was an option that 
was considered or discussed with Mr O. 
Assurant had offered a cash settlement based on what Mr O had paid for the original device 
and I accepted that might have been fair if Mr O had asked for a cash settlement instead of a 
repair or a replacement. But I said as he didnt ask for a cash settlement and was only in this 
position because of errors for which Assurant has accepted responsibility, I didnt think it was 
fair if it left him in the position of not being able to buy a reasonable like-for-like or similar 
replacement. 
I didnt think the laptop Assurant has suggested was similar to the original, nor was it 
available. Mr O had provided information concerning the specification of the original laptop 
and our investigator had undertaken some research showing there was a similar laptop 
currently available for £1449.97. Even though this laptop had less storage than the original, 
Mr O had previously indicated hed be satisfied with that. So, I thought £1449.97 was a fair 
basis upon which to calculate a reasonable cash settlement.
I concluded therefore that Assurant should pay Mr O a further £299.98, plus interest, in order 
to resolve this complaint.  
Developments
Mr Os accepted my provisional findings, but Assurant has responded to say it doesnt 
agree. Its asked me to take into account the following points:
 even though Mr O didnt ask for a cash settlement, and was only offered one due to its 
error, the policy terms and conditions state it will repair, replace or cash settle the claim, 
so it was always a possible outcome that it would have offered cash in fulfilment of the 
claim if the device was irreparable.
 it maintains its offer of £75.00 suitably addresses the point that an error was made 
regarding the repair of the laptop and that Mr O is not due a higher cash settlement 
amount than the laptop was worth. Its argued it would only offer what the device was 
worth at the point of the claim, not what the market is selling at. Its argued that if this 
was a motor insurance claim and the consumer had made a claim relating to a particular 
car, it wouldnt offer the value of the most recent model.
 the laptop it suggested was available when it sent this offer in May 2020, so it doesnt 
accept it fair to increase the offer just because the device is no longer available when the 
Ombudsman has had the chance to review this case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right that the policy allowed Assurant to choose whether to repair, replace or cash settle 
the claim. But the relevance of Mr O not having asked for a cash settlement is that if he had 
asked for cash, it might be fair for Assurant to pay what it would have paid its own suppliers 
for a replacement laptop. But as Assurant chose to cash settle, the amount of cash paid 
would need to be enough to put Mr P back in the position he was in before Assurants error 
occurred. 
The redress in this complaint is intended to produce a fair outcome in circumstances where 
an error occurred in Assurants handling of the claim, rather than a fair settlement of the 
claim. I accept the policy didnt require Assurant to settle the claim by paying Mr O more 
than the laptop was worth and that it would normally only be required to pay what the laptop 
was worth at the point of the claim. But, as Ive previously stated, Mr O only needed to replace his laptop because of Assurants error, and I dont think its fair that left him in the 
position of not being able to buy a reasonable like-for-like or similar replacement.
Ive previously accepted the cash settlement wasnt enough for Mr O to buy a reasonable 
like-for-like or similar replacement and, based on the evidence Ive seen, I maintain that 
position. I accept the laptop Assurant has previously suggested was available when it first 
suggested it. But this complaint has been upheld and its not Mr Os fault that laptop is no 
longer available. Further, Im not satisfied it ever constituted a reasonable replacement as it 
doesnt have a graphics card. 
Consequently, and having taken into account the additional points raised by Assurant, I 
maintain £1449.97 is a fair basis upon which to calculate a reasonable cash settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Assurant General Insurance Services to pay Mr O a 
further £299.98. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest* from the date it paid the 
first part of the cash settlement.
* If Assurant General Insurance Services considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr O tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman