DRN-3856931
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) declined her claim for theft because 
she didnt have a house alarm.
Miss N had contents insurance underwritten by AXA, which provided cover for Miss N, Mr N 
and Miss N(2). Mr N brought the complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill simply refer to Miss N 
(the policyholder) throughout my decision.
What happened
Miss N bought contents insurance with AXA through an administrator. She claimed under 
the policy after jewellery and other items were stolen from her home. AXA declined the claim 
because Miss N didnt have a house alarm. The policy included an endorsement which 
excluded cover for theft if a house alarm was not in place within 30 days of the policy 
starting. 
Miss N complained because she thought the policy wording wasn't clear and she didnt know 
whether the alarm needed to be installed before or after a claim, and she said her home was 
never left unoccupied.
AXA sent a final response letter to Miss N explaining that the schedule it provided when she 
bought the policy confirmed that she would need to have an alarm fitted within 30 days. As 
an alarm wasn't in place when the burglary happened, which was more than 30 days after 
the policy start date, AXA declined the claim. 
Miss N brought her complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
She said AXA made it clear in the policy documents that Miss N needed to have an alarm 
fitted, so she didnt think AXA had treated her unfairly by declining the claim for the reason it 
gave.
Miss N didnt agree. She said AXA didn't say when the alarm should be set, that the wording 
meant it should be installed 30 days after an incident happened, or that an alarm should only 
be active when the property was left unattended. Miss N asked for another opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue is that Miss N thinks AXA unfairly declined her claim because she didnt have a 
house alarm fitted. She said the policy didnt make it clear that she needed to.
The policy schedule that AXA sent to Miss N when she first bought her policy states the 
following:
Your endorsements
An endorsement is a separate term, condition, or extension of cover that applies to 
your policy. An endorsement supersedes any of the terms within your policy booklet.
Property Security - Alarm Requirement
You must fit an alarm within 30 days, ensure it is serviced annually and set when the 
property is left unattended otherwise cover for theft or attempted theft will be 
EXCLUDED.
The policy goes on to say:
Fitting security measures, such as alarms, can reduce the risk of theft from the 
property.
Im satisfied that the wording clearly states Miss N must fit an alarm within 30 days, and that 
her attention was drawn to the endorsement in the policy schedule. The implication is that 
the alarm would be in place within 30 days of the policy start date. And as the wording goes 
on to say that an alarm can reduce the risk of theft, I think its fair to say that AXA expected 
the alarm to be fitted before an incident. While Miss N said she was uncertain about when 
she needed to install an alarm, I consider the policy clear in this respect.
Miss N also said she didnt know when the alarm should be set. The policy refers to times 
when the property is unattended, and Miss N said that was never the case. For the purposes 
of reaching this decision, Ive accepted that Miss Ns house was never left unattended. But 
that doesnt make a difference here. Thats because the policy clearly required her to have 
an alarm fitted and, whether or not she left the house unattended, there wasnt an alarm to 
set anyway.
Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA fairly declined the claim because cover was excluded under 
the policy endorsement for Property Security. I wont be asking AXA to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N, Miss N and 
Miss N to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman