DRN-2457688
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way MCE Insurance Company Limited handled a claim from a third 
party representative (TPR) under his motorcycle insurance policy. 
What happened
MCE received a claim from a TPR in December 2018 about an alleged incident involving Mr 
Hs motorbike in November 2018. 
In December 2018 MCE contacted Mr H who provided evidence that he was out of the 
country on holiday at the time of the incident. So he said his motorbike wasnt involved in the 
incident. Mr H was unhappy about the claim and chased MCE for updates. He wanted MCE 
to remove the claim.
MCE told the TPR that liability was denied and asked them for evidence to support their 
claim. As it didnt hear from the TPR, it closed its file, but as MCE had been notified of a 
claim, it said the claim had been correctly recorded in line with industry practice. 
Mr H was very unhappy about MCEs decision not to close the claim against his policy and in 
2020 he complained. He felt MCE hadnt acted in his best interests and hadnt done enough 
as his motorbike wasnt involved in the incident. Mr H was unhappy with MCEs lack of 
updates and failure to respond to his complaint.
In June 2020 MCE replied to Mr Hs complaint and accepted that he had to chase it for 
updates and it had failed to record his complaint. For its poor service it paid Mr H £150 
compensation. 
MCE said it had acted correctly when recording the claim once the TPR had contacted it. 
While it denied the allegations on Mr Hs behalf, as a claim had been made against the 
policy, MCE had a duty to make a record of it. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Meanwhile, in October 2020 the TPR contacted MCE again to continue to dispute liability. 
MCE replied to say it would defend legal proceedings against it. It reiterated that the TPR 
had provided no evidence to support their allegations since December 2018 and that Mr H 
was out of the country at the time of the incident.
The TPR provided a medical report from their customer and continued to dispute liability. 
MCE replied to the TPR in November 2020 and reiterated that theyd failed to provide any 
evidence of Mr Hs involvement in the incident  and they had failed to provide any details of 
the driver involved. MCE invited the TPR to withdraw their claim. 
MCE didnt hear from the TPR and so after six months, closed its file again and marked the 
claim as withdrawn.
Our investigator explained that he thought MCE had dealt with the claim reasonably and he 
thought the compensation it had paid for its poor service was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he feels MCE should have made enquiries to establish if 
there was a case of mistaken identity of possible fraud. He believes MCE failed to comply 
with GDPR legislation and should have contacted the police and has a role to help combat 
insurance fraud. He said MCE failed to respond to his requests for updates or his complaint 
and failed to properly handle the claim.
So as Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where an insurer receives a claim from a TPR and liability  or in this case  identity and 
liability is in dispute, wed expect an insurer to ask for suitable evidence from all parties 
involved as part of its investigation. 
I understand Mr Hs frustration and feeling that MCE didnt do enough to investigate the 
possibility that the TPR had made an error with the number plate - or that his number plate 
might have been cloned. However, its for a TPR to prove their claim. And as MCE invited 
them to do so and they failed to reply, MCE correctly closed the claim. But in line with 
industry practice as a claim was made, MCE correctly made a record of this. 
Although MCE closed the claim, as the TPR continued to dispute liability when it made 
contact again in October 2020, MCE was obliged to respond. I can see that MCE continued 
to defend Mr Hs position. So I think MCE acted reasonably and in line with the policy.
I can only consider the actions of MCE as Mr Hs insurer  and not the actions of the TPR. 
However, its the responsibility of the party making a claim to check the information they hold 
is correct in order to support the allegations they make. 
MCE replied to the TPR in October and November 2020 and reiterated that theyd provided 
no evidence of Mr Hs involvement in the incident  and theyd failed to provide any details of 
the driver involved. MCE invited the TPR to withdraw their claim. MCE didnt hear from the 
TPR and so after six months, closed its file again and marked the claim as withdrawn. 
I havent found anything to suggest MCE is responsible for any breach in data protection 
rules. It asked the TPR to provide further information to support its allegation that Mr Hs 
motorbike was involved  which they failed to do.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling about the way the claim was handled. And I know 
hes made his own enquiries with the TPR which has led to the possibility that they had 
recorded the wrong registration details. But I dont think it was unreasonable for MCE not to 
regularly contact the TPR to chase them for evidence to support their claim. MCE made 
them aware that Mr H was out of the country at the time of the incident. Its in the interests of 
the TPR to prove their allegations, which they failed to do.
I think MCE provided a poor service to Mr H in failing to keep him updated on the claim and 
respond to his queries  and complaint  within a reasonable period of time. I dont think the 
outcome to the claim would have been different, but I think MCE caused Mr H unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience here. And I think this poor service contributed to Mr Hs lack of 
confidence in MCE that it was dealing with the claim in a fair way. So I think MCE should have put things right  and I think the compensation MCE paid Mr H 
of £150 is fair and in line with awards which we give for similar circumstances to reflect the 
inconvenience caused by having to chase MCE.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman