DRN-1382690
The complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Finance Limited repossessed his car and didnt refund 
payments even though he had little use of it.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr B acquired a car costing £57,210 funded by a deposit of £12,000 and 
the balance with hire purchase finance. In early 2018 Mr B went to Africa and suffered a 
major accident. His last monthly payment was made in January 2018. Black Horse 
attempted to contact Mr B by phone and letter, but without success. It discovered a linked 
address for him, but this proved fruitless. On 4 September 2018 Mr Bs landlord contacted 
Black Horse to say he was selling the property Mr B had rented and he wanted the car 
removed.
Two days later Mr B called Black Horse to tell it about his situation. It told him that it was in 
the middle of repossessing the car and in order to halt the process he would need to clear 
his debt. Two days later Mr B let Black Horse know he was still in Africa and agreed to send 
a medical certificate.
The banks says this was received in late November at the time the account was defaulted. In 
July 2019 Mr B made contact again and said he was back in the UK. Black Horse informed 
him the car had been sold and the account defaulted leaving him owing a balance of 
£4,895.45. Mr B complained and Black Horse agreed to write off the balance and remove 
any adverse markers it had placed on his credit file.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Our investigator asked Black Horse 
about the details of the finance. It explained that the deposit had gone to the dealer and it 
had lent Mr B £45,210. After selling the car it had covered its costs and had not made a 
profit after writing off the outstanding balance.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr Bs situation but she didnt think Black Horse had done 
anything wrong and couldnt ask it to refund his deposit. Mr B didnt agree and said it was 
unfair and the business had benefitted from his situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B has had a very traumatic time and I can only sympathise. However, I dont 
consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B paid a deposit to the dealer which sold the car. He paid the balance by means of a 
finance agreement with Black Horse. He agreed to repay this in monthly instalments and as 
a result of his accident he stopped doing so. Black Horse was unaware of his situation and it took all reasonable steps to contact Mr B. It didnt take action to repossess the car for over 
six months after the repayments stopped.
It was at this time it became aware of the Mr Bs situation. He was not in a position to pay his 
debt and delaying action would mean that the car would have reduced in value further and 
have left Mr B with a greater shortfall. It took a reasonable decision to repossess the car and 
sell it. After he complained the bank wrote off the outstanding balance and removed any 
adverse markers on his credit file relating to the finance agreement.
I cannot say that the bank has done anything wrong and I cant ask it to do any more for Mr 
B. It cant repay his deposit as it never received that deposit. That was paid to the dealer in 
exchange for Mr B taking the car. Mr B encountered a very unfortunate set of circumstances, 
but the bank wasnt responsible for those and has not benefited from them. By writing off 
more than £4,000 it too has lost out on a potential profit. Therefore, while I have every 
sympathy with Mr B I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman