DRN-4261466
The complaint
Miss B complains that a loan approved for her by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) was lent irresponsibly. 
What happened
NatWest approved a loan for Miss B in July 2017. It was for £6,000 repayable over 
48 months. With the interest it was just under £8,935 in total to repay. 
Miss B has said that as she was on a zero-hours contract and as NatWest had access to her 
bank account as an existing current account customer then it ought to have known that she 
was not able to afford this loan. 
After Miss B had complained in May 2023, NatWest contacted her by telephone. The 
recording of that call was requested and the recording sent to us cut off before the customer 
verification with Miss B could be done and so I have not been able to hear what was 
discussed. I am disappointed not to have received it. 
Following this telephone call, NatWest issued its final response letter (FRL) and explained 
that it had verified her income at the declared figure Miss B had given to NatWest of £1,200 
each month by cross-referring it with the credits to her bank account. It had carried out a 
credit check and had information about her monthly expenditure. It did not uphold her 
complaint. 
Miss B referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and one of our adjudicators 
looked at it. She carried out a review and did some calculations and considered that after 
repaying all that Miss B had to repay and the new NatWest loan she would have been left 
with very little each month. 
Our adjudicators view was that she would have been left with less than £80 disposable 
income, which I dont believe is enough for any emergency bills or payments. And so, 
Miss B would not have been able to repay this loan sustainably over 48 months.
NatWest objected to this and gave several reasons why all of which I have reviewed and 
I address in the main body of the decision. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
After I had reviewed it I asked NatWest for some further information not all of which was sent 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether NatWest completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that NatWest did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with consumer
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required NatWest to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so NatWest had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss B. In 
practice this meant that NatWest had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for NatWest to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
NatWest has provided evidence to show that before lending it checked Miss Bs credit 
history and current commitments and used her declared income figure of £1,200 which it had 
verified using her bank account. Based on those checks NatWest thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the term of the loan and/or repayment amount, I consider that a full financial 
review was required. It was a large sum - £6,000  over 48 months which is a lengthy loan 
term. Added to which I do not consider that £1,200 a month was a particularly large income  Id 
describe it as relatively modest. And having seen the records from NatWest it seems that in 
November 2016 Miss B had asked for an overdraft or an increase in her overdraft which was 
accepted with warning, which suggests to me that NatWests view of her ability to repay 
that overdraft may not have been the strongest. So that history was on the records NatWest 
has sent us as part of this assessment for the £6,000 loan a few months later. All these 
elements point to it being proportionate for a full financial review to have been done.
I do accept that it was not likely that NatWest would have known Miss B was on a zero-hours 
contract and her bank account transactions do not indicate an erratic series of paycheques 
crediting her account in the months up to 7 July 2017 which may have indicated that. And so 
unless Miss B had told it of that zero-hours element of the contract then I would not have 
expected NatWest to have known of this. Theres no evidence that Miss B told it that. 
 
NatWest said it carried out a credit search. I asked for those details but none were available 
and as the loan was several years ago that seems reasonable. 
It has sent to us details entered onto a spreadsheet and shows what it had checked before 
lending and what Miss B had declared to them for various outgoings. These were:
Mortgage /rent commitments £200 for the month, 
living costs of £389 for a month, 
other bank loan existing repayment of £191 a month, 
and her credit card repayments monthly of £158. 
These all came to £938 each month. This plus the new NatWest loan commitment for 
48 months was due to be just over £186 each month if I divide £8,935 by 48 months and as 
we have no copy loan agreement that is the figure I have used. The figure repayable each 
month may have been more but it was unlikely to have been less and so I consider it 
reasonable to use this figure. 
That figure of £938 plus £186 comes to £1,124 which would have left Miss B with £76 if she 
had earned £1,200 each month which was the figure NatWest used. Whereas Miss Bs bank 
statements showed that she earned £1,138.79 on 22 June 2017. So the amount left over 
would have been around £14 each month. 
In addition, Ive seen from the bank transaction lists NatWest has sent us that Miss Bs 
overdraft interest and charges plus the unarranged overdraft charges were debited each 
month to the account. For April 2017 those combined charges were just under £30, for 
May 2017 £24.18, for June 2017 £54 and on 4 July 2017 the combined charge was £47. 
And I consider that the fact Miss B was regularly exceeding her agreed overdraft limit would 
have been another factor to alert NatWest to her ability to repay this loan. 
So, whether I utilise £1,200 or the actual salary of just under £1,139 I think that on NatWests 
figures then the loan was unaffordable. Alternatively, I think that Miss B was left with so little 
left over that the repayment over the 48 months was likely unsustainable.  
In response to the adjudicators view NatWest wanted to know how the adjudicator had 
come to that view  that Miss B would have not been left with enough disposable income 
when all the affordability assessment it had carried out had come to net free income of 
£262 (£1,200 minus £938). And it also questioned why the £6,000 capital loan money had 
not been factored into the calculations. 
I do not consider that CONC was designed that a creditworthiness assessment on the affordability of a loan would have expected the professional lender to add into the 
assessment the available funds from the not yet approved loan on which it was making a 
decision. That seems illogical and in fact if one were to expand on that then potentially all 
loans would be affordable if the lender were to add in the funds it was about to lend to the 
applicant when carrying out the creditworthiness assessment. 
To assist me in coming to this conclusion I have reviewed CONC. I refer to the CONC rules 
and guidance applicable in July 2017 and CONC 5.2.3G, linked with CONC 5.2.2R is 
duplicated here for completeness: 
CONC 5.2.3G The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent 
upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have 
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity 
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
This makes it clear that NatWest needed to look at Miss Bs existing financial commitments 
and her financial position at the time she was seeking the credit. So, I reject NatWests 
suggestion that the potential loan funds ought to be included in the creditworthiness 
assessment. 
And for Miss B to be left with very little or no funds after paying all her commitments off then 
applying my fair and reasonable remit I do not consider that to have been fair or reasonable 
in July 2017. 
NatWest also questioned as to why it was that we would not have factored into the equation 
what it considered to be the inevitable increase in Miss Bs wages that would have taken 
place over the 48 months of the term of the loan. But in the same way it has said to Miss B in 
the FRL that it cannot take into account future events when carrying out its assessment then 
Id reiterate the same sentiment to NatWest. Referring to CONC 5.2.3G again, then (8) makes it clear that the consideration would be any 
future changes which may likely to have  a significant financial adverse impact on the 
customer;. Theres no mention in this part of factoring in likely promotions and pay rise 
increases as that would not be considered adverse. 
If Miss B had informed NatWest that she was in line for a promotion or due a salary increase 
then my understanding of CONC is that NatWest may have been able to account for that. 
But theres no evidence of Miss B having told NatWest that here. 
CONC 5.3.1G (2017) assists in that it says: 
(3) A firm in making its creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1) may take into account future increases in income or future 
decreases in expenditure, where there is appropriate evidence of the change and the 
repayments are expected to be sustainable in the light of the change.
And CONC 5.3.1G (4) goes on to explain that: 
(a) the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and 
reasonably expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to 
do so) where it is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income 
or expenditure over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer;
(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment.
As theres no evidence that NatWest asked about or knew of her zero-hours contract 
situation then its unlikely that it asked or knew about her future career or employment  
prospects. And Ive seen no evidence it did make such enquiries. And more than a simple 
statement or an assertion by the customer is what CONC expected  CONC 5.3.1G(4) (b). 
So, I am not persuaded that it was proportionate and reasonable of NatWest to have relied 
on that supposition of a salary increase for the four year term. 
Having assimilated all the evidence, I have and considered NatWests submissions I uphold 
the complaint. 
Putting things right  what NatWest needs to do
Miss B has told us in her complaint form that she has been paying this loan off since 2017 
and still has more to repay. So, I have approached the redress as if that was the situation. 
NatWest needs to buy back the loan if it has sold it (to retain it in-house) and then do as 
follows. If the loan has been paid off then no repayment plan would be necessary and the 
refund can be paid directly to Miss B in the usual way. NatWest needs to: 
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount of 
£6,000,
If Miss B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to Miss B with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, NatWest should come to a reasonable repayment plan with her.
remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file which ought 
to include the default Miss B has said was applied to the loan account. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that National Westminster Bank 
Plc does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman