DRN-2858004
The complaint
Mr P complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited, referred to as the business, 
failed to provide him with online access to his investments for over eight weeks.
What happened
The business in short said:
In the circumstances it did everything it (reasonably) could to assist Mr P with his lack 
of access online. But the problem was isolated and limited to his device.
It had various operatives (remotely) guiding Mr P through various steps and trouble-
shooting procedures, until it was able to restore his online access. 
It was suggested that Mr P try another device, or download another browser, had he 
been able to follow the businesses instructions this issue mightve been resolved 
seven weeks ago.   
Whilst its not responsible for Mr P experiencing problems in the first place, it 
acknowledges that he still didnt have online access for nearly eight weeks, so as a 
gesture of goodwill £200 is offered for the trouble and upset caused.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: 
Although the business wasnt responsible for the lack of online access that Mr P 
experienced, it acted reasonably in trying to resolve the difficulties. 
Whilst Mr P has spent time and effort in trying to resolve the issue  and would like 
the business to be punished  its not our role to punish a business for any wrong 
doing, thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
FCA). 
Mr P disagreed with the investigator's view. In summary, he said: 
Hes unhappy that the business wasnt able to get its act together sooner and resolve 
his issue in a timely manner  in the way that it did at the very end  without the need 
for a new browser or any of the other things that it said might be wrong with his 
device.  
The last person to call him from the business was able to walk him through the steps 
and resolve the issues in around 30 minutes. Hed been given the run around for 
weeks during which time he was unable to access his investments online, at a very 
crucial time when the markets were suffering the effects of covid-19. 
Despite what the investigator says, Mr P didnt need to download a new web browser 
to get the matter resolved.
The device has subsequently worked, even without a new browser, which suggests 
that it wasnt his device that was at fault.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Whilst there were two versions of what happened, he still wasnt able to safely 
conclude that the business was at fault.   
Mr P provided the following key submissions in support of his complaint:
He was happy for the business to record the exchange he had with it, as evidence of 
what was said. But the investigator failed to provide evidence of any difference 
between his account and that of the business account.   
Failure to report the business assertion  that it wasnt technically to blame  to a 
third-party independent assessor, demonstrates a lack of fairness on the part of our 
service. 
Frustrated with this case, Mr P contacted the maker of his laptop and was told that it 
wasnt an issue with his device. 
Last week a devastating injustice/unfairness was revealed with the Post office 
following an IT issue. He wonders if the same has happened with him, but he has no 
means of proving it.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, I cant say that the business 
was responsible for Mr P not being able to access his investments online. I also think that 
the £200 compensation offered  as a gesture of goodwill  for the trouble and upset caused 
by the lack of access is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I must acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling 
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr P and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Im aware of some 
information requested by Mr P but I dont need further information in order to reach a 
decision in this case. 
I note Mr P says hes been with the business for 15 years, monitoring 40 stocks, usually on a 
daily basis, but has been unable to access his online account since 17 April 2020. He 
contacted the business customer services team several times until his case was escalated 
to the business IT team, who eventually sorted out his access. On 20 April 2020, Mr P spoke to an operative and was told to download Mozilla Firefox and 
try logging in through this route rather than Google Chrome, which he was having problems 
with. Because Mr P was struggling  and the operative was unfamiliar with his laptop  it 
was suggested that he ask someone for help. Given that the country was in lockdown this 
wasnt an option for Mr P. 
I note the business says that on 19 June 2020, Mr P was helped to upgrade his operating 
systems on his device, as his Google Chrome was out of date, but upgrading didnt seem to 
work. Mr P was then walked through signing up for the Play Store and down loading Mozilla 
Firefox, with the assistance of the person he was with. Once the browser was authorised this 
restored his online access. 
Im aware that the investigator (and the business) are satisfied that the issue was with Mr Ps 
device. But whether (or not) it was  on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think it 
probably was  in this instance Im unable to safely say that it was the business fault he was 
unable to access his account online. In other words, I cant safely say that the business is to 
blame for Mr P not having online access to his investment over eight weeks. 
I appreciate what Mr P says about not having any problems in the past, using his computer 
to access his investments online, but this only suggests that the device was working well 
during that period. It doesnt mean that it couldnt have developed an issue over time.  
I note that Mr P is still using the same device to access the online service, despite being told 
to get a different computer. But despite what Mr P says, this isnt of itself evidence that the 
problem was with the business. I note a number of operatives made suggestions about 
different steps that he could take with his computer. 
I also note that other customers were still able to access their investments online, despite 
the problems experienced by Mr P, which would suggest that his situation was probably 
isolated to him. 
Im aware that issues such as online access can be quite technical and complicated, and a 
series of steps may need to be taken before an issue can identified and rectified. On the 
face of it, thats what appears to have been done here. 
Im aware of Mr Ps comments about the operative who eventually rectified the issue, and his 
upset about it not being done in the first place. But I cant safely say that the previous trouble 
shooting, suggestions made, and steps taken were unreasonable and didnt have any 
bearing at all, on the last operatives ability to resolve the issue efficiently. Im mindful of Mr 
P being upset about being told he might need a new device, but it was only a suggestion.  
At the very least it wouldve meant eliminating processes that had already been tried, rather 
than repeating and re-repeating processes that were unlikely to work. Im mindful of how 
frustrated Mr P was at having to repeat many of the processes, such that he didnt want to 
do them anymore, because he was getting nowhere.     
Im mindful of the point Mr P makes about subsequently being able to access his 
investments online without the Firefox browser and with a different provider. Whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Ps concerns and scepticism neither this or his friend having issues with the 
business, is evidence that the business is at fault. Im mindful that Mr P needed Firefox to 
access his online account, and that previously he couldnt access the account without it, and 
that he was assisted by the business in doing so.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably in the circumstances, or that its responsible for 
his experience. 
In the circumstances the £200 compensation offered  as a gesture of goodwill  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. Im mindful that Mr P feels hes 
entitled to around £20,000 for his losses and more compensation for the hours spent on this 
complaint. But Im mindful that the compensation offered isnt for financial loss or the hours 
he spent pursuing this complaint, and in any event, I am not satisfied the business did 
anything wrong so I am unable to make any award. 
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman