DRN-3673466
The complaint
Mr L complains about the replacement phone that Assurant Direct Limited (Assurant) gave 
him, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L sent his mobile phone to Assurant as there was damage. Unfortunately, the phone was 
lost in the post, but as Mr L had proof of postage, Assurant agreed to replace the lost phone. 
It sent Mr L the replacement phone and Mr L noticed that the 3D touch didnt work, the 
screen was raised from the body of the phone, the brightness and colours were poor, and 
the bezel was too large. 
Mr L complained to Assurant who asked him to return the phone to be inspected. Mr L 
returned the phone and Assurant, following the inspection of the phone, returned it back to 
him, saying that the phone was within the specifications. 
Mr L complained to Assurant again as he was still unhappy with the phone. Assurant told Mr 
L to take the phone to the phone manufacturer for it to be inspected, which he did. The 
phone manufacturer said that the battery life was 90% but also that the screen wasnt 
genuine. 
Mr L believed that because he had been told that the screen wasnt genuine, Assurant 
hadnt met its obligations under the policy. In Assurants final response, in which it confirmed 
that the replacement was within the specifications. It accepted that there had been some 
poor communications with Mr L, and offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. Mr L referred a complaint to our service, as he remained unhappy. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said, the policy terms allowed Assurant to replace the device with either a refurbished or 
remanufactured phone. Mr Ls phone manufacturers report only confirmed that the screen 
was unbranded. She said that the battery was within the phone manufacturers tolerance. 
And, Assurants engineers (who were approved by the phone manufacturer) found no issue 
with the phone. She didnt think that Assurant had been unfair to rely on the engineers 
judgement. She also felt that the £50 awarded for the poor communication was fair. 
Assurant accepted the view, Mr L did not. He said he was very disappointed by the view. He 
couldnt understand how a poorly fitted screen that affected the workings of the phone, could 
be considered to be acceptable. He felt that the replacement phone wasnt in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr L, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have considered what both parties have said and reviewed the policy terms and conditions. 
Within the policy it sets out Assurants obligations when a claim is made. 
Mr Ls original phone became damaged and then was lost in the post. Assurant agreed to 
replace the phone. Having considered the policy terms, it said: Where we replace the mobile 
device, the replacement will be a refurbished or remanufactured (not brand new) device. I 
think this term allows Assurant to replace the phone with a not brand-new/used device. And 
Assurant confirmed that the device sent to Mr L wasnt brand new. It further explained that 
the devices are remanufactured by the phone manufacturer and the policy terms also state 
that unbranded/readily available parts maybe used. It said that remanufactured means that 
at some time the phone had been previously used but has since been 
remanufactured/refurbished. So, I cant agree that it hadnt complied with the terms of the 
policy by providing Mr L with not a band-new device. 
Mr L relied upon the phone manufacturers report. A copy of which I have read. In it, it said 
that the screen wasnt genuine, and the battery life had reduced by 10%. But apart from 
those indications, no other defects were found with the phone, such as an internal fault that 
affected the operation of the phone. And the phone manufacturer has confirmed that a 10% 
reduction in battery life is within the phones acceptable operating range.
In addition, looking at the policy terms, it allows unbranded parts to be used in the repair of 
phones: What you need to know about the claims process Repairs may be made using 
readily available parts, or we will provide refurbished products which may contain parts, 
which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include unbranded parts. 
Consequently, I think Assurant complied with the policy terms, with the replacement phone 
that it sent. 
I also note that Assurant contacted Mr L to discuss the complaint further and offered to 
arrange an exchange to replace the phone. But Mr L had already purchased a replacement 
and was happy to return phone under warranty. So, I do think that Assurant complied with 
the policy terms, given that it offered Mr L the option of returning the phone for an exchange. 
Finally, I have considered whether the £50 compensation for the poor communication was 
fair in the circumstances and I think it was. I say this as it was clear there was a delay of a 
few weeks, in Assurant sending out the replacement phone. For this error, it paid Mr L £50, 
which is in line with what would generally be awarded in similar complaints. 
Overall, I think that Assurant has complied with the policy terms and conditions, It has 
recognised its error in the delay in sending the device to Mr L. And it has offered £50 
compensation, which I think is fair. 
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr L wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
Assurant to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman