DRN-3855914
The complaint
Ms G complained about the poor service she has received from the business administering 
her personal pension. 
Ms G says the information she has been able to access on-line about her pension is very 
poor and there are parts of her pension she is unable to view at all. Also, in trying to correct 
the on-line pension records and access the information she needs Ms G says shes had to 
endure very long wait times over the telephone. And although the provider has told her 
several times over many months that it was going to fix these issues, nothing has been done 
to address the access and accuracy problems shes encountered. 
As Ms G is now almost 67 years old, this means she hasnt been able to make an informed 
decision about retiring. 
ReAssure Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill 
refer mainly to ReAssure.
What happened
Ms Gs stakeholder pension was originally with a large and well-known pension provider. 
However, in 2020, ReAssure took over her pension as part of a large buy-out process.  
Her pension isnt large but it is nevertheless important to her. Having experienced these 
problems initially, she first complained to ReAssure about the matters Ive mentioned above. 
Ms G then referred the complaint to our Service and in November 2022 one of our 
investigators issued a View saying the complaint ought to be upheld. He recommended 
that ReAssure should pay Ms G some money for the distress and inconvenienced caused by 
its failures. He also asked the business to engage with Ms G and to provide her with the 
information she needed to make an informed decision about her pension.
ReAssure didnt respond to the investigators View, although Ive since confirmed some 
money was unilaterally paid to her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the ongoing 
failures.
As she remains unhappy about the on-line access and other issues still not being resolved, 
Ms G has asked for an ombudsmans final decision about her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Ms G has encountered. She didnt ask for  or consent 
to  her pension being transferred to ReAssure and shes said that shes had nothing but 
trouble since the new business took over. Specific issues include:
Her employers pension contributions being held in a separate account which 
ReAssure refers to as a suspense account. So, whilst Ms G can see her employer is 
making contributions from her pay slip, she cant confirm they are arriving safely in 
her pension account because she cant get any on-line access to the suspense 
account. 
Ms G also wanted to change some important information relating to the beneficiaries 
of her pension should anything happened to her, but she hasnt been able to do this 
either. Ms G told us she has told ReAssure who she wants on the pension as 
beneficiaries, but this still hasnt been confirmed.
She also wanted to adjust some of the funds the pension was invested into and 
wasnt able to do this in a reasonable timeframe.
I havent listed all the problems Ms G seems to have encountered with her pension whilst 
with ReAssure, but Ive considered what Ms G has said and I fully understand the frustration 
she would have felt. I can also see shes been told several times, for over a year now, that 
the on-line access issues would be resolved. These are strategic and company-wide issues 
which I understand are being addressed via an ICT Change Programme. However, despite 
being led to believe the improvements would help Ms G, shes still not able to access her 
employers contributions on-line and has had to spend many hours trying to sort these types 
of things out.
However, as our investigator pointed out, the role of this Service is to deal with individual 
complaints between consumers and financial businesses. We do not supervise or monitor 
businesses in this context, thats a matter for the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Nevertheless, it seems to me Ms G has lost confidence in the ability of ReAssure to deliver 
on its many promises to her regarding its on-line pensions portal and so she may wish to 
transfer to a different provider. I can see Ms G has reached an age where she is considering 
retiring and I dont think it is either fair or reasonable that she is having to go to great lengths 
just to find out very basic information about her pension. As it stands, I can agree how shes 
still unable to make an informed decision.
Since or investigator issued his view in November 2022, ReAssure seems no further forward 
with its ICT Programme, or certainly with its ability to deliver what Ms G needs. I also think 
its poor and inconsistent communications with Ms G, and indeed our own Service has 
prolonged this matter. However, having to spoken to the business, I accept Ms G has since 
received the good will payment as promised by ReAssure several months ago. And as these 
access issues still persist, ReAssure has now also agreed to pay Ms G a further £250 for the 
distress and inconvenient caused by its failures.
As Ive said, even though I completely accept that Ms Gs journey with ReAssure has been a 
frustrating one, its not our purpose to oversee issues of customer service. This might 
provoke her into considering whether her ongoing relationship with the business ought to 
continue.
However, in this specific case, I can understand Ms G is considering retirement imminently. 
ReAssures consistent failures are hampering this in my view and so I think it needs to put 
several matters right before Ms G ultimately considers what to do. I set these out below.Putting things right
ReAssure should pay Ms G a further £250 for the distress and inconvenient caused 
by its failures. 
I also direct that it should give her a full breakdown of her current pension account 
balance (employee and employer contributions) together with breakdown of all 
transactions over the last 12 months. This should be done manually and sent to her 
in a format that is understandable and clear.
If Ms G wants to transfer her pension to another provider, ReAssure must promptly 
facilitate this at no charge to Ms G.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint.
I direct that ReAssure Limited carry out the above within 30 days of Ms G accepting my 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman