DRN-4501275
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr N bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2019. The purchase was
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr N
alleges that the supplier misled Mr N into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought the complaint
should be upheld because she didnt think the documents from the time of sale made it clear
what period of time the estimated benefits covered  therefore it wasnt clear that the system
wouldnt be self-funding from the documents. Instead, she felt it was fair for Mr N to rely on
what he was being told verbally. She felt Omni should therefore put things right by
restructuring Mr Ns loan and only charging him the benefits he would likely receive over the
term of the loan.
Omni disagreed for the following reasons:
It said the estimated benefits are clearly set out as annual benefit amounts and would 
have made it clear the system wasnt self-funding
That Mr N appears to accept that he recognised at the time that the documents he 
was left with suggest the system wouldnt be self-funding, but he did nothing with that 
information at the time  instead going ahead with the sale.
Mr N didnt raise any concerns about the benefits he was receiving for many years 
and only did so after his representative raised such concerns.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, I was asked to make a decision
In my provisional decision of 17 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mr N (nor his representative) made any 
additional comments. Omni appeared to agree with my provisional findings and did not add 
any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni. And 
section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr N was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
as well as the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system.
I think its clear that Mr Ns total annual estimated benefit is £673.06  Mr N signed this part 
of the contract on 1 February 2019. 
The second part of the contract set out the cash price of the system, which was £10,097, 
that Mr N would be paying a deposit of £3,097 and that the remaining amount of £7,000 
would be paid by finance. The second part of the contract was also signed by Mr N on 1 
February 2019. The overall contract was not particularly long, and the facts and figures were 
not hidden away in small print. 
Mr N also signed a validation sheet on the same day  1 February 2019.
This shows Mr Ns loan was for 120 months (i.e. 10 years), and his monthly payments were 
£90.65. 
Normally the sales paperwork reflects the discussions consumers had with the sales advisor, 
so it looks like the sales advisor discussed both Mr Ns costs and estimated benefit with him. 
I think its apparent (without doing any calculations) that to repay a loan for £7,000 over 10 
years, Mr N would need at least £700 per year to cover the cost of just the credit element of 
the loan. And his annual benefit of £673 falls short of that without even considering the 
interest on the loan.
As explained above, the validation sheet also showed his monthly payments were around 
£90. I think its apparent 12 payments of £90 is significantly more than the annual benefit of 
approximately £673. So, I think its clear that the system benefits wouldnt be sufficient to 
cover the cost of the loan. 
Mr Ns letter of claim also suggests he was aware the documents didnt indicate the system 
was self-funding, but there were several weeks between the sale and installation. So, if Mr N 
felt the system had been sold on the basis that it would be self-funding, then Im not sure 
why he didnt raise this with the supplier (or Omni) and cancel the sale before installation. It 
also appears he didnt raise this for a number of years after the sale. 
As explained above, none of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view 
clearly visible. And Mr N has signed each one of these documents  so, I think he wouldve, 
at the very least, seen them when he signed the documents. If Mr N had been told 
something different, on being asked to sign these documents, or checking them following the 
sale, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no 
evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that either the documents most likely did not 
contradict Mr Ns understanding at that time, or he wasnt relying on the system being self-
funding when he bought it and went ahead with the purchase in any event. The documents 
show the system isnt self-funding. 
Mr N signed the credit agreement the following day  which showed the total amount 
payable including finance charges was £13,955.96. His credit agreement also shows his 
monthly payment was £90.65 for the first month and £90.49 for the remaining term of the 
loan. Again, I think its clear that to repay £13,955.96 over 10 years, Mr N would need at 
least £1,395 annually to meet the loan repayment  which is over twice the annual benefit. 
And despite there being several weeks between Mr N signing the credit agreement and 
installation, Ive seen no evidence that he tried to cancel or raise any concerns at the time.           
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he says he was told they would be. And I dont think its likely that he was 
led to believe the system would be self-funding, when the documents he signed, clearly 
display such a significant shortfall between the cost and the benefit. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ns testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. I havent seen any evidence that Omni paid any commission to the 
supplier and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Other issues 
Mr Ns representative says that Omni didnt appear to do appropriate credit checks, didnt 
ask for Mr Ns employment status or his financial income and outgoings. But Omni says it 
carried out sufficient checks to assess his creditworthiness and for adverse information  but 
Mr N passed its credit checks. Mr N also declared his annual income and signed a document confirming that the information given was true. It also looks like Mr N maintained the 
payments following the sale. So, I havent seen any evidence that the loan wasnt affordable 
when it was granted to him.  
Mr N also says that the sales advisor pressured him to agree to the sale by telling him the 
government Feed in Tariff scheme was ending. However, it looks like there were several 
weeks between Mr N agreeing to the purchase and the installation of the system. Mr N also 
had a cooling off period. If Mr N didnt want the system, I would have expected him to have 
cancelled within that period  and Ive seen no evidence that he tried to cancel. Pressure 
can also be subjective, and Mr N hasnt provided much detail as to what was said or done to 
pressure him specifically. So, I dont uphold his complaint on this basis. 
So, while Ive thought carefully about these concerns, I dont uphold his complaint for these 
reasons. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr N 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Omni declining this claim was unfair. 
Neither party have provided any additional submissions, so in the absence of any new points 
for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision (and as set out above). With this in mind, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman