DRN-2634890
The complaint
Mr P complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) were wrong to report a late 
payment marker to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed information from PayPals system notes and can see that an email was sent to 
Mr P, at the email address we have for him, on 15 January 2019 advising him that his latest 
PayPal Credit statement was available on line and that he had a minimum payment due of 
5.00. That payment wasnt received, and, on 14 February 2019, the new statement 
showed the past due amount and his new minimum payment of £10.The account wasnt 
brought up to date until 22 March 2019. 
I understand Mr P says he was told not to verify a bank account for direct debits to be taken. 
Ive not seen any corroborating evidence of that but, even if I had, the payment was still due 
and was missed. In those circumstances PayPal have a responsibility to report Mr Ps 
performance on his account accurately to the credit reference agencies and I think theyve 
done that. So, Im not asking them to take any further action.
Mr P also complains that PayPal havent provided a comprehensive response to his Data 
Subject Access Request. Ive seen that PayPal explained they dont supply telephone 
records, but Ive not seen that Mr P raised that issue as a complaint with them. If he remains 
dissatisfied, hell need to allow PayPal to consider the complaint before its referred to us.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ps concern about any reports to his credit file and his desire 
to maintain an excellent record, Im afraid I dont have sufficient information to suggest 
PayPal have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any further action..
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman