DRN-3271294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money they lost 
when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in detail 
here. But in summary:
In early 2019, Mr F was persuaded to invest with Olympus Markets/Wisebanc. He 
initially deposited funds into his trading account using a credit card provided by 
another firm. He says the agent used remote access software to run the account, 
including trading in cryptocurrency, and they matched some of his deposits. He was 
persuaded it was genuine as he appeared to be making modest returns, with some 
losses balanced out by profits on other trades, and was able to withdraw some funds. 
On 17 May 2019, Mr F paid Olympus Markets £500, £2,500 and £3,000 using his 
Lloyds debit card. He made a further payment of £700 a few days later. He realised it 
was a scam when he was unable to withdraw any further funds. 
Lloyds says there wasnt sufficient information to raise a successful chargeback 
claim. And, although it texted Mr F about his first attempted payment to Olympus 
Markets, it doesnt believe it ought to have been suspicious about the payments.
The investigator issued his view in early December 2021 upholding the complaint. He 
thought Lloyds could, and should, have prevented the scam payments.
Our investigator gave both parties a two-week time limit to respond to his view. Mr 
and Mrs F responded to accept his findings. But Lloyds hasnt responded to the view, 
or our subsequent attempts to chase up a response. As it hasnt complied with the 
time limits weve set, Im now proceeding with my consideration of this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
For the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr F authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that he and Mrs F are liable for them. But there 
are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
That said, when simply executing authorised instructions, Lloyds doesnt have to 
protect consumers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. So Ive 
first considered whether this was a scam. I cant see this is in dispute. What Mr F has 
told us about what happened sounds characteristic of an investment scam. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued an alert about Wisebanc, one of the 
merchants he dealt with. The Investor Alerts Portal Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) has also published warnings about both Wisebanc and 
Olympus Markets, who Mr F paid directly. This is indicative that the merchants had 
dishonest intentions. On balance, I accept this was a scam.
Lloyds says Mr F first attempted to pay Olympus Markets £3,000 on 16 May 2019, 
and it was flagged with a high risk code. Lloyds believes a text would have been 
sent to Mr F, which he would have responded to confirming he was making the 
payment. It says hed previously made higher payments, so it doesnt think it ought to 
have been suspicious. But this is at odds with the fact it did flag the payment. It 
hasnt provided much information about why this flagged, but acknowledges Mr F 
hadnt made a debit card payment of this size before. Id also expect banks to 
consider factors other than size when considering if a payment is suspicious. 
Given the £3,000 payment flagged as high risk, the key question is whether Lloyds 
response was proportionate. Im not persuaded sending a text was enough. A key 
feature of these scams is the consumer is tricked into making the payment, believing 
the investment to be genuine. So checking Mr F knew about the payment wasnt 
enough for Lloyds to satisfy itself all was well. I think it should have looked into the 
circumstances further. 
If asked about how he came to make the payment, Ive no reason to doubt Mr F 
would have told Lloyds about the merchants he was dealing with, their offer to match 
some of his deposits, and the use of remote access software. Significantly, Wisebanc 
were already subject to an FCA warning by this point. I think Lloyds therefore ought 
to have picked up on the signs this was a scam, and to have warned Mr F about this. 
I think he would have been concerned to find out the merchant was trading illicitly, 
and would have relied on the banks expertise about scams, and so wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payments. But for Lloyds failure to respond appropriately to the 
risk it identified, I dont think Mr and Mrs F would have made these payments. So I 
consider it fair to hold Lloyds liable for their loss.
Ive also considered whether Mr F is partly to blame for what happened. I dont think 
he reasonably foresaw the risk this was a scam. Unlike the bank, he was a layperson 
unfamiliar with these types of scams. He was persuaded by the merchants 
paperwork and the alleged trading platform he was shown, which he thought 
appeared legitimate. He had contact with the merchants over several months. They 
showed him what appeared to be reasonable returns, and allowed him to make two 
withdrawals prior to these disputed payments (which we know is a common scam 
technique to gain trust and encourage consumers to pay more). Given the 
sophisticated nature of the scam, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I direct Lloyds Bank 
PLC to refund Mr and Mrs F these disputed payments totalling £6,700. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman