DRN-4436893
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Unum Ltd have declined a claim she made under her employers 
group income protection policy.
What happened
Miss V became absent from work in 2021 and had elective surgery to remove her appendix. 
Since surgery shes experienced a range of symptoms which she says have prevented her 
from returning to work. She made a claim on her employers group income protection policy. 
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Miss V hadnt demonstrated that she met the 
policy definition of incapacity. Miss V appealed but Unum maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the claim. He thought Unum 
had fairly declined the claim based on the available medical evidence. Miss V didnt agree 
and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She provided a lot of further medical 
evidence, which was predominantly dated after Unums final response letter was issued.
 This didnt change our investigators thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint, 
as this was evidence which hadnt been provided to Unum at the time they declined the 
claim and dealt with the complaint. So, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions set out the definition of incapacity. It says: 
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury. 
Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint because: 
Its for Miss V to demonstrate that she has a valid claim under the policy. Its not 
for Unum to show that she doesnt. 
I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that Miss V didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity based on the available medical evidence. I can see that 
Unum considered a number of possible diagnoses, including Long-Covid.   
Im satisfied that Unum completed a detailed and fair review of the medical 
evidence. At the relevant time Miss V had undergone numerous tests to try and 
uncover the reasons for the symptoms that she was experiencing. However, 
there was no known cause for them. And, in any event, the available medical 
evidence didnt give a detailed or meaningful insight into why Miss V was 
incapacitated to the extent that she wasnt able to work. 
Ive considered Miss Vs referral for the Post Covid rehabilitation service in 
December 2022, and the Occupational Health report which pre-dated the final 
response letter. Ive also thought about what Miss V has said about being signed 
off by her GP. But, I still dont Unum have acted unreasonably. As Ive outlined 
above the overall medical evidence didnt give a meaningful insight into her ability 
to work. And, being referred to a consultant or being deemed unfit to work by a 
GP or occupational specialist, doesnt automatically mean the policy definition of 
incapacity is met. For example, Miss Vs GP, and the occupational specialist 
relied on Miss Vs reporting of her symptoms and there was no clear medical 
explanation for them. So, in the circumstances of this case, I think Unum made a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the available evidence. 
I appreciate that Miss V has had more recent diagnoses, and that shes provided 
medical evidence in support of that. But this wasnt information that was available 
to Unum at the time they assessed the claim. And much of this information 
significantly post-dates the relevant time Im considering. Miss V may wish to 
provide this to Unum for them to review. However, I cant fairly say that Unum 
unreasonably rejected the claim based on the evidence that was available to 
them. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman