DRN-3142895
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way in which Studio Retail Limited has applied interest to her 
account, having not done so for some years. 
What happened
Mrs G has a running credit account with Studio Retail. That is, she has a credit limit and can 
use the account to make purchases up to that limit. She must make a minimum payment 
each month, calculated by reference to the outstanding balance at the time. Interest is 
charged on the outstanding balance, and the interest rate is variable. 
Mrs G has explained that, in December 2020 she contacted Studio Retail about the return of 
an item she had purchased. In the course of that contact she found out that interest was not 
being charged on the account and had not been charged since about 2017/2018. Studio 
Retail began to add interest to the account from around April 2021. 
Studio Retail explained that Mrs G had made a complaint in about 2018. While that 
complaint was being considered, it suspended interest on the account. In error, that 
adjustment had not been reversed when the first complaint had been resolved. Mrs H had 
therefore had the benefit of interest-free credit for around three years. 
Mrs G said that she had not been told about the suspension of interest and had not 
requested it. Because of that, she had not been aware of the true position on the account 
and had continued to use it. She also complained about the rate of interest she was being 
charged. It had increased to 59.9% from around 34% which she remembered it being. 
Mrs G referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator noted that, whilst Studio Retail had made a mistake by not 
charging interest, Mrs G had benefited from that error. The investigator was satisfied too that 
Studio Retail had increased the interest rate in 2015 and had given Mrs G the option of 
opting out of that rate change. Mrs G did not accept the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Studio Retails explanation of why interest wasnt applied to the account. I also 
accept Mrs Gs argument that she should have been told about the error  which of course 
should not have been made in the first place. But I agree with the investigator that Mrs G has 
suffered no loss as a result of the error; on the contrary, she has benefited from that error, 
because interest that would otherwise have been added to her account has not been 
applied. I note too that, even after it identified the error, Studio Retail waived one months 
interest. In the circumstances, I think that Mrs G has been adequately compensated for the 
inconvenience caused by the error. 
The interest charged in February 2018 was just over £20. No interest was applied after that 
until March 2021, when the charge was a little under £40. It appears then that Mrs G has 
benefited by a few hundred pounds.  
Studio Retails contact record for the account includes: APR 59.9% 20/11/15 OPT OUT 
DATE 08/01/16. I accept Mrs Gs point that account notes do not prove conclusively that a 
communication was either sent or received. I do however think that it is more likely than not 
that she was told in or about November 2015 that the interest rate would be changing and 
that she was given the option of avoiding any increase. That is in line with relevant 
regulations, which say that, for an account of this type, a customer can choose not to accept 
an increase in the interest rate and pay down the balance at the existing rate. Since Mrs G 
continued to use the account, I am satisfied that she did not choose to opt out of the 
increase.           
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Studio Retail Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman