DRN-3930656
The complaint
Mr D complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about an investment he 
made in 2017. He says the investment was mis-sold as he thought it would be secure and 
diversified, yet neither were true.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr D invested £20,000 into a B&G Plc Three Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. 
Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications 
for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to 
discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 
2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ds investment in the bond
Mr D told us that in late 2017, hed been looking online for somewhere to move some 
maturing ISA funds he had with his bank. He found the B&G bonds online and thought 
they offered a reasonably good return. He recalls feeling reassured when checking the 
firm was regulated and covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. He 
also received an email before investing which, in part, said Basset & Gold was set up 
by a team of seasoned professionals with decades of experience in finance. We have a 
100% track record which is something to be proud of, and we are! Basset & Gold Plc. 
has never missed any payment to investors and no investor has ever lost money with 
Basset & Gold Plc.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term 
and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went 
into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr D has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr D doesnt recall much about the application process now, but given the information 
we have received we can see his application was made on 8 December 2017 and 
appears to have been done online. We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held and were provided with some, but most were service and enquiry calls. While 
some calls were from before Mr D made his investment, they covered general points 
so these recordings have not been material in my consideration of this complaint.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mr D underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr D was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was 
the appropriateness test. As Mr D was transferring an existing ISA, he had to fill out a 
transfer form  within this, Mr D was asked some more questions about his 
understanding of the bond. 
Galliums response to Mr Ds complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said Mr D had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment, and that it wasnt responsible for the performance of 
B&G. It then made further submissions once Mr Ds complaint was referred to us. I have 
considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its 
position statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints 
about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. Initially they focussed on the claims made in the promotional material. But they 
later added to this and ultimately concluded that, in summary:
Although the certification process was misleading, had it not have been it was likely 
that  based on the information gathered about Mr Ds circumstances  hed have 
qualified as a restricted investor. 
However, the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him was misleading 
and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
So BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. Had it 
done so, Mr D wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that 
it shouldnt allow Mr D to invest. For these reasons it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Mr D for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ds complaint.
The promotional material was fair, clear and not-misleading  the investment 
activities and scope were accurate and fairly described. The appropriateness test answers and confirmations were sufficient for Gallium to 
satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved. 
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr D made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
Mr D had held numerous, similar investments before investing in B&G, so he had 
relevant investment experience. Our investigator had interpreted the requirement for 
relevant experience in an overly restrictive manner  and this was something theyd 
previously concluded differently on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached a similar 
conclusion to that of our investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr D at the certification stage by changing 
the term used in the rules from restricted investor to everyday investor and 
describing the category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating 
Mr D fairly or acting in his best interests. It does not appear BG Ltd followed its 
obligations correctly and ascertained whether Mr D met the certification criteria, however, had it have done so (and had it have not misled him), as he was investing 
5% of his investible assets he may have been able to proceed with his application.
This said, neither the appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, nor the questions on the ISA form met the requirements of the rules. And, 
had they have done so, it would have been apparent the bond was not an 
appropriate investment for Mr D as he didnt have the relevant knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved. In the circumstances Mr D would either 
not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it 
should not promote the bond to Mr D. 
For these reasons, my decision is that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. I am also 
satisfied Mr D would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have 
been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr D for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr D as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the 
bond.
I think Mr D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
It is also clear that Mr D has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. I do not believe Mr D foresaw such a drastic loss and I 
recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a 
payment of £200 is fair compensation for the upset caused.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
Three Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr D agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr D that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted some capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman