DRN-4454509
The complaint
In 2016, Mr R held a current account with HSBC Bank Plc. Someone (a cold caller) rang him 
and told him about an opportunity to invest in a property company which would give him 
good returns. Mr R subsequently invested £30,000 in the property company. He paid the 
money from his account with HSBC. 
I understand that the cold caller told Mr R that the property company would pay him a 
dividend after six months and that more would follow, and that he would also get his original 
investment back after two years. 
The property company did not pay Mr R any dividends. In July 2018, it gave him around 
£15,000 back, and then no more, meaning he had lost around £15,000. 
Mr R now thinks that the property company was fraudulent, and that HSBC should have 
stopped him making the investment. It didnt, so he wants it to refund him the money he lost 
and add interest. 
What happened
One of our investigators has already looked into this complaint and didnt recommend that 
HSBC should give Mr R any money back. Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked 
for his case to be reassessed. So, it has come to be as an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. 
Mr R hasnt sent us much information about how the cold caller got in touch with him. But I 
understand the caller sent him a lot of professional-looking brochures and other paperwork 
about the property company. 
During the course of our investigation, there has been considerable uncertainty about which 
payments Mr R made and which he received and when. However, using information from 
both Mr R and HSBC, the investigator found that Mr R probably made his investment in 
three payments in July 2016, and that he did so through a payment company who then 
passed the money on to the property company. Similarly, the investigator found that the 
property company sent two payments direct to Mr R in July 2018. In outline, the investigator 
determined that the relevant payments were as follows:
 
Payment 
numberDate Type Amount 
1 20 July 2016 Payment from Mr R to payment company £10,000.00
2 21 July 2016 Payment from Mr R to payment company £10,000.00
3 22 July 2016 Payment from Mr R to payment company £10,000.00
4 24 July 2018 Payment from property company to Mr R £15,000.00
5 25 July 2018 Payment from property company to Mr R £18.85
Both HSBC and Mr R have had the opportunity to question the investigators findings about 
this. Neither have, so I have taken them to be correct, with Mr Rs complaint being about 
payments 1, 2 and 3. Mr R made all three payments using HSBCs online payments service. 
By doing so, he effectively instructed HSBC to make the payments from his account. 
)I do not know what relationships existed between the cold caller, the payment company, 
and the property company, or exactly which of them took which actions. But as this decision 
is concerned solely with the actions of HSBC, this is not a significant concern. Where there 
is doubt, I have attributed the action in question to whichever of the three seems most likely). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sadly, fraud takes place too frequently in the finance industry. And it has several forms. The 
core of Mr Rs complaint is that he believes the payment company had no intention of paying 
him dividends and returning his investment in the way the cold caller had described. And that 
both the payment company and the cold caller knew this. Frauds like this are known as 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) frauds. 
HSBC has said that it is not convinced Mr Rs case is one of APP fraud. In 2016, both the 
property company and the payment company seem to have held appropriate registrations as 
legal companies. So, the investment opportunity the cold caller described may have been 
genuine, even though it turned out to be unfruitful for Mr R. However, the events Mr R has 
described certainly have many of the characteristics of APP fraud. And he has also told us 
that one of the property companys directors had previously served time in prison for fraud. 
So, Im totally satisfied Mr R now believes he was victim of organised deception and to be 
fair to him, and solely within this decision, I have considered his case to be one of APP 
fraud. 
While banks are normally expected to act on their customers instructions, such as Mr Rs to 
pay the payment company, APP fraud is a significant concern in the banking industry. In July 
2016, I would have expected HSBC to be looking out for anything noticeably unusual about 
payments its customers were making. And if it saw anything suspicious, I would have 
expected it to contact the customer concerned to check if fraud could have been taking 
place. 
I understand that all three payments were quite unusual for Mr R. They were for large 
amounts and Mr R had no record of using the payment company. So, I think that HSBC 
should have checked up on them. I have no significant evidence that it did so. 
However, at the time, Mr R seems to have been highly satisfied that the investment 
opportunity was real and offered him a potentially good return on his money. The cold caller 
was persuasive and the property companys literature convincing. And both the payment 
company and the property company seemed to be working legitimately. So, even if HSBC 
had made reasonable and proportionate checks, I think Mr R would have instructed it to go 
ahead. I dont hold HSBC at fault for Mr R making the three payments. 
In many cases, once a customer has told a bank of suspected fraud, I expect the bank to try 
to claim the money back from the fraudsters bank. This can be very difficult, as once 
fraudsters receive money into an account they control, they usually move it somewhere else 
quickly to reduce the chances of such attempts at recovery succeeding. So, time is of the 
essence. And in this case, it may have been made more difficult by the intermediary role of 
the payment company. I understand that HSBC has not made any attempt to recover Mr Rs money for him. But I 
gather he did not report the fraud for a long time after the three payments, by which time 
HSBCs chances of success would have been effectively zero. I do not hold HSBC 
responsible for any failure to recover the money Mr R lost after he reported the fraud. 
So, in summary, I dont think I can reasonably hold HSBC at fault for not stopping Mr R from 
making the three payments. Even if it had questioned him about them, I think he would have 
told it to go ahead. And, although HSBC didnt make any attempt to recover Mr Rs money, 
by the time it knew about the fraud, it was too late for recovery to be a realistic possibility. 
Finally, I would like to say that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr R. Losing 
money to fraud can be very upsetting and he has my sincere sympathy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint about HSBC 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman