DRN-2773945
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him a mortgage endowment 
policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage endowment policy with Aviva in 1990. The policy was due to 
mature in 2015, but Mr A says he surrendered the policy in 2001 as he sold his house. 
In 2019, Mr A complained to Aviva about the endowment being mis-sold. Aviva didnt uphold 
his complaint. It said the complaint was time barred as it had been brought too late.
Mr A, through a representative, brought his complaint to our service. They explained that the 
endowment was mis-sold to Mr A as it was unsuitable for his personal situation at the time. 
And he was told it would repay his mortgage.
Our investigator said she thought this was a complaint that we could consider, but she didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said that there wasnt enough evidence available to be able to 
assess whether the policy was suitable when it was sold. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the conclusions reached by the investigator that this 
isnt a complaint we can uphold.
Mr As representative has suggested Aviva is hiding behind the Data protection rules; and 
should get further information about this sale from its archives. But I dont agree this is the 
case; or possible. Aviva must comply with data protection regulations, which set rules for 
data retention and disposing of customer information when its no longer in use. And Aviva 
has confirmed it no longer holds any more information than has been provided. So we cant 
ask anything more of it.
By Mr As own testimony he surrendered this policy in 2001, but he didnt complain until 
2019. And that was 29 years after the sale. I cant see that Aviva had reason to believe it still 
needed to keep full records of Mr As policy until 2019, after he stopped being a customer of 
it in 2001. And so cant say its unreasonably not kept records of this policy.
With the information we do hold its not possible to conclude that this policy was mis-sold. 
We dont have any paperwork at all from the point of sale. So I cant get a clear picture of 
what was said to Mr A about the policy. And I also cant see what he explained his personal 
situation, or his attitude to risk, was in 1990.
I have considered Mr As recollections about the sale of the endowment and his personal 
situation at the time of sale. However this information is very limited, which considering the 
time passed isnt unexpected or unreasonable. But this means I cant safely say what 
happened during the sale. Without any additional paperwork to understand what was asked 
by Aviva at that time, and what information Mr A provided in response to this, I cant say this 
policy was unsuitable  and so mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman