DRN-3825161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Platinum and Premier packaged accounts in March 2002 and March 2010.
Mr and Mrs M say that they had no idea about the benefits of the accounts or about the 
monthly fee. They say they have never used the benefits and say that they should never 
have been sold the accounts and shouldve only been given fee-free accounts.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already explained that our service is unable to consider Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint about the Premier account, as it was raised outside of the time limits that 
apply when using our service.
The adjudicator did look into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the Platinum 
account and they didnt think that it had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the sale of the Platinum 
account, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only address whether the Platinum account was mis-sold. I note that Mr 
and Mrs M have also mentioned that Lloyds keep sending them a credit card. If they are 
unhappy about this, they will need to raise a separate complaint with Lloyds in the first 
instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, based on 
all of the evidence that is available, Im unable to say that the Platinum account was mis-
sold. I will explain why.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice. Prior to Mr 
and Mrs M upgrading their account to a Platinum account, I can see that their account was a 
standard fee-free current account. As such, I think that Mr and Mrs M were aware that fee-
free accounts were generally available when they agreed to the Platinum account. Ive also 
not seen anything that makes me think that Mr and Mrs M were led to believe they were 
obliged to upgrade their account. Indeed, Mr and Mrs M say that the upgrade was offered to 
them as they were long standing customers, and theyve not said anything to suggest that 
the upgrade was presented in a way that led them to believe they had no choice in the 
matter.
As such, taking everything into account, I think that Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice 
when they agreed to upgrade their account to a fee-paying Platinum account.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr and Mrs M. This meant that it had to ensure the 
account was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
At the time, the Platinum account cost £12 per month and included benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, extended warranty cover and card protection 
cover. It also included other features such as an interest free overdraft benefit on the first 
£250 of an arranged overdraft, and preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above 
this amount (up to the arranged limit). It also provided discounts on a variety of other 
products, including loans.
Mr and Mrs M have said that at the time they drove and occasionally travelled abroad, 
including to destinations outside of Europe. And I can see that they took out a loan around 
the same time that they upgraded to the Platinum account (and another one in 2004). So 
they were able to get a lower rate of interest on their loan as a result of having the Platinum 
account as well.
So taking everything into account, I think that Lloyds recommendation that they upgrade 
looks to have been appropriate at the time.
As well as making sure that the account was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs M the important information 
about the account, so they understood what they were agreeing to, and also were aware of 
the important terms and limitations of the insurance benefits.
Mr and Mrs M say they had no idea about the benefits that were included with the account. 
However, I think its likely that they were told about the cost of the account and also that they 
would be able to get a lower rate of interest on loans if they were to upgrade. 
Lloyds has also provided evidence to show that Mr M contacted the Platinum account travel 
insurer in February 2008 and June 2009 (and many times after their account was upgraded 
to the Premier account as well). So overall, I think its likely that they were given information 
about the account cost and the main benefits when it was sold to them.
Due to the lack of information from the time of the sale, its difficult for me to say that Mr and 
Mrs M were given all of the important information about the account during the sale. But 
equally, Ive not seen anything that makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing 
to it, had they been given even more information about the account and the benefits. For 
example, Mr and Mrs M say that they had to arrange separate travel cover for Mr M due to a 
medical condition that required him to have a medical device. However, I can see that they 
did declare Mr Ms medical conditions to the insurer in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2016 and 
2017  so it seems they were generally aware of the need to do this and knowing about this 
did not prompt them to change account.  
As such, taking everything into account, based on the evidence that is available, Im unable 
to say that the Platinum account was mis-sold. On the contrary, it seems that Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to the Platinum account as they were able to take advantage of some the benefits it 
provided. I appreciate that it may be the case that Mr and Mrs M now cant recall what 
happened when the account was sold to them  which is understandable given that it was 
sold to them 20 years ago. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by selling the Platinum account to them when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold to 
Mr and Mrs M. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman