DRN-2474808
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that a timeshare contract was misrepresented to them. Because the 
contract was financed under arrangements between the seller and Paragon Bank Plc, they 
say that it is jointly liable with the timeshare business under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 for their losses.
What happened
In January 1999 Mr and Mrs N entered into a contract with a holiday company, S. Under the 
contract Mr and Mrs N agreed to buy and S agreed to sell  the benefit of Exclusive Rights 
of Occupation at [S] Resorts 
Mr and Mrs N funded the agreement with a loan provided by Paragon under arrangements it 
had with S. The loan was for £4,200 and was to run for 10 years. 
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs N complained to Paragon, through a representative, L. L said, 
amongst other things, that: S had misrepresented the terms of the contract; Mr and Mrs N 
had been unduly pressured into entering into the agreement, having been invited to a 
presentation in a cold-call and told they had won a holiday; S had been in breach of the 
relevant regulations covering timeshare agreements; the loan agreement was unfair under 
section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974; and Mr and Mrs N had served 
notice of termination under section 24 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. 
L said in addition that there had been no proper credit assessment before Paragon made the 
loan available to Mr and Mrs N. 
Paragon did not respond substantively to the complaint. In May 2019 it said that, in the 
absence of a signed and dated letter of authority from Mr and Mrs N, it could not deal with L. 
L referred the matter to this service and, once we were satisfied that Mr and Mrs N had given 
the necessary authority, one of our investigators considered it. He thought however that, 
whilst the complaint had been referred to us within our own time limits, the underlying claim 
against S was likely to be time-barred under the Limitation Act 2010. In the circumstances, 
Paragons treatment of it had been reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs N (by now represented by solicitors rather than by L) did not accept the 
investigators initial view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first that the agreement between Mr and Mrs N and S was signed in January 1999. As 
L noted, its wording used rather esoteric language. Partly for that reason, it is not entirely 
clear that it was covered by the timeshare legislation that applied at the time  the 
Timeshare Act 1992 and the Timeshare Regulations 1997. But the 2010 regulations were 
not in force at the time, and so cannot have been relevant to the sale. However, for reasons I 
shall explain, it isnt necessary for me to make any findings on those issues.
I should mention too that Paragons initial reason for not dealing with the complaint was that 
it did not have Mr and Mrs Ns authority to deal with L. Based on the documents that L 
provided, however, it appears that a letter of authority was enclosed with the initial complaint 
letter.    
The rules covering the handling of complaints by the Financial Ombudsman Service say that 
we cannot consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six years after the event 
complained of or, if later, more than three years after the complainant knew or ought 
reasonably to have known that they had cause for complaint. We can disregard those time 
limits if the failure to comply with them was the result of exceptional circumstances. 
Part of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint here is that Paragon did not carry out a proper credit 
assessment before agreeing to the loan. The loan was however made in 1999, some 20 
years before any complaint was made. If no proper credit assessment was made, it seems 
to me that Mr and Mrs N would have known about that many years earlier  because its 
likely they would have had difficulties making payments. For that reason, I believe that this 
part of the complaint was brought outside our own time limits and that I therefore have no 
power to consider it. 
But, even if I were to take a different view (for example, because of exceptional 
circumstances), I note that Paragon says it no longer has any records relating to the loan. 
That is, it is not in a position to put its own case. The loan term was 10 years, so I think that 
is probably true. 
The main part of the complaint against Paragon is not however that it misrepresented the 
contract with S. Rather, it is that Paragon did not respond fairly to Mr and Mrs Ns claim 
under section 75. It gave that response in May 2019, and that is the event giving rise to this 
complaint. I am satisfied that I do have power to consider the complaint about that response. 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer, who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a loan provided under arrangements between the 
lender and the supplier, has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against that 
supplier, they have a like claim against the lender. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to 
discuss those here.
The contract between Mr and Mrs N on the one hand and S on the other said that all 
payments should be made to a trustee company, H. The loan agreement however referred 
only to S, so I think it likely that Paragon in fact paid S, not H. I am satisfied that section 75 
applies in this case. That means that, if Mr and Mrs N have a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against S, they have a like claim against Paragon. 
The investigator concluded that Paragon had not treated Mr and Mrs N unfairly because any 
claim against S would now be out of time under the Limitation Act. 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) cannot generally be brought after six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Different time limits apply for 
certain types of claim, but I am satisfied that six years is the relevant time limit here. Mr and 
Mrs Ns cause of action (assuming what they say about what happened is correct) accrued 
no later than the date on which they signed the contract and made payment  that is, in 
January 1999. But it was not until some 20 years later that they made a claim. 
L suggested too that Mr and Mrs N could bring a claim under sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act for an order declaring the credit agreement unfair to them. Such an 
order can only be made by a court, but in any event the time limit for such a claim generally 
runs from the date the finance agreement ended. It appears here that was in 2009. 
For these reasons, I believe that any claim in court would now be brought outside the 
relevant time limits in the Limitation Act and would be extremely unlikely to succeed. I 
believe it was therefore fair of Paragon to decline to look any further into Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Paragon Bank Plc to do anything 
further to resolve Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 
28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman