DRN-3575791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) hasnt refunded in 
full payments made when they were misled into agreeing to relinquish a timeshare and 
exchange it for travel credits. The arrangements were paid for in part using Mr As Tesco 
Bank credit card, so they say that Tesco is liable to meet their claims. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A were timeshare owners through a well-known timeshare and holiday club 
business, C. They have explained that, whilst they were generally happy with their timeshare 
arrangements, the management fees associated with them had risen significantly and it was 
become increasingly difficult to find suitable exchange properties.
In November 2015 Mr and Mrs A were on holiday in Spain, when they were invited to a 
discussion about their timeshare by someone they initially believed to be linked to C. As a 
result of that meeting, however, they agreed to relinquish their timeshare with C and to buy 
holiday credits. In total, they were to pay £13,950  £2,000 by credit card and the balance by 
bank transfer. (In fact, the card payment was a little less than that because of exchange rate 
changes, but that is not directly relevant to the complaint). 
By 2018 it became apparent to Mr and Mrs A that their timeshare would not be relinquished 
or taken over as they had been promised, and it seemed unlikely that the holiday credits 
they had bought would be repurchased as they had been told they would. In addition, far 
from entitling them to 70% discounts as they had been promised, Mr and Mrs A found that 
the holiday credits were worth at most 10% off the price of holidays, less than they could 
obtain elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Tesco Bank, saying that it should refund the full amount they 
had paid, because part of that sum had been paid by credit card. Tesco Bank agreed to 
refund the sum paid by credit card and refunded £2,016.46 (the difference again accounted 
for by exchange rates) but declined to refund the balance of £11,950. That was, it said, 
because:
that payment had been made by direct transfer from Mr and Mrs As account with a 
different bank;
it had been made to a different party from that which took the credit card payment; and
it was made for the purchase of the holiday credits, which was a different contract from 
that for the relinquishment of the timeshare.   
Mr and Mrs A did not accept Tesco Banks offer and, through a representative, referred the 
matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened and 
recommended that the complaint be upheld and that Tesco Bank refund the payments in full. 
She took the view that the agreement to take over or arrange for the relinquishment of the 
timeshare and the agreement for the sale of the holiday credits were sufficiently closely 
linked that they were, in effect, a single agreement and that Mr A therefore had a claim 
against Tesco Bank in the same way he had a claim against the sellers. 
Tesco Bank did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
consider the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, the credit card account was in Mr As name alone, so this complaint arises from his 
relationship as a customer of Tesco Bank. That means that only he can bring this complaint 
and I can only make an award in his favour. I shall therefore refer to him alone as the 
complainant. I do of course note that Mrs A was a party to the underlying arrangements, but 
she was not a customer of the bank. 
Mr As claim against Tesco Bank arises under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. One effect of section 75 is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim 
against a creditor. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the transaction giving rise to the claim; and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Credit includes credit provided through spending on a credit card account. And a merchant 
which accepts credit card payments does so under pre-existing arrangements with the card 
issuer  through the card scheme, in this case MasterCard. 
Tesco Banks case here is that Mr A entered into two separate contracts with two different 
parties and that only one of those transactions was financed with his credit card; it has 
already refunded the payment made in respect of that transaction, so does not need to do 
any more. 
I have therefore considered the contractual arrangements that Mr A made.    
The contractual documents include:
an invoice in the name of NXG Ltd, an Isle of Man company;
a request for payment of £11,950 to NXG;
an invoice in the name of Escapeway SL, a company registered in Spain;
Appendix A, a Product Sales Code; 
Appendix B, Product Essentials and a Declaration; 
Terms and Conditions of the Holiday Credits; 
A letter of 26 November 2015 about the resale of Travel 07 credits; and
A letter of the same date about termination of the timeshare. 
The invoice in the name of NXG and the payment request indicate that Mr and Mrs A bought 
100,000 Travel 07 Credits for £11,950 and that payment was to be made by transfer to that 
companys bank account in the Isle of Man  as in fact it was.
The invoice in the name of Escapeway indicates that a payment of £2,000 was made for the 
administrative cost of the relinquishment of the timeshare and enrolment in a timeshare 
exchange programme. That payment was made by credit card. The Product Sales Code refers to Travel 07 and its resellers and sets out the standards 
required. It is not clear however which company produced that document. It refers to 
Appendix B. 
Appendix B sets out briefly how Travel 07 credits can be used and includes a declaration 
signed by Mr and Mrs A. The only business mentioned is Travel 07  without explanation of 
whose trading name that is. 
The Terms and Conditions include the following definition:
Our and Us refers to the seller (vendor) whose trading style appears on your order and 
invoice
The first letter is from Escapeway SL and says:
Please accept this letter as confirmation that you have the option after 3 years, to market 
and resell your Travel 07 credits.
You can do this directly yourselves or we will assist you through our resale network.
We will re-market them for 55% of the Travel 07 listed price, however as you own the 
credits, the value you wish to re-market at, is entirely your choice. 
The second letter is an instruction, signed by Mr and Mrs A, giving Leisure Travel permission 
to arrange for the termination of their timeshare with C. It begins:
I/We understand that the process of ownership termination will start upon completion of the 
Purchase Contract. 
It is also signed on behalf of Leisure Travel, on the face of it by the same individual who 
signed the Escapeway invoice. It instructs Mr and Mrs A to send their membership certificate 
to Leisure Travel c/o Escapeway SL. It does not say expressly whether Leisure Travel is a 
trading name of Escapeway SL or some other company. 
The invoices and the payments made do in my view seek to give the impression of two 
entirely separate contracts  one by which Escapeway agrees to arrange the relinquishment 
of the timeshare and a second by which NXG sells the Travel 07 credits. But in my view that 
does not give either a full or an accurate picture. And, whether by design or otherwise, the 
precise role of each company and the trading names they use are somewhat opaque. 
Mr and Mrs A have explained that their primary motivation for entering into the arrangements 
as they did was to relinquish their timeshare. I accept that was the case. I think it unlikely 
therefore that they would have bought Travel 07 credits unless that had been part of the 
arrangement for relinquishment of the timeshare. Part of the deal for the Travel 07 credits 
was that they would be bought back or re-sold. The first letter I have cited above indicates 
that this was Escapeways responsibility.  
I think it is clear from the contractual documents  when read as a whole rather than in 
isolation  that the two parts of the arrangement were inextricably linked. The instructions to 
arrange for the termination of the timeshare expressly say that the termination will only start 
on completion of the contract for the purchase of the Travel 07 credits. Put another way, it 
was a condition of Escapeway starting the termination that Mr and Mrs A buy the credits 
from NXG. I note as well that it was Escapeway, not NXG, which promised to market the 
Travel 07 credits. As I have explained, I think the resale option was a key part of Mr and Mrs 
As agreement to buy them in the first place. 
For these reasons, I think the reality was that Escapeway SL agreed to arrange for the termination of the timeshare with C. In return, Mr and Mrs A agreed to pay £2,000 and to buy 
100,000 Travel 07 credits from NXG at a cost of £11,950. That was a single transaction. The 
timeshare was not terminated in line with the agreement, and it therefore seems likely that 
there was a breach of a contract which was funded in part by Mr As credit card payment. I 
note in addition that neither Escapeway nor NXG is still trading, so it seems unlikely that they 
will be able to arrange for relinquishment of the timeshare or for the resale of the Travel 07 
credits. 
For the purposes of section 75 liability, it does not matter that the agreement was only 
funded in part by the credit card payment. It is, for example, sufficient that a deposit is paid 
by credit card. 
I am therefore in agreement with the investigators recommendations. 
For completeness, section 75 can apply where a business which takes a credit card 
payment is an associate of the business with which the cardholder has contracted. 
Whether companies are associates of each other depends on who controls them. Given my 
findings about the nature of the contract here, I have not considered that issue any further in 
this case.     
Putting things right
As I have indicated, the effect of section 75(1) here is that Mr A has a like claim against the 
bank as he has against Escapeway. The usual remedy for breach of contract is to put the 
innocent party in the position they would have been in if the contract had been performed. I 
do not believe that is possible here, but I am required to determine Mr As complaint by 
reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, 
the investigators recommendation of a full refund and interest is fair in this case.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint in full, Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC should pay Mr A £11,950, together with interest at 8% a year simple (being the 
current judgment rate) from 31 December 2015 until payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman