DRN-3296495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained about poor workmanship / damage caused by Ageas Insurance 
Limited (Ageas) whilst it carried out works to settle a damage claim under Mr and Mrs Cs 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Ageas appointed contractors to carry out works at Mr and Mrs Cs home to rectify damage to 
their home following an escape of water claim. However, Mr and Mrs C were unhappy as 
they said Ageas decorator caused damage to their solid oak flooring. They thought this may 
have been caused by the decorators ladder.
Ageas didnt provide a formal response to the complaint, so as eight weeks has passed the 
complaint was escalated to our service. Ageas contractor did say it didnt cause the 
damage.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the evidence and testimony 
provided by Mr and Mrs C was persuasive and it matched the timeline of events. So, he 
asked for Ageas to repair the damage to the floor or replace it. He also awarded £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ageas didnt respond, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas managed the claim and appointed the contractors who carried out the work in 
settlement of the claim. Therefore, Ageas is responsible for the work that has been carried 
out. So, if I see evidence that Ageas contractor did cause damage to Mr and Mrs Cs 
flooring, then Im likely to uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence Mr and Mrs C has provided to demonstrate that the damage to 
their flooring was caused by Ageas contractors. Mr and Mrs C said we wish to draw 
attention to the fact that [Ageas] originally scheduled to replace the living room floor also, 
until we pointed out that this floor had not been damaged by water ingress and was in 
excellent condition. It was removed from the [works] schedule. We also noted that [the 
contractor] when replacing the dining room ceiling and all the necessary other decorative 
work used a robust special wall to wall protective sheeting. The replaced dining room 
flooring was left perfectly undamaged. However, in the living room the painter used old 
soiled sheets. We believe this contributed to the damage as he moved metal ladders around 
the room.
Ageas hasnt provided a formal response on the complaint, so I cant see that it has provided 
evidence or comments to contradict what Mr and Mrs C said. I think the testimony Mr and 
Mrs C has provided is logical  if the flooring was in excellent condition before the works 
started and was removed from the statement of works, then I think it seems most likely the 
floor was undamaged before Ageas contractors started work.
Mr and Mrs C said that one of Ageas contractor arranged for a specialist to look at the 
damage. Mr and Mrs C said the specialist said there was evidence of damage to at least 36 
of the flooring boards. Mr and Mrs C has also provided several photographs of the scratches 
on their floor. Im persuaded there is damage to the floor. Given, I think the floor was in good 
condition before the work started and there was damage evident after the work was 
completed. I think its reasonable to conclude, its most likely the contractors caused the 
damage whilst carrying out the works to Mr and Mrs Cs home. I havent seen any significant 
evidence or testimony from Ageas or its contractors that gives me reason to doubt what Mr 
and Mrs C has said. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas to arrange for the 
repair to the flooring to be carried out within a reasonable timeframe or arrange for it to be 
replaced on a like for like basis. Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs C are agreeable, then Ageas can 
provide a cash settlement in lieu of repairing the damage based on quotes Mr and Mrs C 
provide (Ageas should pay for the cost of the quote if costs are charged). I think Mr and Mrs 
C have suffered distress and inconvenience because of this complaint. The standard of 
service from Ageas in dealing with the issue has been lacking and Mr and Mrs C have had to 
put up with a damaged floor for a long period, so I award £200 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Arrange for the repair to the flooring to be carried out within a reasonable timeframe 
or arrange for it to be replaced on a like for like basis.
Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs C are agreeable, then Ageas can provide a cash 
settlement in lieu of repairing the damage based on quotes Mr and Mrs C provide 
(Ageas should pay for the cost of the quote if costs are charged).
Pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman