DRN-1726616
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that The Share Centre Limited unfairly applied the standard dealing 
charges on a number of trades rather than the cheaper frequent dealing charges.
What happened
The Share Centre said she was an execution-only customer who had signed up to the 
standard dealing option and therefore this was the basis on which it dealt with his trades. It 
was not obliged to proactively recommend she switch to the frequent dealing option or 
undertake trades under this different pricing plan.
An investigator at this service agreed with the Share Centres assessment, saying it had 
been fully entitled to levy the fees Mrs K had agreed to when she took out the service under 
the standard dealing charges option.
Mr K, on Mrs K's behalf, said they accepted they had signed up to an execution-only service 
and chosen the standard dealing option but felt The Share Centre should have applied the 
frequent dealing charges  in line with its responsibility to treat customers fairly - once it 
became obvious what was happening. He and his wife had been charged over £1,600 for 
trades which would have cost under £200 under the frequent dealing option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I recognise that there was a dramatic difference between what Mr and Mrs K were charged 
under the standard dealing option and what they could have paid under the frequent option 
but I dont think The Share Centre could reasonably be expected to simply select the 
cheapest tariff depending on what trade/s a customer makes. It offered clear charging 
options and Mrs K chose the standard dealing one. So while I agree that a business should 
always treat customers fairly  and this sometimes means going beyond the strict terms and 
conditions  I dont think The Share Centre ought to have acted differently in this case.
My final decision
 I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman