DRN-2834767
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) were responsible for the 
delay in arranging a valuation of their property, resulting in them having to pay interest on 
their mortgage for longer than they should. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D have an interest only, lifetime mortgage with RBS. In March 2020 Mr D and 
Mrs D informed RBS they were looking to sell part of their property and RBS told them it 
required  a valuation on the property to establish its value after the sale of part of the land. 
However, due to the impact of the Covid pandemic the valuation wasnt completed until late 
June 2020, some three months later. Mr D and Mrs D says they arent responsible for the 
delay Covid caused and wish RBS to refund the interest they have paid for the three months 
from March to June 2020.
RBS says the delay wasnt of their doing as they had instructed the valuation. RBS says the 
local valuers werent able to complete the valuation, as all physical property inspections 
were suspended in March 2020, to comply with government guidelines, as a result of the 
Covid pandemic. 
Mr D and Mrs D werent happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt that RBS couldnt be held responsible for the fact the Covid pandemic had resulted in the 
suspension of property valuations and this was outside of their control. The investigator says 
it was part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage that interest was required to be paid 
each month until it was repaid in full.  
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr D and Mrs D to have asked for a 
valuation to be carried out only to be told, due to the Covid pandemic, it was going to be 
delayed which would result in delaying the sale of part of the land on their property. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if RBS were responsible for delaying the valuation 
being completed on Mr D and Mrs Ds property. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
What happened here from the information I have seen, is Mr D and Mrs D were looking to 
sell part of their land and a requirement of RBS was to have a valuation carried out to 
ascertain the propertys value post the sale of the land, as the existing lifetime mortgage 
would remain in place. 
I can see RBS received a cheque, from Mr D and Mrs Ds solicitor, for the instruction of the 
property valuation report on 17 March 2020. Unfortunately, this was only a matter of days 
before the government issued businesses with guidelines meaning physical property 
inspections were suspended. Although the instructions for the valuation were held a few 
days before this government guideline came into force, unfortunately from the information I 
have seen, the local property valuers didnt have the capacity to carry out this valuation, 
because of existing workloads due to the short notice of the impending restrictions.  
Its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced 
problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its important that this is taken 
into account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable to impartially resolve a 
complaint. And here, while Mr D and Mrs D have been inconvenienced and I can understand 
their frustrations, I am satisfied this was unavoidable due to the challenging and exceptional 
circumstance the pandemic presented. Its reasonable to say, because RBS were using the 
services of a local valuer, I cant hold them responsible for the fact the valuer, like all 
property valuers, had to comply with government guidelines during this difficult time. 
I understand Mr D and Mrs Ds point that they werent responsible for the issues the 
pandemic caused and they shouldnt suffer financially as a result. That said, from the 
information I have seen, the sale of the land completed in July 2020, following the receipt of 
the valuation report the previous month. Its fair to say given the mortgage wasnt repaid 
from those proceeds, any interest on that mortgage would have been due in any event, and 
it follows the delay of the valuation report  wouldnt have affected the payment of interest due 
to be paid on Mr D and Mrs Ds mortgage. So, I cant say that Mr D and Mrs D have suffered 
any financial loss relating to the interest payments on their mortgage as a result of the delay 
of the valuation report here. 
While Mr D and Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
RBS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman