DRN-4325108
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way BISL Limited assisted him with his claim under his car 
insurance policy for damage to his car.
What happened
Mrs P had an accident in the car insured under Mr Ps policy with an insurer who Ill refer to 
as U. She contacted BISL, who are the insurance broker who sold and administered Mr Ps 
policy, despite it being branded as a policy arranged by a large bank. Mrs P explained the 
circumstances of the accident to the adviser. He suggested she should make a claim against 
the other parties insurer, who Ill refer to as D, through a hire car and accident management 
company Ill refer to as E. He explained E were a separate company. 
E tried to gain an admission of liability from D, but it seems D did not respond to their 
correspondence. In view of this E told Mr P they were going to refer the matter back to U, so 
he could make a claim under his policy. There were then a number of issues with Us 
handling of the claim against Mr Ps policy and his car did not get repaired. 
Mr P complained about both U and BISL. BISL issued a final response in which they 
apologised for the fact E hadnt been proactive in chasing D and they paid Mr P £50 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr P remained dissatisfied and asked us to 
consider his complaints about U and BISL. 
Mr Ps complaint against U was eventually considered by us. In the end another ombudsman 
upheld it and awarded compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr P experienced 
as a result of poor claim handling by U. 
An investigator considered Mr Ps complaint about BISL. He said that BISLs adviser hadnt 
explained clearly enough to Mrs P when she reported the claim what would happen if E 
handled her claim and the possible implications of this. He said Mr P could still claim under 
his own policy, but that BISL should pay Mr P £150 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I reviewed the evidence and called Mr P to discuss his complaint. I explained the parties 
involved in the claim process he and Mrs P had ended up in and what could have happened 
if his car had been repaired through E and theyd provided him with a hire car. I also 
explained that his own policy with U has a £750 excess and this means if the repairs to his 
car cost less than this there wouldnt be anything for U to pay. And that in this scenario his 
only options would be to claim the cost of repair directly from D or simply pay the cost 
himself and not make a claim.
Mr P explained that he found the whole process very confusing and not at all transparent 
and that at the end of it all, he is no further forward with getting his car repaired.
Having spoken to Mr P, I considered what hed said along with the other evidence. And I 
wrote to BISL to say I agreed with our investigator that their adviser hadnt explained things 
clearly enough to Mrs P when he referred her to E. And I went on to explain that I felt this 
had caused Mr P a great deal of distress and inconvenience and that this warranted a 
payment of £300 in compensation in total. This meant they would have to pay a further £250, 
having already paid Mr P £50.
I let Mr P know Id done this and I gave BISL until 6 September to provide their comments. 
BISL have responded and said they agree with my view that they should pay a total of £300 
in compensation.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the same reason as our 
investigator and to award the additional £250 I suggested to BISL was fair compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr P experienced, which theyve now agreed to pay. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation the adviser had with Mrs P when he referred the 
claim to E. And I dont think he provided Mrs P with sufficient information for her and Mr P to 
decide whether to let E handle their claim, claim under Mr Ps own policy or simply handle it 
themselves and claim against D. I say this because the adviser didnt explain to Mrs P that in 
allowing E to handle the claim Mr P would be stepping outside a regulated insurance 
contract and that any dispute relating to the hire costs or repairs would need to be resolved 
directly with E, with recourse to alternative dispute resolution unlikely. Neither did he explain 
that if the repair or hire costs were disputed Mr P could become liable for them. The adviser 
did at least explain that Mr P may have to co-operate with E in the recovery of these costs, 
but this did not highlight the danger of him becoming liable for them. 
As a result of this poor referral and  even allowing for the follow up correspondence that 
was sent to Mr P - I think Mr P ended up in a process he didnt fully understand and one he 
may well have chosen to avoid. And I think as a result he has experienced a great deal of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
As Ive already explained, I think BISLs failure to explain things properly to Mr and Mrs P 
caused Mr P a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And I think this warrants a 
compensation payment of £300 in total. This means BISL will need to pay Mr P a further 
£250.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about BISL Limited and order them 
to pay him a further £250 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman