DRN-2062757
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has charged 
him over £1,000 for damage to a car he took on hire purchase. 
What happened
In September 2016 Mr B took a car from MBFS under a three-year hire purchase 
agreement. The agreement included a requirement that the car be returned in line with the 
Vehicle Return Standards. The section of the agreement dealing with those standards 
included a list of the type of damage that would be acceptable and examples of damage that 
wouldnt be acceptable. 
The hire purchase agreement provided that, if Mr B were to break any terms of the 
agreement, including return of vehicle requirements, he would have to pay MBFSs 
reasonable expenses of putting things right.    
When Mr B returned the car, it was inspected and a condition report was prepared by British 
Car Auctions (BCA). That report noted damage to all four alloy wheels, a dent to one of the 
cars C-posts and scratches to the rear bumper. It also noted that one of the keys was 
missing. Repairs and replacing the key would cost £1,130. 
Mr B thought this was unreasonable. He said the damage to the wheels was wear and tear, 
as was the scratch to the bumper; the dent was barely visible. He said too that he had 
returned the key by post. He referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it.
The investigator considered the BCA report, along with guidelines published by the British 
Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVLRA). Having done so, he concluded that the 
damage reported fell outside the scope of normal wear and tear and that the charges werent 
unreasonable. Mr B didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. 
Mr B didnt return the spare key with the car. He says he returned it separately by sending it 
by post. Unfortunately, however, he didnt keep any proof of posting or, perhaps more 
importantly, of delivery. Im satisfied however that MBFS didnt receive it. In the 
circumstances, I dont believe it was unreasonable for MBFS to charge Mr B for a 
replacement.
I turn therefore to the damage. Ive considered the BCA report  including photographs of 
the damage  alongside the hire purchase agreement, MBFSs own published Vehicle 
return standards booklet and the BVLRA guidelines. I note the following:
Two of the wheels had damage of over 50mm on the circumference, and two had 
damage to the spokes and/or hub. Both are outside DVLRA guidelines. 
The dent was on a high profile panel; the hire purchase agreement expressly said that 
any dent to a high profile panel wasnt acceptable. 
The damage to the bumper was evident and, according to the BCA report, covered 
more than 75mm by 75mm. 
I note too that Mr B signed the report to say that he agreed with the reported condition. Im 
satisfied therefore that the report was accurate and that the damage listed was outside both 
MBFSs wear and tear guidelines and of the industry standard guidelines produced by the 
DVLRA. It follows that Im satisfied too that MBFS didnt act unreasonably in seeking the 
additional charges from Mr B.  
Mr B has suggested that the car wasnt in fact repaired before it was auctioned. The charges 
werent however conditional on repairs being carried out by or for MBFS. Mr Bs obligation 
was to meet the reasonable expenses, whether or not they were incurred. In any event, its 
likely that a buyer would have had regard to any damage in agreeing a price for the car.  
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman