DRN-2873578
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) marked his 
credit file.
What happened
In 2014, Mr A agreed a payment plan on his Barclaycard. The debt was £10,550. Reduced 
payments of £150 per month were agreed. Several other plans were agreed between then 
and when the balance was repaid in October 2020. Barclaycard notified the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) of the plans.
Mr A complained. He wasnt aware that the plans would affect his credit file. Barclaycard 
hadnt been clear about this. When the plan was agreed, he wasnt in financial difficulty and 
didnt need it  if hed known the impact, he wouldnt have set them up. Hes now having 
problems getting affordable credit as a result of the entries on his credit file.
Barclaycard said they had an obligation to report factual information to credit reference 
agencies  and thats what they did in Mr As case.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered that Barclaycard had acted 
fairly  theyd made him aware that credit reference agencies would be notified.
Mr A asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A agreed a payment arrangement in June 2014. Then, he had a debt of 
£10,550. The agreement was that hed pay £150 a month. Before that, the monthly minimum 
payments were about £244.So  Barclaycard agreed he could pay less. And - a lower 
interest rate was also agreed  0.25% per month (APR3%), compared to the normal rate of 
1.736% a month. Further plans were agreed annually as follows:
May 2015 - £150 per month, interest 0.25% per month (APR 3%)
June 2016 - £135 per month, interest 0.25% per month (APR 3%)
June 2017 - £150 per month, interest 0.25% per month (APR 3%)
At each date, Mr A was sent a letter which confirmed the arrangements, and these said 
Credit Reference Agencies In the same way that other lenders do, we share information 
about our customers with Credit Reference Agencies.  We will let the Credit Reference 
Agencies know that we have agreed a repayment plan with you. We believe this
is important as it shows you arranged to make reduced payments to your account. So  Mr 
A was advised that CRAs would be told. Hes said to us that Barclaycard didnt tell him that 
this could affect his ability to get credit in the future. I can see where hes coming from  but 
that said, Barclaycard have done what they had to in their letters to him. And  the letters 
were sent each time the plan was agreed.
Mr A has said that he wasnt in financial trouble when the plans were agreed  and that he 
wouldnt have agreed to them if hed known about the affect on his credit file. Ive thought 
about this and looked at his statements. There are some missed payments  which do 
suggest that he was struggling at the time. These were in May 2014, July 2014 and July 
2017. And I can see there were returned (unpaid) direct debits for the monthly payments in 
August 2014, August 2015, September 2015 and December 2015. So  it looks like Mr A 
needed some help and Barclaycard were trying to be supportive.
I was sorry to hear that Mr A is now finding that hes going to have to pay more for credit 
than he otherwise would. But - like all lenders, Barclaycard have an obligation to report 
accurate information on customers to the CRAs. And - I think they were clear in their 
communications that CRAs would be advised. 
So, my decision is that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman