DRN-4418255
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has handled his 
claim on his commercial van insurance policy. He says the service he got from Haven and 
the standard of its repairs to his van were both poor. And Mr C doesnt think the settlement 
Haven gave him when ultimately it declared his van a total loss was fair.
Haven is the underwriter of Mr Cs policy, so its his insurer. Part of this complaint is
about how Havens agents have acted. As Haven has accepted its accountable for the
actions of its agents, in my decision, any reference to Haven includes its agents.
What happened
The chain of events in Mr Cs claim is long and complex but is well-known to both him and
Haven. So, for the purposes of this decision, Im going to summarise what I think are the key
events and issues.
Mr C made two claims at the same time on his van insurance policy with Haven. The first
was a fault claim following storm damage (which had occurred a few months before he made
the claims), the second was a non-fault claim.
Havens approved repairer network arranged for one of its repairers to carry out the repairs
for both claims. I understand the repairs for the non-fault claim were completed in July 2022
and for the fault claim in September 2022.
At around the time the fault claim repairs were being carried out, Mr C complained to Haven
that hed had no communication from it. He also said Havens approved repairer hadnt
answered his calls or made contact to update him in any way for nearly three months. 
Because of this, he said hed had to make multiple personal visits to the approved repairer to 
check on the progress of the repairs. Haven said the delays Mr C experienced were justified
but communication by its approved repairer had been poor. So Haven paid Mr C £150 in
compensation for the inconvenience this had caused him.
After the fault claim repairs had been completed, Mr C complained to Haven that they were
below standard. Mr C met the assessor Haven appointed to inspect the repairs. He says
over 70 defects were identified then and a further 20 were highlighted later. Havens
assessor gave a detailed report on the work needed to rectify the repair faults. The report
also noted a private agreement between Mr C and the approved repairer to repaint the left
side of the van.
Some weeks after submitting its report, Havens assessor said it couldnt give an estimate
for the rectification work, due to its complexity. Mr C says that, after weeks of back and
forth, Haven then asked him to get his own estimate. Mr C says he mustve approached ten
garages before finding one that would give an estimate. But Haven and its assessor didnt
accept the estimate Mr C got and so a fresh dispute arose.
In the end, around eight months after Mr C first made his claims, Haven said it would settle
Mr Cs fault claim on a total loss basis. It offered Mr C £17,095 to settle the claim but with a
deduction of £1,050 for Mr Cs policy excess.
Mr C initially said hed accept Havens offer if it agreed to waive his policy excess. Haven
refused and so under protest Mr C accepted Havens offer.
Separate to this, Havens approved repairer network had also been looking at a complaint
Mr C had made about its service. In its response to Mr C, the network said (among other
things) the poor repair work by its approved repairer was not acceptable. It offered Mr C
£200 in compensation for this, £50 for poor communication and another £50 because it said
Havens decision to offer Mr C a total loss settlement couldve been made sooner than it
was.
Unhappy with these outcomes, Mr C brought his complaint to us. The investigator who
looked at it didnt think Haven needed to do anything more, since it and its agents had
already paid Mr C £450 in total in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they had
caused him.
Mr C disagreed. In the very briefest of terms, Mr C was unhappy with the valuation Haven 
gave him for his van  he said it hadnt taken into consideration his van was a limited edition
anniversary model. And Mr C said his claims experience as a whole had nearly broken him
as a human being and had also strained both his home relationships and his finances. He
didnt think the compensation Haven had paid him reflected the impact its failings had had
on him.
In my provisional decision of 23 October 2023, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Haven has accepted my decision. Mr C has given me some further comments on 
why he thinks the valuation for his van should be increased. So Mr Cs complaint has now 
come to me for a final decision.
Mr C has previously paid privately to have some of the damage to his van repaired. This is 
because Haven had disputed it had been caused by the storm that led to Mr Cs fault claim. 
Mr C disputed Havens findings on this issue and raised it as part of his complaint. I 
understand, however, that Mr C has now obtained a refund for these privately-paid-for 
repairs. Since that issue is now resolved, I wont be looking at it in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
The first issue Ive looked at is whether Haven has fairly valued Mr Cs van. I dont think it
has.
Mr Cs van insurance policy says if Haven decides his van is beyond economic repair, it will
give Mr C a settlement of the vans market value up to the limit of coverage after deducting
his policy excess. The policy says the market value of Mr Cs van is the cost of replacing it
with one of a similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage
and condition of his van. To determine the market value, Haven says it typically requests the
advice of an engineer and refers to guides and any other relevant sources.
Haven valued Mr Cs van at £17,095 and this is what it has paid him (minus his policy
excess of £1,050). Havens offer was based on its assessors valuation of Mr Cs van. Thisvaluation also mirrors a valuation the investigator who looked at Mr Cs complaint got from
one of the motor trade guides and its slightly higher than the valuation she got from another
of the motor trade guides.
But Mr C has always said his van was a limited-edition anniversary model and was in
impeccable condition. Hes strongly of the view that Haven didnt take this into consideration
when it valued the van.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr Cs van was a limited-edition anniversary model.
Because of this, rather than relying on the guides our investigator got, I asked one of the
motor trade guides to give us a bespoke valuation for the van. Ive attached a copy of its
valuation to this provisional decision. The retail valuation it gives for Mr Cs van based on a
mileage of 100,000 miles is £20,750 and based on a mileage of 150,000 miles is £17,095.
The mileage on Mr Cs van was just over 132,000 miles.
Valuing a vehicle isnt an exact science. What I have to decide is what I think is a fair and
reasonable value for Haven to place on Mr Cs van. On the basis of the bespoke valuation
we have, I think a fair and reasonable valuation for Mr Cs van is £18,557. Ive reached this
figure by calculating the difference between the two valuations of £20,750 and £17,095 
that is £3,655  and by deducting three fifths of that sum (£2,193) from the higher of the two
valuations. Ive done this because I think it most closely represents, on a proportionate
basis, the likely value of Mr Cs van, given its mileage of just over 132,000. So, unless I see
any further evidence to make me think I should change my mind on this, I intend to direct
Haven to settle Mr Cs fault claim for £18,557 (plus interest but minus his policy excess of
£1,050) rather than £17,095.
Turning next to the second issue in this complaint, which is Mr Cs overall claims experience
with Haven, Mr C has described the impact it has had on him as follows:
I must emphasise I have nearly had to quit my current job due to stress; I have been
admitted to hospital from a suspected heart attack and had to take time of (sic) work, my
home relationships have been strained and our finances have been pushed to breaking
point, I have very nearly lost my vehicle due to the missed finance payments, suicide was
optional, this process has very nearly broken me as a human being, two months into this
claim I lost my mother suddenly and had to prioritise this failed claim over matters for my
mother, for this no amount of money will ever compensate me.
From Mr Cs case file, its clear hes experienced considerable distress, upset and worry as a
result of Havens handling of his claims, as well as significant inconvenience and disruption
that has needed a lot of extra effort to sort out over a number of months. 
Haven has accepted its approved repairers communications with Mr C were poor. And the
approved repairer network has also said the poor repair work carried out by its approved
repairer wasnt acceptable. For these failings, as Ive said, Mr C has already been paid £450.
But I dont think this amount of money fairly and reasonably compensates Mr C for the
impact Havens failings have had on him. He describes hundreds of phone calls, as well as a
number of personal visits to the approved repairer to see how the repairs were progressing
because his calls went unanswered. 
After the repairs for the fault claim had been completed, it mustve been distressing for Mr C
to find so many faults with them. And it then mustve been equally distressing and also
frustrating for Mr C to find out that Havens assessor was subsequently unable to give a
repair estimate. From what Mr C describes, there was more distress and frustration when,
after going to the (extensive) trouble of getting his own quote, that quote was then disputed
by Haven and its assessor. And, finally, there was the further distress Mr C felt at thesettlement Haven offered him when it said his car was a total loss (and which, for the
reasons Ive given above, I dont think was fair and reasonable).
Having considered all of this, I intend to direct Haven to pay Mr C an additional £300 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claims has caused him.
As Ive said, Haven has accepted my provisional decision. Mr C has responded with reasons 
why he thinks the valuation should be increased. He says before the storm caused damage 
to his van, hed had three offers of between £24,450 and £26,550 for it. He says even after 
the storm damage, buyers were offering him upwards of £19,000. Mr C says his van was in 
above-average condition, religiously maintained and serviced with original manufacturers 
parts at named service centres. Hes asked me to increase the valuation to a minimum of 
£22,500, which is midway between the current valuation and his expectations of a resale 
value for his van of about £25,000.
I dont doubt Mr Cs van was in impeccable condition nor do I doubt he was given the offers 
he says he was. But we have a bespoke valuation from one of the motor trade guides, from 
which Ive calculated a valuation. Although, as Ive said, vehicle valuation isnt an exact 
science, we attach some weight to these valuations. So Id need to see persuasive evidence 
to depart from it. Mr Cs testimony about the offers he got  which may or may not have 
come to fruition  isnt enough to persuade me it would be fair and reasonable to do so here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 23 October 2023 (which 
now form part of this final decision), I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Haven
Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Cs fault claim based on a valuation of £18,577 rather than £17,095 (minus
Mr Cs policy excess, which I understand is £1,050). I think this means Haven
Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr C an outstanding balance of £1,482 in 
settlement of his claim. Haven Insurance Company Limited must also pay interest on 
this outstanding balance at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date on which 
Haven Insurance Company Limited paid Mr C its initial settlement amount to the date 
of payment.
Pay Mr C a further £300 (on top of the £450 it has already paid him) in compensation
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman