DRN-3772923
The complaint
Mr E has complained about his let property insurer Zurich Insurance PLC, he believes it 
delayed completing work at his property necessary due to water damage.
What happened
In 2020 Mr Es property was damaged and became the subject of two repair claims. During 
the course of those claims he had cause to complain and an Investigator at the Financial 
Ombudsman Service previously issued her view on what had happened up until 
September 2021. Unfortunately Mr Es concerns continued and he made a further complaint 
regarding what happened after the period that had previously been considered.
In September 2021 Zurich was looking to repair Mr Es flat  but repairs would make it 
uninhabitable so the tenants needed to move into alternative accommodation. Zurich, via its 
accommodation agents, and the tenants tried to find something suitable but that wasnt 
possible. The tenants were unhappy continuing to live in the damaged property and they 
stopped paying Mr E rent. They then left the property in February 2022. 
With the property now vacant, repairs could begin. But Mr E was worried about the arrears 
the tenants had left and that he was losing rent with the property now being empty. Zurich 
wasnt minded to cover the arrears but agreed to paying lost rent under the policy. However, 
Mr E was also concerned that he was now having to pay council tax, and sometimes the rent 
payments only came to him after hed had to pay the mortgage on the property. He also felt 
the repairs were taking too long  that they were not being managed or progressed properly 
by Zurich  and that it wasnt keeping him updated. Zurich told Mr E that it was considering 
his concerns, and in respect of the late rent payments it did provide an answer to him. In that 
respect Zurich apologised and said it had arranged to make the payments at a different time 
moving forwards so Mr E would have them before he had to make his mortgage payment. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She confirmed she would only be focusing on 
what had happened since September 2021. And she looked at activity up until the end of 
July 2022. She noted that by the end of July 2022, Zurich was still attempting to dry the 
property. But she looked at why that was and, in the circumstances, felt Zurich had not 
caused any avoidable delays in the repairs in the relevant period. She felt it hadnt 
communicated well with Mr E though, and that its delayed payments of lost rent had caused 
Mr E additional worry given his finances. So she said it should pay Mr E £250 compensation, 
provide him with regular updates going forwards and ensure that no delays occur in making 
loss of rent payments. Regarding the rent arrears and council tax though, she didnt think 
Zurich should reasonably have to pay Mr E anything. 
Mr E said that the tenants had given up, stopped paying rent and moved out because 
conditions in the house had been getting worse. So, given the claim delays and what he saw 
as Zurichs failure to re-house the tenants, he felt it was responsible for the rent arrears and 
his having to pay council tax. Our Investigator reviewed further evidence from both parties. 
But she wasnt minded to change her view on the complaint and explained her reasons for 
that to both parties. In response to another point Mr E had made, our Investigator explained 
that we are not the industry regulator and it is not part of our role to fine or punish 
businesses. Mr E asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Mr E. And I know that in response to his 
initial complaint about delays up until 22 September 2021, Zurich paid him £700 
compensation. So whilst I havent looked, and cant as part of this decision, at what 
happened then, it is clear to me that Mr E, with the claim already having been too far 
prolonged, was in a worried and frustrated state as of September 2021. But I do think that, 
as of then and moving forward, Zurich was acting pro-actively to progress the claim, 
including being flexible about finding the tenants somewhere to live so that the reinstatement 
work could begin. It didnt answer the complaint Mr E made though and it was the end of 
July 2022 when, following communication with our Investigator, Zurich accepted that a 
complaint about progress of the claim, the rent arrears, council tax, lost rent payment and 
lack of communication now needed to be considered by us. On 1 August 2022 it provided us 
with its file and detail about what had occurred to that point. Im satisfied then this complaint 
and decision can reasonably take into account what happened, regarding the above 
aspects, between 22 September 2021 and the end of July 2022. 
In September 2021 the property was wet, it needed stripping and drying before work to 
reinstate it could be undertaken. The condition of the property meant that it was clearly 
uncomfortable for the tenants living there. But the property did have all the basic facilities still 
working  meaning the family could cook and wash, with there also being electricity, heating 
and hot water. Nevertheless, Zurich recognised that it was important to re-house the tenants 
and Im satisfied that it began taking reasonable action to do so. And I think its reasonable 
that the strip-out work was put on hold until the tenants were re-homed.
Unfortunately, it seems that finding somewhere for the tenants to live was problematic. Ive 
seen detail both from Zurichs accommodation agents, as well as from Mr Es former 
tenants. I know the tenants felt Zurichs agents werent doing enough or finding suitable 
properties. But there were clearly a lot of properties discussed and I can see that Zurichs 
agents did try to accommodate the tenants needs in respect of location, property size and 
pets. And that when it became obvious that could not be done for the expected period of 
repairs, Zurich looked at longer term lets, offered to cover the cost of kennelling for the pets, 
and agreed to consider properties found by the tenants. In October 2022, with even the 
extended search criteria not providing a viable like-for-like match for the let property, the 
tenants proposed to Zurich that it look to cover the cost of a flat in a nearby apartment 
complex. A proposal Zurich agreed to, and the tenants chose a two-bed flat, reserving it and 
arranging a move-in date. But the tenants then found that a three-bed apartment was 
available after all and told Zurich that would be more suitable for them. Zurichs agents then 
negotiated with the landlords agent and Zurich agreed to pay rent up front to the landlord, 
over an extended period, as well as covering the deposit the tenants would usually be liable 
for. It was thought that would secure the property for the tenants. However, the tenants had 
CCJs and otherwise a poor credit rating and even with the rent being paid upfront by Zurich, 
the landlord wasnt prepared to let his property to Mr Es tenants. I think Zurich acted 
reasonably to find appropriate alternative accommodation for Mr Es tenants. I dont think 
I could fairly expect it to have done anything more, or blame it for the fact that nothing 
agreeable was found.
Obviously, in the period prior to September 2021, the tenants had not left. They left in the 
period I am considering but Mr E feels that, at least in part, is due to earlier delays. But Im not convinced that prior delays being avoided would have kept the tenants in the property 
beyond February 2022. Quite simply it seems to me that the difficulties with finding 
somewhere for the tenants to live would, I think have occurred at any time during the claim.  
And the knock-on effect of the property deteriorating in the meantime would always have 
occurred  in the same way and at the same rate as it did anyway because the deterioration 
could not be forestalled with the tenants in situ. So the only thing that I think might have 
changed, if the accommodation search had started earlier, is that the tenants might have left 
earlier  that is if they had become too frustrated with the prolonged accommodation search. 
But if the condition of the property was the overriding factor that caused them to stop paying 
rent and then leave in February 2022  I think that would always have happened just the 
same. 
Rent arrears are not covered by Mr Es policy with Zurich. So I cant reasonably require 
Zurich to cover this loss for Mr E as part of the claim. And Im satisfied that Zurich acted 
fairly and reasonably to try and re-house the tenants. So I also cant reasonably say Zurich 
must compensate Mr E for this loss because there was no failure on its part. With regret for 
the disappointment I know this will cause Mr E, Im not going to require Zurich to reimburse 
his rent arrears.
Similarly council tax is not covered by Mr Es policy. The policy covers money, such as rent, 
payable to him by the tenants. The tenants would normally pay the council tax direct to the 
council. So the council tax is not something the tenants would pay to him. And Mr E is 
paying the council tax now because the tenants have left, with my findings above explaining 
that I dont think any failure by Zurich caused them to leave. As such I cant fairly and 
reasonably require Zurich to reimburse Mr E the council tax he became liable for, after his 
tenants left in February 2022, for his damaged and empty property. I am aware though that 
councils will sometimes, for a certain period, waive charges for a property that is empty and 
being repaired. Mr E may like to investigate this possibility with his local council.
Of course, once the tenants had left, Zurich could begin to strip and dry the property so it 
could be reinstated. And, once reinstated, it could be re-let, which would mean Mr E would 
no longer be liable for paying council tax. Therefore, if, after February 2022, and until the 
end of the period I am considering here (the end of July 2022), I felt Zurich had delayed the 
claim such that the work should have been completed and the property re-let earlier, I might 
find it reasonable to say it should compensate Mr E for council tax he shouldnt have paid 
because the property should have been re-let.
The reports from Zurichs loss adjusters show that there was significant damage to the 
property from more than one water source. And, as I mentioned above, that extensive 
strip-out work, so that the property could dry, would be required. As such the full 
reinstatement programme was always going to take a little while to complete. It also bears 
mention here that in any claim like this, exactly how long all the repairs will take may vary 
and is often highly dependent upon how the property is constructed as well as how the 
materials used in its construction respond to drying. Generally, an insurer, having conducted 
a reasonably thorough investigation of the property during the initial phases of the claim, will 
have a fair idea of what will be needed to best progress the drying, and how long that should 
take. But there are occasions where the unexpected presence of non-standard materials are 
not identified and ultimately affect the course of the drying. That is what happened here.
Once the tenants left, Zurich assessed the property and completed some significant strip-out 
work. But it was initially felt that there was no need to strip plaster from a party wall. 
However, a report by the loss adjusters in May 2022, shows that, by this point, it had 
become apparent that the party wall wasnt drying and options for how this could be resolved 
were being considered. Including taking the plaster off of the wall. However, it was 
non-standard plaster, more like external render. With the paint finish it was non-porous, meaning water had been trapped within/behind it, and removing it would be difficult. There 
was clearly a concern that further damage could be done. I accept that this problem had not 
been reasonably foreseeable to Zurich and its agents, and that the best way of resolving it 
required careful consideration. It was ultimately felt that removing the paint, making the 
plaster/render porous and targeting drying equipment on it, would be the best way forwards. 
That was authorised, with the paint having been removed and the drying started within a few 
weeks. And it seems that, by the end of July 2022, moisture levels had started to reduce. On 
balance, given the situation as a whole, I think that was a fair and reasonable decision for 
Zurich to make. And my view in this respect also leads me to conclude that whilst the 
property had not finished drying by the end of July 2022, that was not because of any failure 
or avoidable delay caused by Zurich in handling the claim repairs. 
I know that Mr E feels that between February 2022 and July 2022, Zurich did not visit the 
property enough or do enough to move the claim on. But Im satisfied it stripped it 
reasonably to start drying it, monitored that sufficiently and acted appropriately when a 
problem with the party wall was found. I dont think Zurich failed Mr E in progressing the 
property repair during this period.
However, whilst I think Zurich was progressing things reasonably, I think it sometimes 
overlooked updating Mr E. Which, in the circumstances was understandably quite frustrating 
for him. Zurich should have ensured, particularly in the circumstances of this already 
prolonged claim, to avoid causing Mr E further upset and managing its communications 
better would certainly have done that. And some of the lack of communication occurred 
when Mr E was trying to find out why Zurich had not made rent payments. I can see that 
given his financial situation, the late payments along with the poor communication, caused 
him a fair degree of worry. Im pleased to note that Zurich did resolve this aspect quite 
quickly though, apologising for what had happened and acting to ensure it would make 
payments at a more suitable time in the future. But for the distress and inconvenience Mr E 
was caused by Zurichs lack of communication and its late payments, I think it should fairly 
and reasonably pay Mr E £250 compensation, ensure regular updates are provided as the 
claim progresses and avoid delaying payments under the claim for loss of rent.  
Putting things right
I require Zurich to pay Mr E £250 compensation. It should also ensure to update him 
regularly and avoid delaying payments under the policy for loss of rent.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman