DRN-3847312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain National House Building Council unfairly declined their building 
warranty claim.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs B noticed a problem with a tiled floor in their new build home. They 
claimed on their NHBC building warranty. They said there had been a failure to seal a floor 
screed. This had resulted in some tiles rising, with others sounding hollow when tapped. But 
NHBC declined the claim, saying the damage wasnt covered by the policy terms.  
Mr and Mrs B complained about the decision. In April 2021 NHBC responded. It said the 
criteria for a valid claim hadnt been met. But it apologised for poor customer service. This 
included not responding to emails within reasonable time. It offered £350 to recognise the 
inconvenience involved. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with that outcome so came to this service. To resolve their 
complaint they would like NHBC to accept the claim and repair the floor.  In November 2022 
our investigator considered the complaint. She felt NHBC had acted in line with the policy 
terms when declining the claim. She considered £350 to be a fair level of compensation for 
the poor customer service. So she didnt recommend NHBC do anything differently. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require 
NHBC to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim or to do anything differently. The reasons given form part 
of this final decision, so Ive copied them in below. I invited the parties to provide anything 
they would like me to consider before issuing a final decision. NHBC didnt send anything. 
Mr and Mrs B provided a detailed response.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
require NHBC to pay the claim or do anything differently. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy covers: 
if there is physical damage to your home because the builder failed to build the 
following parts of your home to meet the NHBC requirements.
Staircases, floor decking and screed to the inside of the main structure, if 
they fail to support normal loads.
So for any physical damage to be covered the policy requires the screed to not have 
been built to NHBC standards and for it (the screed) to fail to support normal loads. 
NHBC says theres no evidence of structural deterioration to the mortar screed  and 
therefore the lack of sealant to a screed does not meet the required criteria for a 
claim to be accepted.  
Mr and Mrs B say a failure in the final process to the screed allowed moisture from 
below to find its way to the underside of the tiles/adhesive causing a breaking of 
bond between tile and adhesive. They describe this as a failure of under structure. I 
accept there may be a problem with the bond between tiles and screed. However, Im 
not persuaded, as required by the policy, that the screed is failing to support normal 
loads. 
Whilst its possible theres an issue with the construction these types of warranties 
arent deigned to cover everything that may go wrong with a new build. Unfortunately 
for Mr and Mrs B NHBCs decision, that the damage to theirs, isnt covered by their 
policy is in line with the terms and isnt unfair or unreasonable. 
I also agree the compensation already paid by NHBC is enough to recognise the 
impact on Mr and Mrs B of any poor customer service during the claim. So Im not 
going to require it to do anything differently.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point Mr and Mrs B 
made in response to the provisional decision. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the complaint. In addition some comments, like NHBCs involvement with 
building regulations inspections, is outside the remit of this service. But I would like to 
reassure both that I have considered everything they provided.
As I explained in my provisional decision for physical damage to be covered by the policy it 
must result from the screed not being built to NHBC standards - and for it the screed to fail to 
support normal loads. I said I wasnt persuaded the screed was failing to support normal 
loads. 
Mr and Mrs B say its clear the screed has failed this test. They explain screed loads (and 
floors generally in any residential building) will in practice include floor coverings (tiling etc), 
furniture, fittings and use by the residents and visitors. They say these are the normal loads 
for a hallway floor. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs latest comments, their photos and the report from their 
contractor. But as Ive ready said I accept there may be a problem with the bond between 
tiles and screed. And some may have become detached. However, Im havent been 
persuaded, by what Ive seen, that the screed itself is failing to support normal loads. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require National House Building Council to pay 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim or to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 Daniel Martin
Ombudsman