DRN-3098133
The complaint
  Mr B has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) acted irresponsibly when it
accepted him as guarantor for a loan.
What happened
  Mr B entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £7,500 loan that
TFS Loans provided to the borrower, in September 2015. The loan was due to be repaid in 
monthly instalments of around £279 over 60 months. From what Ive seen, the total amount 
to be repaid over the original loan term was around £16,755 including interest. 
Mr B says he couldnt afford to act as the loan guarantor and that TFS Loans should have
realised this, if it had carried out proper checks at the time. He also said he was forced into 
being a guarantor by the borrower. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
TFS has provided some details about the checks it carried out at the time. From this, I can 
see that it asked Mr B for information about his income and it verified this as £1216.36. It 
says it also took into consideration a mortgage repayment of £565 that it concluded Mr B 
was responsible for repaying half of (£282.50). It also made note of another loan repayment 
(£200). It then reduced the remaining disposable income by half that it says accounted for 
any other eventualities. it also says it acquired a credit report and had a months worth of Mr 
Bs bank statements to hand. TFS Loans says that sufficient checks were carried out and 
that Mr B could afford to guarantee the loan based on this.
The assessment TFS Loans made on Mr Bs finances at the time it granted the loan,
seems to suggest he could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do so. 
But like our investigator, I dont think it did enough to verify Mr Bs expenditure and I think it 
should have gone further with this taking into consideration the size of the loan in relation to 
Mr Bs proposed monthly income and the term. The loan was due to be repaid over 5 years 
and I think TFS Loans should have done more based on what it had in front of it, to ensure 
that Mr B could sustainably meet the instalments if called upon. Overall, I cannot fairly say 
that I think the checks TFS Loans carried out were reasonable or proportionate.
Mr B has provided us with additional copies bank statements from around the time of the 
lending decision. So, I can determine what better checks might have shown TFS Loans at
that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of
course, different checks might show different things. But I think if TFS Loans had carried out 
what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more 
about Mr Bs financial position.
TFS Loans in its assessment, had recorded down that Mr B was responsible for half of the 
mortgage repayment of £565. But within the statement that it did have, it would have seen 
that Mr B had made the full payment of this amount. If it had carried out further checks and 
gathered more information about this, it would have seen that Mr B has making a full 
mortgage repayment of £565 on a monthly basis. I think it is more likely than not, based on 
what I have seen, that Mr B was making this full mortgage payment as he has recently 
suggested to our service.
In addition, I can see that TFS loans recorded down a loan repayment of £200 for credit with 
another loan provider. When this amount is added to the mortgage repayment as well as the 
TFS loan repayment and the total amount is taken away from the monthly income amount 
that TFS verified, it would have left Mr B with around £170 in disposable income. And this is 
before taking into consideration any other essential expenditure that Mr B would have had at 
that time.
I have gone through the statements provided by Mr B and can see there is regular essential 
monthly expenditure that adds up to more than the disposable income he would have had 
left after I have taken into consideration the mortgage and loan repayments. In short, TFS 
Loans would have uncovered that Mr B wouldnt have been able to afford the loan 
repayment in a sustainable way.  
TFS Loans points to income payments that it has seen on the bank statement it did gather 
and suggests Mr B had other sources of income to rely on. I have looked at this, but Ive not 
seen enough to conclude that there were any regular monthly amounts that TFS Loans 
should have taken into consideration at the time it agreed to lend.  
I think if TFS Loans had carried out proportionate checks and seen the information that is on 
Mr Bs bank statements, it ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not appropriate to 
accept Mr B as loan guarantor on this loan.
Finally, TFS loans says that a judge did not believe Mr B should not be accepted as a 
guarantor and did agree with its application for a charge on land. I have looked into this and 
also requested from both parties a copy of the county court judgement. Both have provided 
further details about this. I can see that the judge made a ruling on the non-payment of the 
loan and not on whether TFS loans acted irresponsibly when it granted it. There was also no 
judgement made on whether it carried out proportionate checks or made a fair lending 
decision. or whether Mr B gave consent. These being the overarching questions that I have 
considered within my decision.   
I currently think TFS Loans acted unfairly when it accepted Mr B as guarantor so TFS Loans 
must now put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr B responded and said he agrees with the provisional 
decision. TFS Loans responded and said:
The mortgage was a joint one and Mr B was only required to pay half of it. This 
would have allowed him a higher disposable income.
The bank statements show that he makes full payments to the mortgage but also 
that he receives other credit.
TFS did not use an amount per month of income that Mr B used from additional 
rental income. Mr B would have had enough money to make repayments 
sustainably.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  TFS Loans has not introduced any new arguments or provided any further evidence 
regarding this complaint. It has instead summarised some of its arguments that it made 
before I issued my provisional decision. So, I can only reiterate what I have already said.
I have concluded that TFS did not carry out proportionate checks. So, because of this, I 
have looked at what TFS would have seen if it had done so. I looked through bank 
statements that were supplied by Mr B and could see that he was making a full payment for 
his mortgage. This is something Mr B told our service he was doing at the time of the loan 
application with TFS Loans and the entries on his bank statements support this. If TFS 
Loans had carried out proportionate checks, I think its more likely than not it would have 
uncovered this. 
TFS Loans again points to other income that Mr B received at the time, but it hasnt 
provided any further evidence about this. So again, I cant safely conclude that Mr B was in 
receipt of any regular monthly amounts of income that TFS Loans should have taken into 
consideration when it agreed to lend. 
 
So, I conclude based on my findings here and within my provisional decision, I think TFS 
Loans acted unfairly when it accepted Mr B as a guarantor and it now needs to put things 
right. 
Putting things right
  Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now
if that wrong hadnt taken place. In this case, this means TFS Loans putting Mr B in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor 
on this loan.
So, TFS Loans should put things right by:
a) Releasing Mr B from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement
and then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Mr B as guarantor. TFS Loans must add 8%* simple
interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Mr B paid them to the date the
refund is paid to him.
c) Requesting the county court judgment be set aside for Mr B, and by doing so removing 
the charge notice on his property.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as described above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman