DRN-2621083
The complaint
Mr L complains that a problem on Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds (trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing  Ill refer hereafter to IWeb for clarity) trading platform meant he was unable to sell 
his shares when he wanted to. And because there was no notification that there was a 
problem, and his account showed the sale was in progress, he only found out the sale hadnt 
gone through too late. This caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr L had a share-dealing account with IWeb. On 5 June 2020 he tried to sell shares in a 
company Ill call Company A. It appears that at the time he was unable to obtain a live 
quote from the platform, so he placed a limit order to sell 500 shares when the share price 
reached 690p or higher. As the price was already trading above this level, Mr L immediately 
saw the status of the trade move to executing. 
Unfortunately for Mr L, IWebs system had an issue on that day and in particular during the 
timeframe in which he tried to trade. This meant that online orders were not being executed, 
and trades could only be placed via telephone. There was no notification to that effect on the 
website. 
By the time Mr L saw that the trades hadnt been executed, the market was closed for the 
weekend. He placed another limit order for the following Monday  but by then Company As 
share price had dropped, and so he proceeded to sell his shares manually. Mr L calculated 
his loss at about £100  that being the difference between the price of the shares on the 
Friday and Monday. 
Mr L complained. He spoke to someone from IWeb who explained to him the issue that its 
platform had experienced on the Friday. He was told that IWeb wouldnt usually look to 
compensate for hypothetical loss  but in his case there was evidence that he had placed 
an instruction to sell. However, IWeb considered the reasons why the trade hadnt been 
executed were beyond its control, and therefore didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the 
contractual relationship it had with Mr L specifically excluded liability for this type of situation. 
So Mr L referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. He acknowledged that the customer 
agreement said, in clause 18.26:
We will not be liable for any failure to execute a Tradeplan order for technical or operational 
reasons (including allowing for market stabilisation, and auction periods), except where this 
is caused by our negligence. 
But he didnt think it was fair for Mr L to be out of pocket. In short, the investigator 
considered that IWeb ought to have alerted Mr L to the issue it was experiencing at the time 
on its platform. It was clear that Mr L was intending to trade  and if he had known that he 
needed to call and trade over the phone, thats what he wouldve done. Instead, there was 
no notification that IWeb was experiencing an issue  and when he placed the limit order, it 
showed that it was executing. In other words, Mr L was given the impression that IWeb was 
executing his trade, and he therefore didnt think there was an error that was going to 
prevent that from happening. The investigator considered the fact that Mr L sold the shares 
as soon as he could after becoming aware of the error, thereby mitigating his losses. As a 
result, he recommended IWeb pay Mr L £100. 
IWeb didnt agree. It refuted the accusation by the investigator that it wasnt acting in its 
clients best interests. And it said that it was hugely reliant on technology and so we act to 
limit our liability in that regard in our legal agreement with the customer and have done so. It 
said that if this service now believed such agreements werent legally binding then it would 
seek legal advice on the matter. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im not clear what accusation IWeb is referring to in relation to what the investigator has 
said about IWebs actions. In my view, the investigator has simply pointed out that whilst he 
took into account the relevant terms of the account, IWeb also had other obligations in 
relation to Mr L  these included ensuring that it acted in Mr Ls best interests at all times. 
In any event, I dont agree that the only relevant term is section 18.26  nor that my decision 
on this matter should be confined to this one particular term. I need to take all the relevant 
terms into account, as well as all the relevant circumstances of the case, in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable. And IWeb knows this. 
So for clarity, Ill first set out the terms that I consider relevant to this complaint. And Ill then 
explain why, in my view, IWeb ought to compensate Mr L for the financial loss he suffered. 
The first issue that Ive taken into account is that IWebs systems were clearly experiencing 
an issue on the day in question  and certainly during the time Mr L was trying to trade. Both 
in the telephone call Mr L had with IWeb on the following Monday, and its internal call 
between case-handlers, IWeb accepted that the issue it was experiencing affected its online 
trading on that day. In the call the following Monday, Mr L was clearly told that trades on the 
Friday needed to be carried out using IWebs telephone dealing service as a result of these 
issues. The fact that IWeb was experiencing an issue executing online trades at the relevant 
time does not appear to be in dispute. 
Section 4.1 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account say that Mr L would be able to use 
the telephone service to deal when the online service is not available. But section 6.1 
specifically limits Mr Ls ability use the telephone service:
Except as otherwise set out in this agreement, you can access your account and use the 
service through our online service. The telephone service will only be available if the online 
service cannot be used and/or for the reasons outlined in conditions 6.8, 6.21, 7.14 and 8.3. 
(my emphasis)
None of those conditions applied. So its clear to me that any reading of these terms would 
suggest that, unless notified or alerted to the contrary, a customer ought to be using IWebs 
online facility at all times. Mr L has explained that when he couldnt obtain a quote for the order he wanted to place to 
sell Company As shares, he tried to place a limit order  otherwise referred to as a 
TradePlan order. This was the next available online option. All he knew at this point is that 
he was unable to obtain live quotes in order to sell Company As shares. But he didnt know 
that placing a TradePlan order wouldnt work either  and Ive been given no evidence from 
IWeb that he ought to have known the TradePlan order wouldnt work before he created it.
As Mr L had placed, for a fee, a TradePlan order, section 18 of the terms also applied. 
Section 18.14 says:
A TradePlan order may be amended or cancelled by you, as long as the order has not been 
carried out or is not in the process of being executed. (my emphasis)
This term tells Mr L that if his TradePlan order is in the process of being executed, he cannot 
do anything about it. Mr L has, understandably, been unable to provide screenshots to 
demonstrate what he saw. But his description of what he saw has been consistent and 
persuasive. He has said that once he placed the TradePlan order, it immediately moved to 
executing, because the price he specified in the order was below the price Company As 
shares were already trading at. In my view, when Mr L saw this, he had no reason to believe 
that the order wouldnt be executed. And because it was in the process of being executed, 
he also knew that he couldnt change it or cancel it. He needed to wait for the deal to go 
through  which is what he did. 
In considering what happened to this TradePlan order, Ive also considered sections 18.21 
and 18.22. They say:
18.21: It is your responsibility to verify whether a TradePlan order has been carried out and, 
if it has not, whether you require a new order to be placed. 
18.22: When we accept your TradePlan order, we will use all reasonable endeavours to 
execute that order and will generally carry out all orders in relation to that investment at the 
relevant price in order by reference to the time we received those orders. 
In the end, the TradePlan order didnt go through, because it was affected by the same 
issues which were causing other online orders not to be executed. But it seems to me that 
given what Mr L was being told by the platform at the time, there was no reason for him to 
consider any issues were affecting IWebs online facility. He understood his TradePlan 
orders to be in the process of being executed  and I consider it was reasonable for him to 
have thought that was happening. He saw the price of Company As shares trade at a higher 
level than the limit order he set, and it was therefore logical for that order to immediately 
show that it was executing. There was no external issue affecting Company As shares, or 
the wider stock market, such that he might reasonably conclude IWeb was experiencing 
problems executing deals. 
Its clear to me that whilst IWeb may not have been directly responsible for the issues it was 
experiencing on that particular day, it did nothing to alert or protect Mr L from the entirely 
foreseeable possibility that financial loss might occur as a result. Im satisfied that Mr L tried 
at all times to keep to the agreement and to ensure he acted reasonably in mitigating his 
losses and attempting to use the online facility that he thought was available. 
And Im persuaded that if at any point IWeb had alerted him, either through an automated 
error or through a notification on its website, that online trades were not being honoured, he 
wouldve traded over the telephone. Im satisfied that, had he done so, he wouldve avoided 
the loss he is now claiming. When looking at all these circumstances, Im persuaded it would be entirely unfair to simply focus on IWebs exclusion of liability and ignore everything else. 
Putting things right
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I consider it fair and reasonable that IWeb 
compensate Mr L for the losses he experienced. Mr L has quantified his loss at £100  and 
so that is what I award
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as 
IWeb Share Dealing) must pay Mr L £100 within 28 days of when we tell he has accepted 
this decision. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman