DRN-3588139
The complaint
Mr D complains, on behalf of his business, that American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) unfairly declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D runs a business repairing bicycles and he holds an insurance policy with AIG to cover 
him for certain risks that may arise as a result of his work. 
In 2018, Mr D had been working on a customers bike and had clamped the frame to a stand 
in order to fit components to it. Unfortunately, the stand caused damage to the bikes frame, 
which Mr D was liable for. So he made a claim under the public liability section of his 
insurance policy. 
AIG declined the claim. It said Mr D wasnt covered for items damaged while in his custody 
or while repairs were being undertaken.
In 2021, having reviewed his policy again, Mr D didnt think his claim had been declined 
correctly. So he raised a complaint. 
At this time, AIG said Mr D was covered for damage occurring to property he was working 
on. But that as he was working on the components at the time of the damage, rather than 
the frame itself, it didnt think Mr D had made a valid claim under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed been working on the bike as a whole, including the frame. 
He raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied Mr D was assembling components 
to the frame and working on the bike as a whole when the damage occurred. So she didnt 
think AIG had applied the policy terms correctly or fairly in these circumstances. 
She said AIG shouldve covered this claim when it was raised in 2018, and she asked it to 
pay the amount Mr D had to pay his customer  which was £1,000  plus 8% interest and 
£100 compensation. She said it would be fair for AIG to deduct the policy excess of £500.
AIG didnt accept our investigators recommendations, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds business protection insurance policy say:
Public & Product Liability
What we cover you for all amounts (including legal costs) you become legally liable to pay 
as damages or compensation arising from an occurrence during the period of insurance in 
the territory in connection with the business which results indamage.
The policy defines damage as physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to 
tangible property. 
The policy goes on to provide exclusions applicable to the Public & Products Liability 
section. It says:
In addition to the General Exclusions we will not cover under this Sectiondamage to 
property in your custody or control other than property on which you have been working 
(but including damage arising on a different part of the same property as a result of the work 
undertaken).
This means, contradictory to what AIG said in its initial claim rejection, Mr D is covered for 
property damaged in his custody if he was working on it.
What AIG now seek to rely on is the exclusion extension of damage arising on a different 
part of the same property as a result of the work undertaken. It says Mr D was working on 
the components and the damage occurred to the frame as a result of the work undertaken. 
But I dont agree. Ill explain why.
If, for example, Mr D had put the bike frame on a stand solely to access different 
components, and those components were removed and worked on separately and away 
from the stand, I could understand why AIG might have applied the above exclusion. This is 
because the frame wasnt being actively worked on and it was only clamped to the stand to 
allow for easy access to the parts Mr D was working on. 
However, from my understanding of the claim, Mr D was fitting components to the frame in 
order to assemble the bike. This couldnt be done without the frame itself, which Mr D 
wouldve been actively working on in order to complete the task hed been hired to do. As 
such, Im satisfied he was working on the frame when the damage occurred.
For these reasons, I dont think the policy exclusion above applies here. So it follows that I 
dont consider AIGs decision to decline the claim to be correct or fair. 
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect it to put the customer 
back in the situation they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. 
In this case, Im satisfied that if AIG had dealt with Mr Ds claim correctly back in 2018, it 
wouldve accepted it. This would have resulted in Mr Ds customer being paid the £1,000 
theyd claimed, minus the policy excess of £500.
As such, Im directing AIG to do that now. And to make up for the time Mr D has been 
without this money, AIG should pay 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made 
until the date its settled. 
To compensate Mr D for the inconvenience hes been subjected to as a result of having to 
deal with this customers claim himself without the support of his policy, Im directing AIG to 
pay £100.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing 
American International Group UK Limited to:
Pay Mr D the claim value of £1,000 minus the policy excess, plus 8% simple interest* 
per annum from the date the claim was originally made in 2018 until the date its 
settled.
pay Mr D £100 compensation.
*If AIG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman