DRN-3576521
The complaint
Ms S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2016, Ms S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In  the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Ms Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act. The 
CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Ms S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding, in that it would pay for itself and the cost of the 
loan within the loan term; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Ms S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It referred to a judgement of the High 
Court1 in which a claim about solar panels had been upheld, and said that this case should 
be resolved in the same way. It added that the system will take 25 years to pay for itself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
1 Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Ltd [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm).
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Ms S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
I have looked at the Hodgson v Creation case, but I do not think it assists me. The solar 
panels in that case had been sold by a different supplier (MyPlanet Ltd), and so the evidence 
in that case is quite different to this case. In particular, the evidence of the complainants in 
the High Court case was not significantly contradicted by evidence from the supplier (which 
had ceased trading), so it is not surprising that the judge accepted their evidence. In this 
case, as I will set out below, the evidence of Ms S is contradicted by Ps quote.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms S says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Ms Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Ms S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Ms Ss 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
FIT payments and savings
Ms S has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Ms Ss recollections of her meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £127.28, which results in an average monthly income of just over £10. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £93.59. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Ms S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £221.68 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Ms S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £441.12. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Ms S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.59. For each year of the 15 year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first 12 years of the loan, meaning that the system would take that 
long to begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Ms S wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Ms Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Ms S, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Ms S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 13 years for the 
overall benefits that Ms S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 13-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year 13 the overall benefits that Ms S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,859.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £16,946, 
would be reached by the end of year 19 (although that amount is not shown in the quote but 
only in the loan agreement).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 13 years, and for the loan in about 19 years, as supported by the graphic and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 25 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Ms S.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 1,898 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Ms Ss FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,229 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by P at the point of sale 
(117%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Ms S has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Ms S hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms S entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman