DRN-1487173
 
The complaint
Mr K says CASH ON THE GO LIMITED (trading as Peachy.co.uk) failed to correctly assess 
the sustainability and affordability of his payday loan application.
What happened
Mr K took one payday loan from Peachy in May 2019. The loan of £300 was repayable over 
six monthly instalments ranging between £41.95 - £94.68. Mr K paid the first two instalments 
and then told Peachy he needed help to repay the loan. A repayment plan was set up.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Ks complaint be upheld. He felt, given the 
circumstances of the lending, it would not have been proportionate for Peachy to ask for the 
level of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr K did not accept the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has cited a number of other cases considered by this service. I should start by saying 
that each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the face of it) to be a 
similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website and Ive 
used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
Peachy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether 
Mr K could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
So I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with circumstance. In general, 
Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer 
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But I might think a lender might need to do more if, for example, the consumers income was 
low or the amount lent or monthly repayment was high. And the longer the lending 
relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So Id expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt 
continued to provide loans to a customer irresponsibly. 
Peachy says it agreed to Mr Ks first application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. This information didnt suggest that Mr K wouldnt be able to make 
the repayment he was committing to. And in these circumstances, Peachy felt it wasnt 
irresponsible to lend. 
The information provided by Peachy does suggest that Mr K was asked to declare details of 
his monthly income, along with a breakdown of his monthly expenses. The latter specifically 
included the monthly amount towards his other short-term lending commitments. Mr K 
declared income of £1,900 and expenses of £720 (of which £220 was towards other short 
term lending commitments). Given the maximum monthly repayment of £94.68  the loan 
appeared affordable based on the information Mr K declared to Peachy.
I accept that Mr Ks actual circumstances werent reflected in the information he provided. 
But, in the absence of anything to suggest that it was likely to be unreliable, Peachy was 
entitled to rely on the information Mr K provided. I dont think there was any reason for 
Peachy to doubt the information Mr K gave it. The repayments that Mr K agreed to make on 
his loan were relatively modest compared to the monthly income that he declared to Peachy. 
And, even after allowing for his regular monthly expenditure and other borrowing, Im 
satisfied that the repayments would have appeared to be easily affordable for Mr K. 
So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time, and his lack of borrowing history with Peachy, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Peachy to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. So I dont think Peachy was wrong to give this loan to 
Mr K.
Ive also looked at Peachys actions, when Mr K told it he needed help with repayment of the 
loan, to see if it treated Mr K positively and sympathetically. Peachy has confirmed that the 
repayment plan was set up for the original amount due and any added additional interest or 
charges were removed at that point. Therefore, I consider that Peachy has treated Mr K 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman