DRN-2329998
The complaint
Ms C has complained about Marshall Pension & Financial Planning Ltd (Marshall). She is 
unhappy about the lack of service and delays in relation to various aspects of advice it 
provided in her financial affairs.
What happened
The investigator detailed the background to this complaint. I will summarise it here.
Ms C was referred to Marshalls in July 2018 for will-writing services. Ms C was in poor 
health and wanted assistance with will-writing and other matters including pension and 
property arrangements. Ms C provided information including details of her late husbands 
pension and work. Ms C heard nothing and asked for an update on 3 October 2018. The 
adviser then met with Ms C at her home on 17 October 2018. The adviser provided a verbal 
action plan on what to do with her properties and other assets. There was no written advice.
On 26 January 2019 Ms C spoke with the adviser and was reassured. On 30 January 2019 
Ms C had a significant meeting with her medical advisers and after that she decided to 
postpone treatment and surgery until her financial affairs were put in order. On 31 January 
2019 Ms C updated the adviser and expressed the urgency of the matter as she was
due to have surgery.
After that, Ms C chased the adviser several times. On 27 March 2019 a further appointment 
was made. The adviser didnt provide a written summary from the meeting in October 2018 
and there was no update on the pension issues. Ms C chased the adviser again for the 
summary of the meeting in writing but didnt get a response.
On 2 April 2019 the adviser set out an action plan in relation to three pensions, a power of 
attorney and a will. Ms C chased the adviser on several occasions between April 2019 and
August 2019 for the outcome of the action plan.
Ms C remained dissatisfied and so she complained to Marshall. Marshall accepted that the 
level of service she had received had fallen short of their normal service standards and 
offered to pay her £1,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
In addition, it arranged with another adviser firm to provide a full financial review free of 
charge.
Ms C referred her complaint to this service saying that she didnt think Marshall had fully 
grasped her complaint.
The complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. The investigator noted that 
Ms C was concerned that the adviser was working outside of his authority, in that he was
not licenced to provide will writing services, nor authorised to provide pension advice or
mortgage advice.
The investigator agreed that the adviser appeared to have made certain verbal 
recommendations or suggestions during their meetings relating to her properties and 
pension arrangements. He also recommended that Ms C seek legal advice and/or speak to 
a mortgage adviser. The adviser was also gathering information about Ms Cs late husbands 
pensions and in respect of one of her own pensions, and this information was to form the 
basis of a recommendation.
On the will writing, the investigator noted that this isnt a regulated activity that this service 
could look into. There was no formal written recommendation about mortgages or pensions. 
There was an action plan made in May 2019, but this was largely a list of things to do. 
Marshall had explained that the adviser would have had to refer Ms C to his principle for 
formal advice on pensions, but the investigator didnt think this was made clear to Ms C and 
could understand if she believed it was the adviser who was going to provide advice and a 
recommendation.
The investigator noted that there was no dispute that Marshalls didnt provide a good level 
of service. It was clear that Ms C had to chase the adviser. She eventually went elsewhere 
for advice about her will. Although Ms C felt that the adviser had lied about the steps taken 
on the pension issues, there was conflicting information. It wasnt clear that the adviser 
hadnt contacted the pension providers. However, there was clearly delay. The will and 
power of attorney could have been arranged sooner. The pension and mortgage issues may 
have taken some time to arrange in any event. One of the pension enquiries revealed that 
there was no payment due to Ms C, although she disputes this. Another pension has been 
moved into drawdown. An enquiry about her late husbands pension is unresolved.
Although there had been delays, the investigator wasnt satisfied that there was any financial 
loss due to the delays.
Marshall had offered £1,000 for any distress and inconvenience caused and a financial 
review free of charge. The investigator felt this offer was fair and didnt propose any 
additional award.
Ms C didnt agree and said that she wished to submit further information, but none has been 
provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I think Marshalls offer is fair. I dont make any additional award. 
Ill explain why.
Its clear and its accepted that there have been failures in service by Marshalls and its 
adviser. But there is no clear evidence of Ms C suffering any direct financial loss as a result 
of these delays or failures. 
The power of attorney documents have been arranged at the agreed cost. Ms Cs will has 
also been prepared, by another business but at no cost to Ms C.
In relation to the pension advice, it would not be unusual for an adviser to gather information 
and documents but then refer the matter to a pension specialist for the advice. There is no 
evidence that suggests that any delay in formulating any pension advice has caused any a 
loss to Ms C.Also, there is no evidence that Ms C has relied on any mortgage advice from Marshalls and 
changed her position to her detriment. 
Marshalls has accepted responsibility for its failures in service. Its offered £1,000 for any 
distress it has caused along with a free financial review. I think this offer is fair. Ms C was in 
poor health and this will no doubt have exacerbated and aggravated the distress she 
suffered. It was clearly a very difficult and challenging time for her. Having these issues 
resolved in good time was no doubt very important to her, and the delays will have caused 
immense frustration and worry. Im satisfied that there has been considerable distress and 
upset which should justify a substantial award, but the offer of £1,000 is substantial in my 
view and Im not making any further award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I consider the offer Marshalls has made to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman