DRN-4339902
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C hold a current account with Bank of Scotland plc. In March 2022, a fraudster 
tricked Mr C into paying just over £7,000 from this account to buy a motorbike which Mr C 
never received. 
Mr C thinks that Bank of Scotland should have spotted the fraud and stopped him making 
the payment. It didnt, so he wants it to refund him the money he lost.
(Although Mr C and Mrs C brought this complaint to us jointly, most of the relevant events 
only involved Mr C, who also handled most of the correspondence. I have therefore 
generally referred to Mr C alone in most of this decision). 
What happened
Mr C found the motorbike for sale online and contacted the seller, who turned out to be 
fraudulent. They discussed the motorbike via email, and the fraudster convinced Mr C that 
the bike was real, and he was a genuine seller. They agreed the price.
The fraudster gave Mr C details of an account he held with a payment service provider to 
which he should send the money. The account was overseas, but the fraudster gave Mr C 
convincing reasons for this. Mr C tried to send the money through the counter service in one 
of Bank of Scotlands branches, but the payment failed and was returned. (Mr C did not lose 
any money as a result of this attempted payment, but it provides context and background to 
what happened afterwards). 
Mr C contacted the fraudster about the failed payment and the fraudster provided him with 
different account details, with a different payee, but again for an overseas account. Around 
five days after Mr Cs first attempt to pay, he went back to the Bank of Scotland branch and 
tried again, still using the counter service. This time the payment went through. 
The fraudster had told Mr C that he would send the motorbike to him through a courier 
service, but the bike never arrived. When Mr C realised he had been the victim of fraud he 
went back to the Bank of Scotland branch and asked if it could get his money back for him. It 
tried to do so but failed. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend that 
Bank of Scotland should refund him any money. Mr C didnt agree with the investigators 
findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So, it has come to me as an 
ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to say how sorry I am to hear about what happened to Mr C at the hand 
of the fraudster. As well as causing financial loss, frauds are always very upsetting, and Mr 
C has my sympathy for the harm the fraudster caused him. 
There are two main points to Mr Cs complaint, the first is whether Bank of Scotland should 
have spotted the fraud and stopped him sending money to the fraudster, and the second is 
whether it should have done more to recover his money once he told it about the fraud. 
Should Bank of Scotland have spotted the fraud and stopped the payment? 
There is no doubt that when Mr C made the payment, he only did so because of the 
dishonesty of the fraudster, but he effectively instructed Bank of Scotland to send the money 
for him. Frauds of this type are often called Authorised Push Payment (APP) frauds. 
While banks are normally expected to act on their customers instructions, APP frauds are a 
significant concern in the banking industry and at the time of Mr Cs payment, I would have 
expected Bank of Scotland to be looking out for anything noticeably unusual. And if it saw 
anything worrying about a customers payment, or pattern of payments, I would have 
expected it to check if the payment was legitimate by asking the customer questions about it 
to help the customer judge if it could be a scam. The decision to go ahead or not would then 
normally lie with the customer. 
Both parties agree that Bank of Scotland considered Mr Cs payment to be unusual and that 
its counter staff checked it with him before proceeding. But they disagree about the nature of 
the questions which Bank of Scotland asked and the value of its checks. Bank of Scotland 
considers its checks to have been proportionate and appropriate for the circumstances, but 
Mr C doesnt. He thinks that Bank of Scotland should have been more rigorous, and that if 
it had been, it would have discovered the fraud and he would have stopped the payment. 
Obviously, I cant tell exactly what questions Bank of Scotland asked Mr C, what answers he 
gave and what else the conversation covered. On some points, Mr C and Bank of Scotland 
disagree directly. For example, Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr C said he knew the 
person who was selling the motorbike, but Mr C has told us that this is ludicrous and 
untrue.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a checklist of some of the questions it says it asked and also 
described some of the conversation. Amongst other things, I consider it likely that Bank of 
Scotland asked Mr C why the details of the account had changed after his first attempt to 
send the payment, and why he was buying the motorbike without having seen it. (Indeed, it 
has told us that it asked the second question several times). Bank of Scotland has told us 
that Mr C said the new account belonged to a friend of the seller and that he knew the 
motorbike was genuine without having seen it. It has said that overall Mr C was very 
insistent that everything was OK and so it followed his instruction to send the payment. 
Mr C has suggested some alternative questions that Bank of Scotland could have asked. I 
accept it could have asked these. However, in the circumstance of this complaint, I think the 
questions it did ask and the discussion it seems to have had amounted to reasonable 
checks.
Mr C has also said that Bank of Scotland should have checked the invoice the fraudster had 
sent him and had it done so, it would have spotted the fraud. I dont agree with this. I have 
seen a copy of the invoice and I am not convinced that it was sufficiently unusual to look 
fraudulent to Bank of Scotland. Similarly, Mr C has also said that Bank of Scotland should have called the Police before 
sending the payment. While there are certain circumstances where banks can, and should, 
call the Police, I dont think this was justified in this case. 
So, considering what both parties have told us, I think that Bank of Scotland made 
proportionate checks before sending Mr Cs payment, and didnt have sufficient grounds to 
stop it when he said he wanted to go ahead.
Did Bank of Scotland do enough to try to recover Mr Cs money after he reported the fraud?
When a customer reports a fraud to a bank, I expect the bank to try to reclaim the money the 
customer has lost from the beneficiarys account. However, recovering money from 
fraudsters like this can be extremely difficult, as they usually move it away from the receiving 
bank very quickly. So, time is of the essence. 
In Mr Cs case, as he didnt discover he was a victim of fraud until he knew he wasnt going 
to receive the motorbike, he didnt report the fraud to Bank of Scotland until well after he had 
sent the payment. Bank of Scotland then seems to have tried to recover his money almost 
immediately, but by that time it had little prospect of success. It failed as the fraudster had 
already moved the money beyond its reach. 
So, in summary, I think the checks which Bank of Scotland made before sending Mr Cs 
payment were reasonable and proportionate to the circumstances. And I also think that by 
the time Mr C told Bank of Scotland he was a victim of fraud, it was already too late for it to 
get his money back for him. So, while Mr C has my sincere sympathy, I do not think Bank of 
Scotland was responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman