DRN-2023941
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr S made an application for an account at Barclays in July 2017. It was declined and he 
was told that this was because of adverse information on his credit record. He later found in 
August 2019 that Barclays had also registered the fraud marker. Barclays said it was correct 
to record the marker and Mr S referred his complaint to this service and now has a 
representative.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the bar for 
recording a marker at CIFAS is a high one. Mr S had said to Barclays that he was not asked 
for his previous address history and only his current address. But Barclays had recorded that 
he had moved into that address in August 2013 and so wouldnt have asked for more 
information as it needed to know the last three years history. When it carried out its own 
checks it found a record of Mr S living at a different address in the past three years too. And 
that there was adverse credit information recorded at that address. Our investigator thought 
it most likely Mr S had provided false information to try and open an account he would not 
otherwise have been able to. So, Barclays had sufficient information to apply the marker.
Mr S did not agree and made personal representations and there were representations 
made on his behalf. He said that he moved into the address he gave Barclays in August 
2016 so there was a one-digit discrepancy in the year which was an honest mistake. He said 
he cannot read small fonts. There was no reason for him to give false information because 
he was well aware that Barclays would view his credit history. His other details were all 
correct. Barclays should have made basic enquiries to clarify the discrepancy. This has 
caused him significant financial distress and he thinks is the cause of him not being able to 
open accounts elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The standard for adding a marker to CIFAS is a high one. Barclays needs to have more than 
a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or 
financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this 
being reported to the authorities.
When Mr S contacted this service, he referred other similar complaints to us. Were looking 
at them individually, but I will also be issuing a decision about a complaint about his similar 
application made to another financial business with an incomplete address history. And as 
part of the information hes submitted to us with his representations hes shown he has 
another similar marker at CIFAS.
Im afraid that I think that the evidence that Barclays held about his application was clear. 
Ive seen from its records that it noted that Mr S had lived at the same address since August 
2013. If he had told it that this only applied from August 2016  less than a year before his 
application, then it said it would have asked about previous addresses. Mr S seems to 
accept in his representations that he knew about that adverse credit at his previous address. 
Im not satisfied on balance that the most likely explanation was that this was a mistake. I 
find it most likely that Mr S sought to conceal his past adverse credit history thinking that this 
would be relevant to whether or not hed be offered an account. He says he did not know 
that the CIFAS marker was recorded then. I know he subsequently made another application 
with a not dis-similar address discrepancy.
So, Im thinking about whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed the account given by Mr S and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr S did not disclose his full address history in the application.
- The most likely explanation for this was that he did this to help him obtain an 
account.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr S had attempted to make a fraudulent 
application.
So, I know Mr S will be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Barclays to do anything further about this CIFAS marker.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman