DRN-3326772
The complaint
Mr T complains that staff in a branch of National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt treat 
him fairly. They were unhelpful when he asked for statements to be printed, and then made 
him leave the branch.
What happened
Mr T says that on 16 September 2021 he went into a branch of NatWest and asked a 
member of staff to provide him with statements from his account. He was told that hed 
already requested the statements which were being sent to him, and that should he need 
any further information, such as recent transactions, he could get these through online or 
telephone banking. He said he was then asked to leave the branch.
Mr T complained to NatWest about how he was treated. He said its member of staff was 
unhelpful, didnt offer a good service and wouldnt let him speak to the manager or arrange a 
call back. He was then asked to leave.
In its final response letter, NatWest said he wasnt given copies of the statements in branch 
as these had already been ordered for him. And that after all his queries had been answered 
he was asked to leave as he had become disruptive. It said it wouldnt tolerate disruptive 
behaviour towards its staff.
Mr T didnt agree so complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. He thought that it was more likely than not that the staff in branch had tried to 
help him, and was more persuaded by the testimony from the staff that Mr T had become 
disruptive and thought it was reasonable for them to ask him to leave the branch.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is differing testimony about what happened in the branch. I obviously wasnt there, so 
cant be completely sure, and it is unfortunate that there is no CCTV evidence from the 
branch as this wouldve probably been very useful. But NatWest has a policy of only 
retaining coverage for 60 days, so it is no longer available. Where Ive found there is 
conflicting information available, or indeed a lack of definitive evidence, and both are 
applicable to this case, Ive decided what I think is most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities.
I want to make it clear that I am in no way questioning the truthfulness of any testimony. As 
Ive said, I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know for certain, and there is no CCTV, so I 
need to decide which account Im most persuaded by. And having carefully reviewed 
everything that has been said and written, I think it is more likely than not that the staff at the 
NatWest branch were reasonable in how they treated Mr T, so I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not disputed that Mr T went into the particular branch of NatWest and asked to be given 
copies of his bank statements, but what happened after this is where the testimonies differ.
Mr T has told us that the staff refused to provide the statements as he didnt know his PIN 
and wouldnt accept his passport as valid identification. But the staff have said that when 
they checked his account, they saw hed already ordered all the statements, and that if he 
needed anything further he could get it online or via telephone banking. They said Mr T then 
said the account he wanted the statements from was closed, so they told him that he would 
need to give them the sort code, account number and provide photographic identification for 
them to provide those statements. They say Mr T then became disruptive, throwing things 
around, and wanting to speak to the manager, so he was asked to leave. 
Mr T has told our service that he didnt become disruptive and shouldnt have been asked to 
leave. He said that he couldnt remember his PIN and didnt have access to the online 
banking through his phone. All he wanted was details of his recent transactions, but the staff 
were unwilling to help him. 
And if I thought this was probably the case then Id say NatWest had been unfair to him. But 
NatWest have provided our service with its contact notes. And these (and given they are 
automated records of contacts and account activity, I have no reason to doubt their 
authenticity) show that Mr T conducted transactions via his mobile banking in the run up to 
his visit to the branch, so Im satisfied he probably was able to access it. 
Mr Ts testimony has been inconsistent, and Im unsure of his purpose when he attended the 
branch on 16 September 2021. He has said he told the staff he wanted full statements, but 
NatWest have shown these had already been ordered for him. But as opposed to full 
statements, he has told our service that he just wanted to see the recent transactions on his 
account, and he didnt have online access to check this. But Ive seen he accessed his 
mobile account in the run up to his branch visit, the latest occasion only about one month 
before, so I think it is likely he did have access and was able to check this for himself.
Conversely, the testimony that has been provided by the staff from 16 September 2021 has 
been consistent throughout. They have said that they tried to help Mr T, and their account 
has been supported by the automated contact notes. But they said he became disruptive 
and started throwing pens around the branch so was asked to leave. Given the consistency 
and corroboration, I find the accounts provided by NatWest to be the most persuasive in this 
case.
As a result of all of this I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that on 16 September 
2021, the branch staff in NatWest didnt treat Mr T unfairly and so his complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Chris RiggsOmbudsman