DRN-3126331
The complaint
Miss B, through her representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent 
to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using the information from STFL, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Principal Term and Weekly 
RepaymentsDate Settled
1 21/09/2017 £100 10 x £15 30/11/2017
2 07/12/2017 £150 10 x £22.50 01/02/2018
3 01/02/2018 £200 10 x £30 03/05/2018
4 03/05/2018 £300 16 x £30 outstanding
 
STFL responded to Miss Bs complaint with its Final Response Letter (FRL) in 
February 2021. It did not uphold her complaint and so Miss B referred her complaint to this 
Service. In its submissions to us after the complaint had been referred to this Service, STFL 
offered to close the complaint by writing off the £35 balance remaining on loan 4. Miss B 
refused this offer. It has referred to offering her credit based on her loan applications, her 
payment history and her credit reports. But it has not sent to us any copies of those credit 
search results. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Miss Bs poor credit history 
was such that STFL ought never to have lent to her. 
STFL disagreed but did not send any additional evidence.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
From the application forms Miss B completed at the time the loans were approved, she has 
indicated she was a single mother on benefits with three small children. And this gives the 
context surrounding Miss Bs applications.  
I have reviewed the information that STFL had about Miss B before it lent to her and I agree 
with our adjudicator. STFL has confirmed that it carried out credit reference agency (CRA) 
searches before lending. It has not sent us copies of any results it obtained. 
So, in the absence of information from STFL I have felt justified using the information from 
Miss Bs credit file to give me an idea as to what it likely would have seen from those CRA 
searches. Those records demonstrated enough adverse information and other outstanding 
loans to indicate that she was not able to be able to afford these loans as a single mother of 
three young children, and Ive explained why below. STFL likely would have seen the default from 2016 for a mail order account. It was not huge 
but by the time she was applying for loan 1 Miss B had made no repayments towards it in 
the 10 months before lending from it. So, if Miss B was not able to repay her existing debt, 
I dont think she would have been able to repay a new debt. 
Miss B had two other existing loans with other home credit providers. In these 
circumstances, I think its unlikely Miss B was able to meet her repayments for this loan and 
any subsequent loans as she had experienced repayment problems with other accounts she 
held. 
When loan 2 was granted, Miss Bs credit file shows she had made no repayments
towards her defaulted account, and she had four outstanding loans with other home
credit providers. By loan 3, this had increased to five outstanding loans and a new debt
added with a debt collector. And by loan 4, she had six outstanding loans and two accounts
with debt collection.
The results ought to have indicated to STFL that Cs financial position was deteriorating. She 
couldnt repay outstanding debt and was reliant on new loans.
And I think STFL would have been aware of this when it obtained the credit checks it said it 
would have done, especially if this information was then verified against the expenditure 
Miss B had given to STFL.
Putting things right
STFL shouldnt have given Miss B any of the loans. 
If it has sold the outstanding debts STFL should buy these back if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If STFL is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) STFL should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything STFL has already refunded.
B) STFL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) STFL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then STFL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. STFL should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Miss B.
 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then STFL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with her. STFL shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal STFL has already written-
off.
E) STFL should remove any adverse payment information recorded about these loans.
If STFL intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss B owes, it must do this after tax. 
STFL cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
*HMRC requires STFL to take off tax from this interest. If Miss B asks STFL for a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off, STFL should provide this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct that Short Term Finance 
Limited does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman