DRN-3736618
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr W complain that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided their 
commercial vehicle insurance policy, didnt deal with their claim and didnt return any 
premium paid.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs H holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Calpe and Mr W is a named driver 
on that policy. When Mr W was involved in a road traffic accident, they made a claim to 
Caple for the damage.
Calpe didnt pay the claim. Instead, it avoided the policy from inception, effectively acting like 
it didnt exist. It refused to deal with the claim on the basis there was no valid policy in place. 
And, it kept the premium Mrs H paid it. It said it did this because Mrs H and Mr W made a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation when she took out the policy. It said it did 
what it thought the relevant law, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) allowed it to do.
Mrs H and Mr W complained but Caple didnt change its stance. So, they brought their 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld in part. She thought the relevant law 
wasnt CIDRA, but the Insurance Act 2015 (the IA). She thought under the IA, Calpe was 
entitled to avoid the policy and not deal with the claim. But she thought it needed to return 
the premium to Mrs H and Mr W.
Mrs H and Mr W agreed. Calpe didnt. It maintained the relevant act was CIDRA and 
maintained it had acted in line with it. So, it asked for an ombudsmans decision and the 
case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding the complaint in part. Ill explain why:
Calpe says this is a consumer policy and so the relevant law is CIDRA. It says it 
doesnt sell commercial polices, so this cant possibly be one. But I disagree. Looking 
at the policy document, the type of policy is listed as Goods/Commercial Vehicles 
and the type of uses is listed as Hire & Reward. Based on this, Im satisfied the 
policy is a commercial one, and the relevant law is the IA.
Ultimately though, whether the relevant law is CIDRA or the IA makes no difference 
in this case. While the acts differ in many ways, there are similarities too. And the 
point of contention here is whether or not Mrs H and Mr Ws qualifying breach of the 
act (or qualifying misrepresentation if looking at CIDRA) was deliberate or reckless.
When taking out the policy, Mrs H was asked who the registered owner and keeper 
was. She answered this by telling Caple it was her. But it wasnt. Mr W was the 
registered keeper, and the car was on finance meaning the finance company was the 
owner. Mrs H has said this was just a mistake. But that being so, Im satisfied it 
constitutes a failure to make a fair presentation of the risk (or that it constitutes a 
failure to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to Calpe if looking at 
CIDRA)
Calpe has shown that had it known the true facts  that Mr H was not the register 
keeper or owner and it was in fact Mr W  then it wouldnt have offered cover. This 
means its shown that Mrs Hs failure to make a fair presentation of the risk 
constitutes a qualifying breach of the IA (or constitutes a qualifying misrepresentation 
if looking at CIDRA)
Calpe thinks this was a deliberate or reckless breach (or a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation under CIDRA). But Im more persuaded that this was a neither 
deliberate nor reckless breach of the IA (or a careless misrepresentation under 
CIDRA). I say this because Im persuaded by Mrs Hs testimony that this was just a 
mistake. I dont find Calpe has done enough to show it was any more than this.
The IA (and CIDRA) sets out remedies for insurers where theres been a qualifying 
breach (or qualifying misrepresentation). And those remedies depend on how the 
breach (or misrepresentation) is treated.
Calpe has acted in line with the IA (and CIDRA)s remedies for a deliberate or 
reckless breach (or misrepresentation). But as set out above I dont think treating the 
breach (or misrepresentation) as deliberate or reckless is fair in this case. So, it 
should treat the breach (or misrepresentation) as neither deliberate nor reckless (or 
careless).
The remedy for a neither deliberate nor reckless breach of the IA (or a careless 
misrepresentation) where the insurer wouldnt have offered the policy on any terms is 
to avoid the policy  which would allow it to not deal with any claim made against it  
and to return the premium.
So, in line with the IA (and CIDRA), Calpe are entitled to avoid Mrs Hs policy and not 
deal with hers and Mr Ws claim. But it needs to return the premium she paid for the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, I require 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
Return the premium Mrs H paid it for the policy its avoided. Any payment should 
include 8% interest to be calculated from the date Caple avoided the policy, to the 
date it pays Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 Joe Thornley
Ombudsman