DRN-2450993
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 2001 and 2003 when 
he applied for a mortgage and a further advance.
What happened
In 2001, Mr R took out a PPI policy alongside his mortgage. The policy provided cover if 
Mr R couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job. He said he was told he 
had to have the PPI for the mortgage application to go through smoothly. 
In 2003, he took out further borrowing and a PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments 
Cover. He took this policy out as part of a package called Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP) which offered accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and life 
cover. 
He first complained that the 2003 policy was added automatically to his mortgage 
account without his knowledge or consent. But more recently, he said he was told he had 
to have the PPI for the mortgage application to go through smoothly.
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage Repayments Cover -the PPI part of
the TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover, as thats what Mr R has 
complained about.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. Mr R added he was told he had to take both 
policies to help the mortgage applications go through smoothly; he was in full time 
employment, would get sick pay from his employer, had some savings and a health 
insurance plan.
For clarity, I will deal with each PPI policy under separate headings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this part of the complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided the 2001 policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI policy taken out in 2001
Mr R said he was pressured to buy PPI because he was told he had to have it to help the 
mortgage application go through more smoothly. However, I have also seen Mr Rs 
mortgage application form where he ticked and signed to say, I would like to take 
advantage of Mortgage Repayment Insurance. And I also saw his PPI application which 
was a separate form. I can reasonably assume that he could have declined to complete 
the form, so as he had that choice, I think the policy was shown to be an optional product. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to him and Ill also continue on the basis that it 
was an advised sale. For an advised sale, Bank of Scotland had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr Rs needs. Having looked at his circumstances at the time of the sale, I 
think this policy was suitable for him in 2001 because he was eligible to buy it, he wasnt 
affected by the main things not covered by the policy (the exclusions) and it was 
affordable for him.
I accept Mr R had employee benefits if he was off work through accident or sickness - 
similar to the kind the PPI provided. But I think the PPI cover wouldve paid out in addition 
to his sick pay and savings for a longer period of time. So I think he could still have found 
the PPI useful if he couldnt work or lost his job. So I dont think his employee benefits and 
savings made the policy unsuitable for him.
Mr R also said he could rely on his parents to pay his mortgage repayments. I do 
understand the point he is making, but there was no guarantee that he could rely on this 
support at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think his parents support made the 
policy unsuitable for him.
For advised sales, Bank of Scotland also had to give Mr R enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I think the PPI application form highlighted the main exclusions. So I think its likely Mr R 
would have still bought the PPI because he wasnt affected by them. 
I also looked at the cost and benefits of the policy. These were shown quite clearly in the 
PPI application form. So I think he would have bought it even if the cost and benefits were 
more detailed. 
So I dont uphold this part of the mis-sale complaint.
The PPI policy taken out in 2003
Again, I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this part of the complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided the 2003 policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mr R aware he had a choice in buying the policy. Mr 
R said he was told to buy the PPI to make the mortgage application go through more 
smoothly.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr R have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 18 years ago. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. Although Mr R says he was 
pressured, he hasnt told me exactly what was said to him, at what stage during the 
mortgage process or by whom. I dont think there is enough evidence here to make me 
think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process. So overall, I think its more likely 
Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mr R he had a choice about the PPI, and he agreed to it 
although I can understand why he may not remember this in detail now.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the policy to Mr R. If this was the case, it had to 
check it was right for him. Looking at Mr Rs circumstances, I think it was right for him 
because he was eligible for PPI, it was affordable, and he wasnt affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr R said he would have received some sick pay benefits from his employer. But the 
policy could have paid out for a maximum of 24 months. This would have been 
alongside his employee benefits and would have also covered him if he was made 
redundant. I note that Mr R said he had a health insurance policy and savings. However, 
he had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on his home. So I think having the security that his mortgage repayments would 
be made by the PPI cover would have been important to him. So the PPI would have 
covered his mortgage payments, leaving his other insurance and savings for all his other 
living expenses. 
Mr R said he could have relied on his parents, but again there was no guarantee this support 
was available at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the policy 
unsuitable.
Bearing in mind the limited documentary evidence on this sale, its possible the information 
about the exclusions wasnt as clear as it could have been. But Mr R probably chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. So I dont think he was put off from buying the PPI without more detailed information 
about the main exclusions.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for him. So I dont think better information
about the PPI cost and benefits would have put Mr R off from taking out the cover. And 
overall I dont think Mr R had lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr R. Its always difficult to 
decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what 
Mr R has said and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands sales processes. And I dont 
think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold this part of the complaint.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Bank of Scotland says Mr Rs mortgage started in May 2001 and ended in October 2007. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr R paid for the PPI he 
had with his mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman