DRN-2783941
The complaint
Mr B complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr B is represented by a claims management company. But for ease of reference; Ill refer to 
all submissions if they were made by Mr B directly.
What happened
Bamboo approved Mr B for a £4,000 loan, with a term of 24 months. The repayments were 
approximately £250 per month.
Mr B says the loan was lent irresponsibly and that Bamboo did not complete proportionate 
checks before approving the application. Mr B says had Bamboo done this it wouldve seen 
the loan was unaffordable to him. Mr B says he has lost out financially, as he has had to pay 
additional interest and charges.
Bamboo says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks for the loan. It says the loan 
was taken for debt consolidation. It says it completed a search on Mr Bs credit file; 
completed an income and expenditure assessment and asked Mr B to provide payslips. 
Bamboo says these checks were proportionate to the amount being borrowed; and showed 
the loan was affordable to Mr B. Bamboo says its decision to lend was therefore fair.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. In coming to this view, he said:
Bamboo had completed proportionate checks in this instance. This was because 
Bamboo had obtained information to verify Mr Bs application; and this had enabled it 
to get a good understanding of Mr Bs finances.
The information Bamboo had gathered; and the assessment it had completed on    
Mr B had shown the loan was likely affordable. Our investigator also noted that the 
loan would consolidate all of Mr Bs existing debts; thereby leaving him with more 
disposable income to meet the loan repayment.
Mr B did not respond with any new information; but disagreed with the assessment our 
investigator had completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Bamboo is aware it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr B. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Bs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Having reviewed the information supplied; Im satisfied that Bamboo completed 
proportionate checks in this instance. The checks it completed gave it a detailed enough 
understanding of Mr Bs financial status. This included completing an income and 
expenditure assessment; and verifying this information via a credit search and asking Mr B 
to provide copies of his payslips.
The information it gathered demonstrated that Mr Bs income was around £2,200; and the 
payslips verified this. Mr Bs outgoings and existing debts were discussed in detail; and the 
credit file search verified the existing commitments Mr B was looking to consolidate. The 
credit file search showed that Mr B had existing debt commitments of around £2,200. This 
debt was made up of unsecured lending which had up until that point be maintained well. 
The calculations Bamboo used allowed it to calculate Mr Bs existing debt repayments were 
around £630 per month. The purpose of this loan was to consolidate down Mr Bs existing 
debts; so, the fact the checks covered these in detailed is persuasive in this instance. 
Bamboo then calculated the remaining expenses Mr B had via his own declarations and 
using ONS data. These gave an appropriate figure; and highlighted all of Mr Bs key 
expenses including things like rent. The information that Bamboo collected appeared to be in 
line with the declarations Mr B had provided; and the information did not show any further 
debts or negative markers that Mr B had not declared.
As Bamboos checks covered all of Mr Bs main outgoings (including the debts he was 
consolidating); and verified his income; Im satisfied they were proportionate in this instance.
After completing proportionate checks Bamboo then needed to consider if the information it 
had collected demonstrated that lending to Mr B would be a fair decision (bearing in mind 
the criteria I set out above). 
The information that Bamboo collected demonstrated that Mr B would be left with sufficient 
income to meet his necessary outgoings, whilst leaving him a suitable amount of disposable 
income to meet any unexpected outgoings. The fact this loan was being used to consolidate 
down Mr Bs existing debts is persuasive. The calculation that Bamboo made meant that    
Mr B would be reducing his overall outgoings by around £380 month. The amount being lent 
also covered all of Mr Bs existing credit commitments; meaning that he wouldnt be left 
paying other commitments at the same time as this one. 
The rest of the affordability assessment demonstrated that Mr Bs verified income would be 
enough to meet his necessary outgoings. And the credit file search demonstrated that Mr B 
had not had issues managing credit in the past.
So based on what Ive been presented with; Im satisfied Bamboos decision to lend based 
on the information it had gathered at the time of the application, was reasonable. As such I 
cant say it acted unfairly in lending to Mr B.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bamboo Loans Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman