DRN-3581941
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs F are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2015, Mr and Mrs F were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs F decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In April 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs F to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £12,385.05 but when the interest 
was added the total cost was £24,213.60; and
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments and 
electricity savings; and
the financial benefits would cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Mr and Mrs F were never given time to consider the paperwork and were pressured 
into signing.
Shawbrook didnt initially issue a final response within the required eight-week period. But it 
did issue a response after referral of the complaint to this service. It explained that it didnt 
agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs F or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs F deny ever having seen the quote provided by P; and
Mr and Mrs F relied upon the verbal representations made by the sales 
representative.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs F could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs F and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The consumer says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Fs testimony and recollection of 
the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. It also sets 
out the total cash price of the goods and services included.
Mr and Mrs F said that the cost of the system was documented as £12,385.05. But as this 
figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, the true cost was £24,213.60. Its 
relevant to point out that the actual cost of the system included within the solar quote was 
£7,885.05. However, Shawbrook have explained that due to a separate roofing issue which 
Mr and Mrs F chose to have rectified, an additional £4,500 was added to the loan 
agreement, at their request, to cover the required repairs. This element of the loan didnt form part of the system cost. So, proportionately, the real cost of the system, including 
interest, was £15,415.80.
On balance Im satisfied that the Mr and Mrs F were told that the cost of the system itself 
was £7,885.05. The quote sets this out clearly. This is supported by the credit agreement 
which shows that the total cash price of the system and the cost of the roof repairs of £4,500 
was £12,385.05. The credit agreement shows the monthly repayment was £134.52. The 
total amount of credit is £12,385.05 and it goes on to show that the total amount payable 
would be £24,213.60. The quote shows a monthly repayment of £84.25 in relation to the 
system cost alone.
Having considered all the evidence, including the Mr and Mrs Fs recollections, Im satisfied 
that they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below although the quote does only relate to the system cost of 
£7,885.05. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, 
made it clear that although the cost of the system and roof repairs was £12,385.05, it would 
cost Mr and Mrs F more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing 
loan. 
Mr and Mrs F have said they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and energy savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. In doing so, Ive only 
considered the costs that relate specifically to the systems purchase and installation.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs F could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs F could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £322.18, which results in an average monthly income of £26.85. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote sets out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £84.25. The credit agreement sets out a higher monthly loan repayment of 
£134.52 as this includes the roof repair costs. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs F could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £252.58 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs F the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £575.76. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs F entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £84.25. For each year of the 15-year loan, it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £84.25, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs F could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments for the system cost. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the 
FIT income to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income 
they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. 
However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs F that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs F were told by P 
that the system would be self-funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs 
F could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement in relation to the system cost. The table also shows that the total loan costs, 
including the funded cost of roof repairs, wouldnt be expected to be covered within 20 years. 
But as that element of the loan didnt specifically relate to the system cost, I wouldnt expect 
that to be covered by the income and savings generated by the system.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs F that the system would pay for 
itself by year 17, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs F. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,163 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Fs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,432 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and those increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think explain why Mr and Mrs F havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices were lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs F 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs F entered into the 
contract.
The Sales Presentation
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon Mr 
and Mrs F to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous historic 
allegations which were investigated and addressed by Trading Standards. This service has 
been provided with assurances that those concerns were addressed and remedied, in co-
operation with Trading Standards, prior to Ps sale to Mr and Mrs F.
And as I mentioned above, Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales 
process and it wouldve been discussed with Mr and Mrs F. So, Ive not been persuaded that 
the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the 
quote. To support this, Im satisfied that the Mr and Mrs F were sent the quote, had time to 
consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs F to 
enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
Shawbrook have acknowledged that there were delays in responding to Mr and Mrs Fs 
original complaint. By way of an apology, Shawbrook have offered to pay £200 to reflect this. 
This feels fair to me in these circumstances and Mr and Mrs F should contact Shawbrook, 
should they wish to accept its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman