DRN-4468282
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their decision to 
decline the claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. The events that occurred when 
Mrs G made a claim on this policy are well known to both parties and so, I dont intend to list 
them in detail. But in short, Mrs G made a claim for damage she felt occurred while her car 
was parked in a retail car park, when she was inside the shop and wasnt witness to the 
incident.
AIC attempted to validate Mrs Gs claim but ultimately decided to decline it, stating the claim 
was fraudulent, false, or exaggerated, as they felt the damage being claimed for was pre-
existing from a third-party claim they processed around January 2022. Mrs G was unhappy 
with this decision, and the service AIC provided during the claim process. So, she raised a 
complaint. 
Mrs G didnt think AIC acted fairly when declining the claim, as the car had no damage when 
she purchased it the month before. Mrs G was also unhappy with the delays shed 
experienced during the claim and that shed been required to return her hire car without 
having her damaged car returned to her first.
AIC responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought their decision to decline 
the claim was a fair one, in line with the terms and conditions of their policy. But they agreed 
there had been a delay in paying the storage costs, which delayed the return of Mrs Gs car. 
So, they offered Mrs G a payment of £50 to recognise any inconvenience this caused. Mrs G 
rejected this payment and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint initially and upheld it. They thought AICs decision 
to decline was a fair one, in line with the terms of the policy. And they thought another 
insurer would most likely have taken the same action in the same circumstances. So, they 
didnt think this decision should be overturned. But they didnt think the £50 offered by AIC 
was enough to compensate Mrs G for the delays she experienced and so, they thought AIC 
should pay Mrs G a further £150, on top of the £50 already offered.
Mrs G didnt agree, providing several comments explaining why. These included, and are not 
limited to, her belief that it was unfair for AIC to decide her claim was fraudulent when they 
had failed to obtain CCTV footage that wouldve shown the incident and the damage caused.
Our investigator considered Mrs Gs comments. And they returned to AIC for information 
surrounding the request for CCTV footage. Our investigator thought about the above and 
issued a second outcome recommending AIC pay an additional £250, rather than the £150 
they originally recommended, to account for AICs failure to request the CCTV footage. But 
they explained their view regarding the claim decline remained the same, as they were 
unable to speculate on whether the footage was available, and what this footage wouldve 
shown.
Mrs G continued to disagree, for the same reasons shed already made clear in the main. As 
Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs G. I want to make it clear 
I am in no way disputing Mrs Gs testimony on what she feels happened in the retail car 
park, and how this led to the damage she claimed for. And I recognise the significant impact 
having her claim declined on the basis it was fraudulent, false, or exaggerated has had on 
her, both emotionally and financially. So, I do understand why Mrs G feels unfairly treated 
and why shes raised a complaint.
But for me to say AIC should reverse their claim decision, I first need to be satisfied that, 
based on the evidence available to AIC at the time, the decision they made failed to fall in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs G held. Or, if I think it did act within 
these, that AIC acted unfairly in some other way. And when considering the fairness of AICs 
actions, Ive thought about what I think another insurer is most likely to have done, in the 
same circumstances. And having considered all the above, I dont think I can say AIC have 
done something wrong regarding the claim decline. And Ill explain why.
I also think its important to make clear that its not my role to speculate on how the incident 
occurred, and what damage was caused, as I wasnt present at the time. So, this isnt 
something I intend to do.
And I think its important to note that when any claim is made on an insurance policy, the 
insurer is entitled to take reasonable steps to validate the claim. And this includes ensuring 
the claim itself is covered under the policy they provide.
In this situation, I can see AIC were unable to validate the claim and, on this basis, chose to 
decline it. Ive read through the terms and conditions of the policy at length, and Ive seen 
under the fraud section it states, we may refuse to pay the whole of your claim if any part is 
in any way fraudulent, false, or exaggerated and recover costs from you and costs that we 
have incurred. So, Ive thought about the evidence available to AIC when they made the 
decision to decline the claim under this policy term.
Ive seen the inspection report from the independent engineer who inspected Mrs Gs car. 
And within this report, the engineer stated that the damage to Mrs Gs car appears old 
standing to the corrosion noted and is similar in nature to the previous damage stated on the 
engineers report provided. As this engineer was the expert, I think AIC were fair to take this 
opinion into consideration when validating the claim. And I think AIC took more than 
reasonable action by instructing a separate, independent validation company, who Ill refer to 
as B, to consider the reports and photos from the damage in January 2022 and Mrs Gs 
claim in December 2022, to consider whether the damage being claimed for was pre-
existing.
Ive seen the report from B, which states there is no evidence of additional damage having 
been caused to the vehicle following the January 2022 incident as well as the damage is not consistent with having been caused in the alleged incident. So, I think this report 
provides an expert opinion which stated that the damage Mrs G was claiming for was most 
likely pre-existing from a separate claim AIC had been involved with earlier in the year. And 
as this opinion was provided by an independent expert, I dont think I can say AIC were 
unfair to rely on this, as I think another insurer wouldve most likely done the same.
And because of this, I dont think Im able to say AIC were unfair to rely on the policy term 
Ive quoted above referring to a fraudulent, false, or exaggerated claim, as the evidence 
available to them suggested that Mrs G was claiming for damage already present on the car 
before the incident she stated happened in the retail car park. 
I recognise Mrs G doesnt agree, and that she feels strongly there was no damage present 
when she bought the car. But Mrs G hasnt been able to provide photographic evidence to 
show the condition of her car from when she bought it, up to the date of the alleged incident. 
And while I note Mrs G feels she has a witness who can support her testimony, this witness 
is known to Mrs G and so, cant reasonably be considered to be independent. So, I wouldnt 
expect this witness testimony to influence the decision AIC reached, or the decision Ive 
made here.
And while I note Mrs G feels there was CCTV footage to support her position, I note this 
CCTV footage hasnt been made available. I do think AIC shouldve done more regarding 
this, and I think they were unfair not to request it in December 2022, as their claim notes 
made clear this was their intention. So, I will discuss this failure, and what AIC should do to 
compensate for this, later within the decision. But crucially, the failure to obtain this footage 
alone does not mean the claim decision AIC reached was unfair.
This is because Im unable to say for certain this footage was available. Or even if it was, 
that it would show the alleged incident. I note Mrs G didnt notice the damage until the 
following day, and that the incident was alleged to having happened the previous morning. 
So, there was around a 24-hour period where the damage may have occurred, and there is 
nothing to suggest for certain it did happen in the retail car park where footage couldve been 
requested. In Mrs Gs own testimony to AIC, she confirmed when she returned to her car in 
the retail car park, she didnt notice the damage. So, I do think this means its impossible to 
say for certain this is where an incident took place.  
So, because of the above, I think AIC acted in line with the terms of the policy Mrs G held 
when declining the claim for the reasons they stipulated. And I think they acted fairly when 
doing so, based on the evidence they had available to them. So, I dont think they need to do 
anything more for this aspect of the complaint. 
And as the claim was declined, Id expect AIC to request the return of the hire car Mrs G was 
in, as she was then liable for additional costs which included any further hire charges. So, I 
think they were fair to request the return of this hire car, even though it left Mrs G without 
transport.
But as Ive explained above, I do think AIC couldve been more proactive in attempting to 
obtain the CCTV footage. And its been accepted by AIC already that there were delays in 
the claim process, which included their failure to pay storage costs meaning Mrs Gs car was 
released back to her later than it shouldve been. So, I do think AIC were both unfair and 
unreasonable in the service they provided and so, Ive turned to what I think AIC should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs G back in the position she wouldve been in, had AIC acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, I think AIC would most likely 
have always declined the claim. So, I wont be asking AIC to reverse this decision.
But had AIC acted fairly, I think they wouldve requested the CCTV footage and by not doing 
so, Mrs G lost the opportunity for this footage to be considered as part of the claim she 
made. So, I think she should be compensated for this loss of opportunity.
And had AIC progressed the claim as I wouldve expected, I think it wouldve been 
concluded sooner, and that Mrs G wouldve received her car back quicker which in turn 
wouldve allowed her to take the action she wanted regarding the car, whether that was to 
arrange repairs herself or seek its scrap value considering it was deemed a total loss. So, I 
think she should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Our investigator recommended AIC pay Mrs G an additional £250, on top of the £50 already 
issued to Mrs G by cheque, taking the total compensation amount to £300 to recognise the 
above. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think it fairly recognises the service failures, and the emotional distress Mrs G has been 
caused wondering whether the CCTV footage wouldve impacted the claim decision or not. 
But in the same respect, it fairly takes into consideration the fact there is no guarantee the 
CCTV footage wouldve provided information that supported Mrs Gs testimony regarding the 
claim, considering the expert opinions that were obtained. So, Im directing AIC to pay Mrs G 
a total of £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs G an additional compensatory amount of £250, which is on top of the £50 
cheque already issued. If Mrs G no longer has this cheque available to cash, I would 
expect AIC to issue another cheque to ensure the total amount paid equates to £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman