DRN-1957935
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc didnt close his account when requested and then asked 
him to visit a branch in order to close his account. 
What happened
Mr F opened an online classic plus account with TSB around October 2015. In 2019, Mr F 
says he wrote to TSB several times because he wanted his account closed. Mr F telephoned 
TSB around November 2019 when he realised that his account hadnt been closed.
TSB informed Mr F that hed need to visit a branch if he wanted to close his account. Mr F 
was unhappy with this option and complained to TSB. In its response, TSB said it hadnt 
received any of the letters Mr F had sent. It explained that it wouldnt have been able to 
accept the letters as enough to close the account because it didnt have a copy of Mr Fs 
signature on file. TSB also said that Mr F wasnt registered for telephone banking so it 
couldnt close his account over the phone either.
Mr F remained unhappy and asked this service to look in to his complaint. In the meantime, 
Mr F raised a request under General Data Protection Regulations GDPR), asking TSB to 
remove his personal data from its records. As part of this, TSB decided to close Mr Fs 
account. 
Our investigator concluded that TSB had acted fairly and its instruction to Mr F to visit a 
branch was reasonable. Mr F expressed concerns that his credit rating was negatively 
affected because the account was left opened. Our investigator concluded that there was no 
evidence of this happening. 
Mr F didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
I havent seen copies of the letters Mr F says he sent to TSB and Mr F hasnt 
provided anything to show me that these were sent. TSB says it has no record of 
these letters being received. Even if the letters were received, TSB says these 
wouldnt have been enough as the bank didnt hold a record of Mr Fs signature. I 
dont think this is unreasonable, given the bank wouldnt have been able to verify that 
it was indeed Mr F that had requested the closure of his account.
Mr F is unhappy that he didnt have the option to close his account over the phone  
particularly as TSB was able to verify him over the phone when he called to request a 
new debit card. TSB says that the card verification process differs and involves a 
range of questions. TSB also says that it has different security processes in place 
depending on the communication channel a customer uses to request that their 
account is closed.
My role involves looking in to whether Mr F was treated unfairly by TSB. I cant 
instruct TSB to change its processes  I can only ask it to do something differently if I 
think Mr F has experienced a level of unfairness. In this instance, TSBs processes 
meant Mr F couldnt close his account over the phone. Additionally, it seems he 
wasnt registered for telephone banking so I dont think TSB acted unfairly when it 
said it couldnt action Mr Fs request over the phone.
Mr Fs main complaint is that TSB asked him to visit a branch to close his account. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to do so, as it didnt have Mr Fs signature on 
record, nor did there seem to be any other option available. Coincidently, TSB closed 
Mr Fs account as part of fulfilling Mr Fs GDPR request. TSB says it went outside 
usual process to close the account in this instance. Mr F didnt end up having to visit 
a branch, so I wont be asking TSB to do anything in relation to this. 
Mr F is concerned that the account being left opened for longer than he wanted 
wouldve impacted his credit rating. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
there has been a negative impact to Mr Fs credit rating, so I cant say that hes 
suffered a loss because of this.
Mr F wants TSB to compensate him for the time hes spent contacting TSB and 
complaining. But my role is to investigate whether TSB has done something wrong 
and, if it has, explain what I think it should do to put things right. In this instance, I 
think TSB has acted fairly. And I dont think the level of contact Mr F has had with 
TSB to resolve this matter is disproportionate or unreasonable. So I wont be asking 
TSB to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 October 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman