DRN-2851768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they understood their mortgage would be paid off at the end of 
its term, but it hasnt been. So, they believe that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold hem 
the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B also have issues with the way that Nationwide administered 
their account.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2000. The loan was for £74,700. Part 
of the loan - £46,700 - was interest only and part - £30,000 - was on a repayment basis. The 
mortgage was arranged on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf by a mortgage intermediary. The term of 
the loan was for 19 years to coincide with the maturity of an endowment policy. In June 
2019, Nationwide told Mr and Mrs B that they still owed £17,863.44. Mr and Mrs B were 
baffled by this. They understood that part of the loan would be paid through cashing in an 
endowment policy and the balance would be paid off by the repayment of capital and 
interest. But after raising a complaint with Nationwide they were told that this wasnt how the 
mortgage was arranged. Mr and Mrs B believe that either there was an error in the 
arrangement, or the mortgage was mis-sold.
Our investigator thought that in the main Nationwide had acted fairly and had not mis-sold 
the mortgage. But she accepted that Nationwide has caused Mr and Mrs B distress by not 
adhering to their request only to be contacted in writing and a visit from a field agent without 
notification and suggested compensation of £200. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B understood that the Nationwide mortgage was set up so that the interest only 
part of the mortgage would be covered by the endowment policy they had in place to pay it 
off and the balance would be repaid by the repayment part of the mortgage. But at the end of 
the term there was a gap and there was still a balance due. I have to consider whether this 
difficulty was caused by Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs B say that the mortgage was mis-sold by Nationwide. Ive looked at the original 
mortgage offer dated 31 March 2000 and its significant that the offer says that the mortgage 
was introduced to Nationwide by Mr and Mrs Bs professional adviser and that we 
(Nationwide) have not provided you with advice on the mortgage product that you have 
selected. This confirms that Nationwide didnt recommend the mortgage to Mr and Mrs B or 
advise that it was suitable for them. Whether the mortgage suited what they wanted to 
achieve was a matter between Mr and Mrs B and their adviser and as the offer makes clear-
it was they who selected the mortgage. 
From what Mr and Mrs B tell me they knew when the mortgage was set up that the 
endowment policy that they had wouldnt pay off all the interest only part of the mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs B tell me that it was to produce £28,000 and they had to adjust their payments on 
several occasions to maintain that figure. I presume that as Mr and Mrs B knew there was to 
be a shortfall that they may have discussed how to fund the shortfall with their adviser at that 
time. There are other ways rather than through an endowment policy by which the shortfall 
could have been funded such as a lump sum pension payment. But, advice on funding the 
shortfall didnt fall to Nationwide. It wasnt involved in the advice process. It was simply 
providing a product that their adviser thought suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Nationwide says in the mortgage offer how much of the mortgage was interest only and how 
much was repayment. It doesnt make any commitment that the repayment part of the 
mortgage will cover the deficit between the interest only part and the money from the 
endowment policy. That isnt how this mortgage was set up. Mr and Mrs B accepted the 
terms that were fairly set out by Nationwide. As Nationwide didnt provide advice to Mr and 
Mrs B I cant fairly say that it mis-sold the mortgage to them.
It also seems to me that Nationwide in their annual statements kept Mr and Mrs B informed 
as to what the interest only balance was - its always referred to as £46,700 - and so that 
part of the mortgage wasnt decreasing through repayments as Mr and Mrs B say that they 
expected.
So, I cannot fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Nationwide about the sale of the 
mortgage and how it was set up. Unfortunately, since the mortgage term ended, Mr and Mrs 
B owe a debt of more than £17,000 to Nationwide with continuing interest on that. 
Nationwide has tried to engage with Mr and Mrs B but not in the manner that Mr and Mrs B 
wanted - by phone and field agent rather than in writing. Its clearly in both parties interest 
that there is an engagement to facilitate Mr and Mrs B repaying this liability, but Nationwide 
should respect Mr and Mrs Bs wishes that this be done in writing. I agree with our 
investigator that Nationwides failure to respect Mr and Mrs Bs wishes caused them distress 
and that £200 represents fair compensation and of course there should be no fee added to 
the account for the field agents visit. So, I will be upholding that part of the complaint. 
But as I say above, I dont accept that its Nationwides fault that Mr and Mrs B have this 
remaining liability and I wont be upholding that part of the complaint. The remaining balance 
should have been paid to Nationwide in 2019. Nationwide has indicated that it would look at 
a term extension to allow Mr and Mrs B time to pay this off. I would urge Mr and Mrs B to use 
this opportunity to contact Nationwide to explore options with the Society as to how to pay off 
this liability. 
 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs B £200. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman