DRN-4053411
The complaint
Mr P complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ps sports utility vehicle had first been registered in 2010 and he had acquired it in 2015 
(according to the proposal form). For the year from early September 2021, the vehicle was 
insured on a comprehensive policy with Markerstudy. 
Unfortunately, in mid-October 2021, Mr Ps vehicle and a third partys were involved in an 
incident. Mr P contacted Markerstudy.
Markerstudy paid for repair of the third partys vehicle.
In late February 2022, the third party made a claim against Mr P for personal injury. In early 
March 2022, Markerstudy wrote a letter to Mr P saying that he had accepted fault and it 
would settle any third party claim.
Mr P said he hadnt hit the third partys vehicle. In mid-March 2022, a vehicle assessor 
inspected Mr Ps vehicle and did a report for Markerstudy.
Mr P complained to Markerstudy. He said that it had treated the incident as his fault without 
having contacted him and given him an opportunity to give a full statement of events.
By a final response dated mid- January 2023, Markerstudy apologised for poor 
communication and said it was sending a cheque for £150.00 compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience this caused. But it said that it had been reasonable to settle the third 
partys claims.
Mr P asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Markerstudy settled the claim fairly based on the evidence provided.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He hit the kerb which was at a 45-degree angle so wouldn't cause any damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim  particularly a fault claim  is likely to increase the premium from the next 
renewal.
Most motor policies include a term that allows the insurer to decide how best to settle any 
claim involving a third party. Markerstudys terms included the following term:
Any indication of a claim against you must be notified to us as soon as possible. Any 
writ, or notification of civil or criminal proceedings should be sent to us by recorded 
delivery immediately.
We shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
or prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this insurance.
I consider that  on any issue of liability to a third party  Markerstudys view would prevail 
over the policyholders view. I will consider whether Markerstudy applied that term fairly in 
the case of Mr P.
The first notification is important. I regard it as likely to be more reliable than any later 
conflicting versions of events.
From the call recording of Mr Ps first notification, I find that he said he had moved into the 
left lane and clipped the third partys vehicle.
 
The third party made a claim for damage to their offside wing. This was based on a version 
of events very similar to Mr Ps first notification. As there didnt appear to be any dispute at 
that stage, I consider that Markerstudy had to do a proportionate investigation whether the 
damage to the third partys vehicle was consistent with the reported incident. 
Im satisfied that Markerstudy did enough before settling the third partys claim on a without 
prejudice basis.
The third party also made a claim for personal injury. That was supported by medical 
evidence.
Mr P has told us that, at the time of the incident, he believed that his vehicle had hit the third 
partys vehicle. He later believed that hed felt a bump when hed hit the kerb with one of his 
offside (right) wheels. He said that his vehicle had no marks other than dirt and marks 
consistent with its age.
From one of Mr Ps photographs, I accept that he couldve hit the kerb without damaging any 
of his alloy wheels or his tyres.
However, his initial report of moving into the left lane isnt consistent with hitting the kerb on 
his right.
The vehicle assessors report noted light collision impact to the nearside (left) rear bumper
of Mr Ps vehicle but no damage to its offside (right).
I consider that Markerstudy did a proportionate investigation into the third partys claims. 
Markerstudy decided that - rather than incur the risk and cost of defending court proceedings 
 it would settle with the third party. 
I conclude that this was a reasonable decision. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Markerstudy to change the way it has recorded the claim. I dont hold Markerstudy 
responsible for unfairly causing the effect of the claim on Mr Ps premium for the year from 
September 2022.Markerstudy didnt communicate with Mr P as well as it shouldve done. I dont doubt that 
there were times when this left Mr P wondering what was going on. But overall Im satisfied 
that £150.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the shortcomings in Markerstudys communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman