DRN-3759825
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered to her by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mrs L visited a Barclays branch to update her telephone number and address. Unfortunately, 
Barclays updated her sister-in-laws details in error, because she holds a similar name. Mrs 
L wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ls complaint. They acknowledged the wrong persons details had 
been updated, and they confirmed that the error had since been corrected. Barclays also 
apologised to Mrs L for what had happened and offered to pay £100 compensation for any 
trouble or upset shed incurred. Mrs L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she 
referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Barclays had already issued to Mrs L, including the offer of £100 compensation, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted that they updated Mrs Ls sister-in-laws customer profile by mistake 
when Mrs L updated her address and telephone number in branch. This resulted in Mrs L 
receiving notifications from Barclays to her telephone about her sister-in-laws accounts.
Mrs L also believes that her sister-in-law received notifications from Barclays about her 
accounts, and explains that this has caused considerable stress between her sister-in-law 
and herself as her sister-in-law has become aware of Mrs Ls wealth and feels that Mrs L 
could have provided greater financial assistance to her during times of need.
However, Barclays have provided information to this service which Im satisfied confirms that 
no SMS or emails were sent out on Mrs Ls profile during the time between Mrs Ls visiting 
branch to update her telephone number  when the error was made  until the error was 
corrected approximately two weeks later.
Additionally, while it seems apparent that Barclays incorrectly updated Mrs Ls sister in laws 
profile with Mrs Ls details, it doesnt follow from this that Barclays would also have then 
gone into Mrs Ls sister in laws profile and added Mrs Ls details  effectively switching the 
telephone numbers and addresses round. Indeed, its difficult to understand why Barclays 
would have done this, given that they already believed (incorrectly) that they had accessed 
Mrs Ls profile and updated her details.
It's also notable that while Mrs L has been able to provide screenshots which confirm she 
received information to her telephone about her sister-in-laws Barclays accounts, she hasnt 
been able to provide similar screenshots which confirm that information about her accounts 
was sent to her sister-in-laws telephone as she contends. And given what Ive discussed 
above, I feel that this is most likely because information about Mrs Ls Barclays accounts 
was never sent by Barclays to Mrs Ls sister in laws telephone as Mrs L believes was the 
case.
Accordingly, while I accept that Mrs L may have incurred some distress and inconvenience 
as a result of her receiving information to her telephone about her sister-in-laws accounts, 
including that her sister-in-law may understandably not have been happy about the issue, I 
feel that the £100 compensation payment that Barclays have already offered to Mrs L for 
incorrectly updating her address and telephone number on her sister-in-laws profile already 
represents a fair and reasonable compensation offer for that error.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ls favour, I will only be doing so to 
formalise the offer of £100 compensation that Barclays have already made. And I wont be 
instructing Barclays to make any further compensation payment to Mrs L as she would like.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs L was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £100 to Mrs L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman