DRN-2700489
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the service she received when she voluntary terminated her 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.  
What happened
Mrs N was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with VWFS.
In April 2020 Mrs N experienced financial difficulties. She contacted VWFS who advised her 
of her options in relation to her payments and her agreement. 
In June 2020 Mrs N contacted VWFS to voluntary terminate the agreement. She also asked 
to make a payment arrangement to pay the shortfall. VWFS advised Mrs N that she couldnt 
set up a payment arrangement until after her car had been collected.
The car was collected in July 2020. Mrs N contacted VWFS again to try and set up a 
payment arrangement but found it difficult to speak to the correct person at VWFS. In August 
2020 Mrs N received a letter of arrears, even though she had by then set up an arrangement 
to pay. VWFS advised Mrs N to disregard the letter but Mrs N received further arrears 
letters. When Mrs N contacted BVWFS to discuss the letter her call was disconnected. 
Mrs N complained to VWFS. In response, VWFS acknowledged that Mrs N had called on 
numerous occasions and received inconsistent responses. It apologised for the level of 
service provided and sent Mrs N a bunch of flowers.
Mrs N wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated by this service, VWFS made an offer to wrote 
off Mrs Ns remaining balance and remove the late payment marker from her credit file. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair and said VWFS didnt need to do more than this.
Mrs n didnt agree. She wanted this service to listen to all the calls shed had with VWFS and 
said she wanted more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs N contacted VWFS on numerous occasions to try and set up a payment 
arrangement. I can also see that despite having set up a payment arrangement , she 
received arrears letters. VWFS has acknowledged that it didnt provide the level of service 
that Mrs N ought reasonably have expected and has since made an offer to write off the 
remaining balance and amend her credit file.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs N and VWFS. Im not going to describe every call in 
detail but Ill summarise things based on what I heard. Its clear that Mrs N has had a 
distressing year and its fair to say that the difficulties she experienced in trying to discuss the 
payment arrangement with VWFS have added to her frustration. I agree with VWFS that it 
provided a poor level of service to Mrs N.  
Putting things right
In considering whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint, Ive had regard to 
the impact that this has had on Mrs N. Generally, this service would look to make an award 
of compensation for distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this.
However, in this case, VWFS has offered to write off the outstanding balance. It isnt under 
an obligation to do this because this is a sum of money which is legitimately owed by Mrs N. 
The sum which VWFS has offered to write off exceeds the amount of compensation which 
this service would generally offer in circumstances like this. Taking this into account, I think 
the offer by VWFS is fair, and I wont be asking it to pay further compensation in addition to 
writing of the balance and amending the credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that In uphold the complaint and I think the offer made by VWFS during 
the course of the investigation by this service is fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman