DRN-4120499
The complaint
Ms S complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) for declining her claim for stolen 
jewellery. She wants Covea to settle her claim. 
What happened
Ms S insured her home and contents with Covea. 
In late 2022, Ms S suffered a burglary and damage was caused to her home. Items of gold 
jewellery, which had been gifted to Ms S some years previously, were stolen. 
Ms S submitted a claim to Covea. 
Covea accepted that there had been a burglary and settled the damage parts of the claim. 
Covea requested evidence of the valuation of the jewellery and evidence that Ms S had 
owned it. 
She provided photographs of the jewellery sets, detailing the weight of the items, and 
photographs of her wearing the jewellery. She also provided a jewellery inventory written by 
a former family member some years earlier and a statement from the former family member, 
confirming that Ms S owned the items and that the weights detailed were accurate. She also 
obtained a valuation from a family jeweller based on the photographs. 
Covea commissioned its own valuation based on the photographs, which detailed the 
weights of some items. This assessed the values as higher than Ms Ss valuer had 
assessed. 
Covea contacted our service and asked our approach to accepting photographs as evidence 
of ownership. Our service advised that unless the photos appeared to be falsified or 
doctored that we would usually expect them to be accepted. 
Covea then declined Ms Ss claim and argued that the onus was on her to demonstrate the 
value and ownership and it said that she had not done this sufficiently. 
Ms S complained and Covea maintained its decision. 
Ms S then contacted us. Our investigator looked into this matter and recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. They felt that Ms S had done enough to demonstrate both ownership 
and weight (and therefore value) of the items and that the claim should be accepted. 
Covea did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the additional comments and arguments made by Covea and my 
colleagues thorough responses to these. I agree with my colleague and uphold the 
complaint. 
Ms S has responded openly and directly to the queries from Covea and has provided 
evidence showing that she owned the items and details of the weight of them. Additional 
information was provided from a credible source who holds a position of trust. I can see no 
reason for doubting this information. 
Covea has argued that it is not satisfied with the level of evidence and that it does not accept 
the valuation which was dated after the loss. It has referred to its policy terms which set out 
that the valuation should be of how much it was worth before the loss or damage. 
The term mentioned by Covea concerns up to date valuations being relevant to its 
assessment. This sort of term would usually be relevant where the items value may 
increase beyond any policy limits which require the items to be specified. It does not mean 
that the valuation would need to be dated immediately before the loss and so I do not 
consider it is relevant in this matter. 
There is no suggestion made here that the values exceeded the policy terms at the time of 
the loss, and as the valuation of Asian gold is based substantially on weight, there is enough 
information available to assess the values at the time of the loss. 
Both Ms Ss jeweller and Coveas assessor appraised the values in the context of the weight 
details and did not raise any concern that the weights may be wrong. I therefore understand 
that the weights are consistent with the photographic evidence and are accurate. 
I therefore think that Ms S has provided sufficient evidence of the information needed to 
assess value, and of ownership of the items which were stolen. 
Bearing in mind the principle of utmost good faith, I think Covea should accept and settle the 
claim, as recommended by my colleague. I consequently uphold Ms Ss complaint.  
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, Covea must settle Ms Ss claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. 
As there has now been a delay in settling the claim, and this is due to Coveas actions, and 
the value of gold has changed over this time, I consider that Covea should update the value 
of the lost items and settle the claim at the current value. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to:
Settle Ms Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms based on an up to date 
valuation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman