DRN-3263065
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that their home insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), 
caused delays to their claim which meant they lost rent and incurred council tax for an 
unrentable property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V owned a flat that they rented out. They said that when this was flooded in 
February 2019 they claimed to RSA and it sent its loss adjuster to assess the damage. Their 
claim was accepted, and Mr and Mrs V said it was agreed that repairs would go ahead, but it 
took until July 2020 for the work to be completed. Mr and Mrs V said this caused them 
financial loss as they were unable to rent the flat out during this time and were also paying 
council tax.
Mr and Mrs V said they had to chase the repairs for 18 months, causing them stress. And 
RSA wouldnt pay loss of rent as the flat was untenanted at the time of the flood, despite 
their explanation this was because they were refurbishing the property and there was no 
problem in finding tenants. Mr and Mrs V think they should be paid 12 months rent of 
£4,320, as the work should have been completed in five months and £466.66 for 12 months 
council tax.
RSA responded to Mr and Mrs Vs complaint for the period from July 2019 as it had paid 
£150 compensation up to then. RSA said the damage was extensive and repairs involved 
several third parties but there were avoidable delays for which it apologised. RSA said drying 
out was completed on 28 August, but repairs werent authorised until 14 October 2019. And 
then there was an issue with asbestos and a further scope of work had to be approved. 
Repairs began in January 2020 but had to await deliveries. RSA said work continued again 
in March, but was interrupted by the covid lockdown. It said the final decoration and repairs 
were completed mid-June with minor snagging to be resolved. RSA said as the flat wasnt 
tenanted for some months before the claim the policy doesnt cover loss of rent. RSA offered 
Mr and Mrs V £400 compensation for the avoidable delays and poor service it had caused. 
Mr and Mrs V werent satisfied with RSAs response to their complaint and brought it to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said there were both 
avoidable and unavoidable delays from July 2019 and she thought the compensation of 
£400 was reasonable. She said the policy didnt cover lost rent as the flat wasnt let out and 
Mr and Mrs V would have had to pay council tax on the property in any event.
Mr and Mrs V werent happy with the investigators conclusions and said they should be 
reimbursed for their lost rent and council tax due to RSAs delays. They requested an 
ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs V said that RSA should pay for 12 months rent as this was the period of 
avoidable delays. I have only considered the period from July 2019 as that is when RSA sent 
its first final response to their complaint at that stage, and Mr and Mrs Vs referral to our 
service is outside of the time allowed for us to consider that part of their complaint. 
I can well understand Mr and Mrs Vs frustration as they neared the end of the refurbishment 
of their property when a damaging escape of water occurred. Ive looked closely at the 
details of the claim and the timelines provided to see if there were avoidable delays or 
mistakes made that unfairly impacted on Mr and Mrs V. And then Ive looked at the policy to 
see if redress is due for loss of rent or in general terms for the distress and inconvenience of 
any delay. 
As Mr and Mrs V will know, large-scale escape of water claims such as theirs, which affected 
most of their property, involve multiple parties and take considerable time to resolve. Having 
said this, its beyond question there were delays caused by RSA and its agents that have 
had an impact on Mr and Mrs V. But I havent found that these were for the entire 12 months 
period from July 2019 to when the work was completed. 
RSA said covid lockdown and government restrictions were out of its control as was the 
presence of asbestos and the complexity of the claim meant it took much longer to complete. 
I can see all these factors played a part in the time taken to complete the claim and were 
likely unavoidable, but there were also avoidable delays for much of the period until work 
was finished in the Summer of 2021. And I have seen that RSA has acknowledged and 
apologised to Mr and Mrs V for these. 
As well as delays, I have also found examples of poor and non-existent communications 
from RSA and its agents to Mr and Mrs V. And a lack of overall control of the claim and 
progression when it was needed.
Mr and Mrs Vs policy states that loss of rent is covered, so long as, evidence is provided 
from an existing rental agreement or previous proven rental pattern. Ive no reason to doubt 
Mr and Mrs Vs assertion that in normal times it was easy to rent their property out and that it 
was normally let. But unfortunately, there was no rental agreement or let in place in the 
months before the claim and so the policy requirement isnt met. Consequently, I dont think 
it would be fair to require RSA to pay for loss of rent. That also applies to council tax, which 
Mr and Mrs V would have had to pay in any event.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs V for the stress of having to chase their claim and the 
considerable inconvenience to them of having to wait to re-let their property for a year longer 
than they anticipated. RSA has offered compensation of £400 to Mr and Mrs V. This is 
consistent with awards we have seen for complaints in similar circumstances and I think its 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint. If they havent already, I 
recommend that Mr and Mrs V tell RSA that they accept this compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman