DRN-2474947
The complaint
  Ms D and Mr H are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
Ms D and Mr H are being represented in this complaint by their own loss assessor. However, 
for ease, Ill refer to everyone as Ms D and Mr H.
What happened
Ms D and Mr H own a Grade II listed property. On 30 November 2019, the day their home 
insurance policy with AXA started, the property was severely damaged by fire. They reported 
this to AXA on 2 December 2019. And AXA appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim, 
and a fire expert to determine the cause of the fire.
On 12 December 2019, the fire expert declared the fire to be an accident, and AXA accepted 
the claim the same day. The following day they paid Ms D and Mr H £5,000 as an advance 
payment to purchase essential items. AXA paid an additional £5,000 on 19 December, to 
allow Ms D and Mr H to purchase further items, including white goods, bedding etc. A further 
£30,000 was paid in February 2020. All of these payments formed part of the contents claim.
Ms D and Mr H initially moved into temporary B&B accommodation, before the claim was 
even reported, and AXA paid for this. They say AXA offered them a two-bedroom flat while 
their house was being repaired, but they refused this and sourced a new static caravan 
instead. AXA say they never offered any specific alternative accommodation and say Ms D 
and Mr H were highly insistent on a static caravan as being their only suitable option.
Regardless of what was or wasnt specifically offered, AXA paid for the caravan and for it to 
be installed on site. Ms D and Mr H said the caravan now needs repairs to bring it to a 
satisfactory standard, and AXA asked them to provide estimates for the work. 
In February 2020, with the assistance of a loss assessor theyd instructed, Ms D and Mr H 
claimed the total value of the contents damaged in the fire was £145,711.21. But it wasnt 
until June 2020 when AXA made Ms D and Mr H a global contents offer of £110,000. 
Ms D and Mr H complained to AXA about the way their claim was being handled. AXA didnt 
uphold their complaint, so its been brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
 Ms D and Mr H have complained that:
The first loss adjuster was from a department who dealt with claims under £5,000.
AXAs loss adjusters have been rude and bullish.
There was a delay in paying the initial £5,000 advance.
The caravan needs repairs to bring it to an acceptable standard, and AXA havent 
carried out these repairs.
AXA want to retain ownership of the caravan once the property is habitable again.
Theyve had increased living costs because theyre living in a caravan, including 
increased heating costs and having to purchase white goods.
AXA took too long to make an offer of £110,000 for the contents, and this offer is too 
low.
AXA have refused to pay the costs of their loss assessor, or their loss of earnings.
Our investigator said AXA ideally shouldve initially sent a loss adjuster more suited to 
handling high value claims, but he also thought it was important AXA sent someone straight 
away. And as the first loss adjuster was only to assess the advance payment, he didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. The investigator also said that, once the fire expert had 
confirmed the fire was an accident, AXA paid out the advance payment without delay. He 
also thought AXA had been empathetic to the situation Ms D and Mr H were in. 
The investigator said that, under the terms of the policy, AXA were responsible for providing 
alternative accommodation. And, once the property was habitable, then Ms D and Mr H 
would have no further use for the caravan. So he didnt think it was unfair that AXA retained 
ownership of the caravan once it was no longer needed. He said that, if there are funds left 
in the alternative accommodation budget, then AXA should return the garden to a 
reasonable condition once the caravan had been removed. But, if Ms D and Mr H chose to 
buy the caravan off AXA, then theyre responsible for any remedial works to the garden.
AXA offered to inspect the caravan, and do any remedial works required, and the 
investigator thought this was reasonable. But he also said AXA should pay Ms D and Mr H 
the industry standard disturbance allowance - £10 per day per adult and £5 per day per child 
 to compensate them for their higher living costs.
The terms of AXAs policy said any damaged items shouldnt be destroyed or removed until 
AXA gave authority for this. But the damaged contents were removed when the rebuilding of 
the property started. The investigator recognised the position this put both parties in, and 
recommended AXA should provide a detailed breakdown of their contents offer in line with 
the terms of the policy, and any exclusions or limitations that may apply.
Finally, the terms of the policy said that AXA only needed to pay the costs of Ms D and Mr 
Hs loss assessor if they agreed to this first, which they didnt, and they wouldnt cover any 
loss of earnings. So, while the investigator thought AXA were reasonable in not paying these 
costs, he thought they should also pay Ms D and Mr H £750 to compensate them for the 
trouble and upset theyd been caused.
AXA didnt agree with the investigator. They didnt think the living costs for a caravan would 
be more than living in a six-bedroom Grade II listed property, so theyve said they dont think 
paying a disturbance allowance would be fair. But theyve said that theyd consider any 
evidence of increased costs or additional items that needed to be purchased, if Ms D and Mr 
H can provide this; the amount theyre asking for isnt fully supported by receipts supplied. 
AXA have also said that the policy only allows for £40,000 for alternative accommodation. 
So, with the purchase of, and repairs to, the caravan, there is little left to pay a disturbance 
allowance. So, AXA have said theyre prepared to pay Ms D and Mr H the balance of the 
accommodation allowance under the terms of the policy  just under £12,000. Ms D and Mr 
H could then deal with the caravan repairs themselves, and the balance could be put 
towards their increased living costs.
Finally AXA have said their policy requires Ms D and Mr H to validate their contents claim 
and, by disposing of the contents when they knew AXA were coming out to inspect them, 
this hasnt been possible. So they think the £110,000 global offer theyve made is fair.Ms D and Mr H also didnt agree with the investigator. While theyve agreed they should be 
paid the recommended disturbance allowance, they believe AXA should also pay their loss 
of earnings due to AXA not helping to first find any accommodation. then even equip, or 
install all the amnesties [sic] required for every day living  as per their policy!
Theyve also said the contents were available for inspection until 13 September 2020, and 
the building works started on 15 September. But AXA didnt come to inspect the contents 
until 22 September  10 months after the fire, and seven months after they were supplied 
with a full list of contents.  
So, because of whats happened, in addition to the disturbance allowance, they think AXA 
should pay them:
£2,129.92 because theyre unable to remortgage their property while its being 
rebuilt. This amount is the difference between what they now pay for their mortgage, 
and what they wouldve paid with a new lender, for the period January to April 2021.
£7,594.75 for the furniture, white goods etc. theyve purchased solely for the caravan 
and which they say wont be of any use once the house is habitable.
£4,792.52 heating costs, which they say is four-times higher in the caravan than in 
their property.
£1,800 for the garden to be put right after the caravan has been removed (to be paid 
upfront so they dont have to deal with AXA again once the property is habitable).
7.5% of the full and final settlement value of the claim, which is what theyre being 
charged by their agent, who only needed to be employed because of the 
unreasonable behaviour by AXA and their loss adjusters.
Ms D and Mr H would also like AXA to agree to remove the caravan within 10 days of them 
reoccupying the property (otherwise theyre entitled to charge AXA storage costs); and agree 
not to increase their insurance premiums until April 2021, at which point theyll take their 
insurance business elsewhere.
Finally theyve said that Mr H has injured himself on the back door of the caravan, and they 
want AXA to pay for a private consultation and any medical treatment that may be required.
Because neither party fully agreed with the investigator, this was been passed to me to 
decide.
However, while I was reviewing the considerable amount of evidence in this case, the 
situation changed. AXA offered to place Ms D and Mr H in a rented property and said if 
theyd let them know of one thats suitable for their needs, then AXA will meet the costs of 
this. However, Ms D and Mr H turned down this offer and opted to remain in the caravan. So 
AXA arranged for the repairs to the caravan to take place.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2020, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
My role is to consider whether AXA handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It 
isnt to re-underwrite the claim and say whether AXA should pay anything additional to Ms D 
and Mr H to settle either the buildings or contents parts of this.
Policy terms
Before I address the complaint itself, Id like to specify what I consider are the important 
terms of the insurance policy. When the policy was taken out, the property was declared as being owned outright by Ms D and Mr H, i.e. it was free of any mortgage. The buildings were 
insured for £500,000, and the contents insured for £140,000. However there were certain 
policy exclusions and limits for things such as high-risk items and electronic goods.  
The policy also stated that AXA would use approved suppliers to source and provide 
replacement goods. Where a cash settlement was offered, then AXA had the right to reduce 
this to take account of any supplier discount they may have received. And the policy was 
clear in that Ms D and Mr H werent to remove or destroy any damaged items (unless We 
ask You to do so) as We may need them.
The policy further stated that, if Ms D and Mr H were underinsured, then any claim settled 
would be reduced in proportion to the amount of underinsurance. The policy also clearly 
stated that Ms D and Mr H were not insured for loss of earnings or any costs or expenses 
unless [AXA] have agreed to pay then in advance. It also said if you cant live in the Home 
due to an Insured Loss, We will pay alternative accommodation costs up to a combined 
maximum of £40,000 per claim.
Ms D and Mr H were grossly underinsured when it came to the rebuilding value of both their 
property, and the outbuildings which didnt form part of this claim. So its reasonable AXA 
dealt with this underinsurance in line with the terms of the policy. However, dealing with the 
undervalue resulted in delays in things moving forward, especially because of the need for a 
tender process for the rebuilding works, and AXA having to negotiate a cash settlement 
because of the amount of undervalue. 
Because the property was listed, the involvement of a listed buildings officer added further 
delays. And the builders who won the tender werent able to start work on the property 
straight away, as they were committed to finishing another job. As these were things outside 
of AXAs control, I dont find them responsible for these delays.
Ms D and Mr H have said that, on 6 January 2020 (which Ive noted was less than four 
weeks after AXA accepted the claim), at our own cost we felt impelled to employ our own 
[loss adjuster] in an attempt to speed the process along and provide some stability to our 
claiming process. And they believe AXA should pay the costs theyve incurred as a result.
While I accept Ms D and Mr H had their reasons for doing this, I think it was very early in the 
claims process to say this was their only option to progress things; and they didnt get AXAs 
agreement to the costs. The policy is quite clear in that, unless any costs have been agreed 
in advance, then AXA arent responsible for paying these. So AXA havent acted outside of 
the terms of the policy by not paying these costs, and I wont be asking them to do so.
Ms D and Mr H have also said they lost earnings while trying to search for alternative 
accommodation (before theyd told AXA about the claim), and while trying to make the static 
caravan liveable (even though AXA wouldve offered them a rented property instead). The 
policys also clear that AXA wont pay any loss of earnings, so they havent acted outside of 
the terms of the policy by not paying this either. And I also wont be asking them to do so.
Contents claim
Ms D and Mr H were insured for £140,000 contents. And there were individual limits for high-
risk and other items within this amount. The contents claim Ms D and Mr H made was for 
£145,711.21. From reviewing this claim Ive seen that the combined value of the high-risk 
items exceeded the £5,000 insured limit, and certain electronic items also exceeded the 
£350 single item limit.Ive seen that, in assessing the contents claim, AXA queried some things, including why 
everything had been declared a total loss, that Mr H intended on restoring some items that 
were declared as a total loss, and that there were a number of electronic items valued at just 
below the £350 limit. Because of the value of the claim, I dont think AXA were unreasonable 
in asking these questions.
The contents offer wasnt made until June 2020  a global offer of £110,000. Because the 
building work hadnt started at this point, so any replacement contents purchased by Ms D 
and Mr H wouldve needed to be stored somewhere; I dont think the time it took for AXA to 
make this offer caused any inconvenience. Especially as AXA had already paid £40,000 for 
any short- and medium-term needs at this point.
After making this offer, AXA paid £70,000 to Ms D and Mr H, taking the contents payments 
made up to the global offer of £110,000.
The contents claim was above the sum insured. Some items claimed for would also be 
excluded because they exceeded the limits within the policy. And, because AXA offered a 
cash settlement rather than source and purchase replacement goods, the policy allowed 
them to reduce the sum paid to take account for any supplier discount they would otherwise 
have received. Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to offer a global 
settlement. And, while its not my role to re-underwrite the claim, I also dont think that the 
amount offered was so unreasonable that AXA need reassess the contents claim. 
Ms D and Mr H rejected the global offer, and AXA asked them to provide further 
substantiation of the claim before they could consider any increase. While they were 
provided with some more paperwork, AXA didnt consider this to be sufficient. So, at the 
insistence of Ms D and Mr H, in mid-August 2020, AXA appointed a loss adjuster for the 
contents claim. As Ms D and Mr H were disputing the global offer, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to do this.
On 3 September 2020, when he issued his view, the investigator said an inspection of the 
contents were needed before he could conclude if the global offer was fair. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, the contents loss adjuster offered to inspect the contents on 4, 7 or 8 
September, but was told a site visit couldnt be facilitated until the week commencing 14 
September. Because the contents loss adjuster wasnt able to attend that week, alternative 
dates were offered. And the contents loss adjuster arranged to visit the property on 23 
September to inspect the contents.
On 9 September AXA emailed Ms D and Mr H. This email said we fully expect that the 
contents will be in situ at the time of the inspection, scheduled, as you know, for 23rd 
September, some days after the building works commence. [Mr H] has been insistent that 
we validate the contents claim, and it is therefore not unreasonable to expect that said 
contents will be available for validation. Should it the be the case that the contents have 
been removed prior to the visit by [the contents loss adjusters], we will revert to the 
requirement for substantiation from [Mr H].
But Ms D and Mr H had the contents removed from site before the contents loss adjuster 
visited the property. And in the knowledge that theyd been specifically asked not to do this.
Ms D and Mr H said the contents were temporarily stored in the courtyard where their 
daughter plays and, because this created a health and safety issue, they felt they had no 
choice but to remove the contents before the inspection. But Ive not seen anything to show 
me that Ms D and Mr H told AXA they intended to do this; or that they made any attempt to 
rearrange the contents loss adjusters visit because of this. And the fact that the contents 
loss adjuster arrived on site a day earlier than agreed due to a date mix-up doesnt alter this.While Ms D and Mr H had provided some substantiation of the contents claim to AXA, this 
wasnt sufficient, and the contents loss adjuster was appointed. Given the contents of the 9 
September 2020 email, and that Ms D and Mr H removed the contents from site before the 
agreed inspection date, the burden fell back onto Ms D and Mr H to provide additional 
substantiation of the contents claim. And I havent seen theyve done this. Theyve only 
resubmitted the original paperwork.
Given these circumstances, I think its reasonable for AXA not to change the global offer 
they previously made. And I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
Loss adjusters
Its not disputed that the first loss adjuster AXA sent was from a department that dealt with 
claims under £5,000. And given the circumstances of the fire, the claim was most likely 
going to be above this amount. But I dont think it was inappropriate for AXA to send this loss 
adjuster. Just because they worked in a department dealing with lower value claims doesnt 
mean that they lack the empathy or understanding to initially deal with a higher value claim.
I think it was important for AXA to get someone on site as soon as possible, so they could 
assess Ms D and Mr Hs immediate needs. This was done. And, once the fire expert had 
confirmed the fire was accidental and AXA could accept the claim, the matter was 
transferred to the high loss department. I think this was a reasonable approach to take.
I appreciate there was a short delay in making the initial payment, to cover the essential 
items Ms D and Mr H needed. But AXA needed to know whether this was an insured event 
before they could accept the claim. Especially as the fire took place on the very day the 
policy started. And they couldnt make any payment until thisd been confirmed. The fire 
expert said the fire was accidental on 12 December 2019, and AXA made the initial payment 
the next day. I dont think was unreasonable.
AXA employed a third-party firm of loss adjusters to manage the claim. Ms D and Mr H have 
said they were rude and bullish. Because of the nature of the claim, some of the interactions 
wouldve been verbal. And I dont have any recordings of what was said, or how things were 
said. And I cant say AXA did anything wrong just because theres no recordings on any 
conversations. But I have reviewed and considered the written communication Ive seen. 
And from this, I agree with the investigator that the loss adjusters dealt with the matter 
empathetically. Ive not seen anything to show me they were rude or bullish.
The static caravan
The terms of the policy say that Ms D and Mr H are entitled to alternative accommodation 
while their property is uninhabitable. But Ms D and Mr H didnt think a rented property would 
be equivalent to 6-bedroom house with garden and courtyard and they asked for a static 
caravan theyd sourced to be sited in the garden. AXA agreed to this, but Ive noted Ms D 
and Mr H arranged for the caravan to be delivered before AXA had approved and made 
payment to the supplier. Their decision caused Ms D and Mr H some distress and 
inconvenience while they were waiting for AXA to approve and make payment.
If I were to say that Ms D and Mr H own the static caravan, then theyre responsible for its 
upkeep, its eventual removal and disposal, and for returning the garden to its original 
condition after removal. But, if Ms D and Mr H had taken up the offer of a rented property, 
the ownership of this wouldnt have transferred to Ms D and Mr H once their property was 
habitable again. So its only fair that the same principles apply to the static caravan. Because of this, AXA retain ownership of the caravan. And theyre responsible for the repairs; and for 
its eventual removal, including returning the garden to its original condition.   
Ive seen the receipts Ms D and Mr H have sent in to show their increased living expenses 
while in the caravan. While some of these are for energy costs, some are for white goods, 
mattresses, sheets, kitchen utensils etc. AXA paid them £5,000 on 19 December 2019, and 
a then further £35,000, to allow them to purchase these items.
And I also have to consider that AXA offered Ms D and Mr H a rented property, both initially 
and again in November 2020, where some of these additional expenses either wouldnt have 
been incurred or wouldve been substantially lower if they had. But Ms D and Mr H refused 
these offers and insisted on a static caravan on-site instead.
Its not disputed that the caravan requires some repairs, and Im pleased to see that AXA 
have arranged to get these done. But, after the investigator had issued his view, AXA had 
also offered to pay Ms D and Mr H the balance of the accommodation allowance (which then 
stood at around £12,000) so they could arrange for the repairs themselves and have the 
balance towards their additional expenses.
Given these two different offers, what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances is 
that, once the caravan repairs are complete and AXA have paid for these, they pay Ms D 
and Mr H whats left of the accommodation allowance. This payment will then help to cover 
any additional expenses Ms D and Mr H may incur, especially additional heating costs over 
the winter. And by paying this as a lump sum, AXA wouldnt be required to pay the 
disturbance allowance recommended by the investigator.
Mr H has also said hes suffered a personal injury while in the caravan, and he holds AXA 
responsible. This would need to be dealt with by way of a separate personal injury claim, so 
it doesnt form part of my assessment or decision. For that reason I wont comment further 
on this.
Mortgage costs
From looking at the information Ms D and Mr H declared when they took out the policy with 
AXA, they said they owned this outright i.e. it was free of any mortgage or other secured 
lending. Although I appreciate this may have been a misunderstanding of the question, and 
they meant that the property wasnt rented and they owned it (with the help of an outstanding 
mortgage). And from what Ms D and Mr H have said, I understand their existing mortgage 
deal expires in December 2020.
I understand that Ms D and Mr H want to keep their mortgage costs as low as possible, and 
moving to another lender is difficult, if not impossible, while the property is being rebuilt. But 
for me to say AXA are responsible for any mortgage costs, Id have to say they were wholly 
responsible for any delays which meant the work on the property wasnt completed by 
December 2020 where it otherwise wouldve been.
For the reasons already stated  the underinsurance and the requirement for listed building 
consent  I dont think AXA are responsible for the delays. There was nothing wholly within 
their control that they couldve done, but didnt, that wouldve meant rebuilding works would 
be completed by December 2020. So I wont be asking them to pay any mortgage costs.
But, while this means that Ms D and Mr H may not be able to move to another lender, it 
doesnt necessarily mean they cant switch to another deal with their existing lender.
Trouble and upsetThis is clearly a distressing time for Ms D and Mr H. To lose their home to a fire when they 
had a young child and Ms D heavily pregnant mustve been extremely difficult. But some of 
the stress they suffered wouldve been cause by the situation they found themselves in. 
However, in recommending any payment, I can only consider any additional distress, 
inconvenience and/or upset caused by the actions, or lack of actions, of AXA. 
For the reasons stared above, I dont think that AXA failed to do anything they shouldve 
done, or that they did something they shouldnt, that caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied that the distress and inconvenience Ms D and Mr H have 
suffered, and continue to suffer, is as a direct result of the situation theyve unfortunately 
found themselves in, which is neither their fault nor AXAs. So I wont be recommending AXA 
pay then anything additional for this.
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Ms D and Mr Hs complaint. AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should
Remove the static caravan from site once the property is habitable, remove any 
services thatve been installed, and restore the ground on which the caravan was 
sitting to the condition it was before the caravan was sited.
Once the caravan repairs have been completed, pay Ms D and Mr H the remaining 
balance of the accommodation allowance.
Responses
Ms D and Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision. They were unhappy the person 
dealing with their claim at AXAs loss adjusters moved to another company and took their 
case with him. They feel that shows AXA were dissatisfied with how their loss adjusters were 
dealing with matters.
Theyve said any alternative accommodation AXA offered them, or asked them to find, was 
unsuitable for their needs. So a static caravan on-site was the only viable option for them. 
And the white goods theyve purchased for the temporary accommodation are unsuitable to 
be relocated into their home (once rebuilt) because theyre too small. 
Theyve also said that AXA will recover £10,000 when they sell the static caravan. So they 
feel this £10,000 should be added to the remaining accommodation allowance and paid to 
them to cover our expenses in full. This is because, if theyd taken the option of rented 
accommodation, then AXA wouldnt have made this recovery.
Ms D and Mr H want a complete breakdown of the global offer made by AXA, as they feel all 
the information theyve provided is sufficient to prove their claim. They also feel 6-months to 
make a global offer was too long. With regards to the disposal of the contents, Ms D and Mr 
H have said that, when AXA made the global offer, they didnt tell them not to dispose of the 
damaged contents. 
Ms D and Mr H feel that AXA have delayed the rebuilding process, because the tender 
process and building consents were all in place in June 2020. And, with a quoted rebuild 
time of 6-months, they shouldve been able to move back into the property in December 
2020. And this hasnt happened.
AXA also disagreed with my provisional decision. They pointed out Id referred to Ms Ds and 
Mr Hs representative in this claim as a loss adjuster, when it was in fact a loss assessor. I 
apologise for any confusion caused by this error and Ive corrected this in my final decision 
(with the exception of any references in the copy of my provisional decision).AXA have also said Ms D and Mr H sourced a static caravan because any alternative 
accommodation was unsuitable for their needs. And, when the scale of damage became 
apparent, the matter was moved from the first loss adjuster to their Major and Complex Loss 
Adjuster team, in line with their standard procedure.
But AXA have said the alternative accommodation allowance is £40,000, and the cost of 
making good the site after the caravan has been removed should come out of this 
allowance, and not be in addition to this.
In addition to the above, the progress of this claim is a fluid situation, and the situation has 
changed since I issued my provisional decision. AXA have said that, when the contractor 
contacted Ms D and Mr H to arrange for the repairs theyd asked to be done on the caravan, 
they told him they only wanted him to do some of the work, not all of it. 
AXA have also said that the contractor wasnt prepared to do the work on a piecemeal basis 
and would refuse to carry out any work that didnt involve the appropriate gas and electrical 
certification. But Ms D and Mr H have said they want to do some of the repair work 
themselves. And, in response to my provisional decision theyve said we will wait until AXA 
pay us the remaining balance and carry the repairs then.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Im in agreement that AXA allowing the claim to be moved from one company to another 
could be considered unusual. But I dont agree this means AXA mustve been dissatisfied 
with how their loss adjusters were dealing with matters. A large company like AXA will deal 
with a number of different loss adjusters when dealing with the volume of claims they 
receive. And if the person dealing with a claim at company one moves to company two, and 
company two is also one that AXA use, then it makes sense that the claim stays with the 
person who has full knowledge of whats happened. This keeps continuity and avoids any 
delays that may otherwise have occurred while someone new got up to speed with events.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the global contents offer was reasonable 
in the circumstances. Ms D and Mr H were insured for £140,000 and put in a claim for 
£145,711.21. The claim exceeded the policy limits in certain areas and, as the claim was 
more than the sum insured, AXA were entitled to pay a pro-rata amount. And, when settling 
in cash rather than goods, AXA were also entitled to reduce the payment by any supplier 
discount they may have received. 
AXA paid 78.5% of the contents claim which, given the above, I still consider reasonable. 
And, because Ms D and Mr H had already been given £40,000 to cover their immediate 
needs, I dont consider that the delay in paying the remaining £70,000 (when the property 
hadnt been rebuilt at that stage so Ms D and Mr H couldnt have purchased all of the 
contents for it, as theyd have nowhere to put them) disadvantaged Ms D and Mr H at all.
But, when Ms D and Mr H didnt agree with the global offer, AXA arranged for a contents 
loss adjuster to inspect the damaged contents. AXA didnt tell Ms D and Mr H not to dispose 
of the contents when they made the global offer. But this was in the policy terms. And, once 
Ms D and Mr H had rejected the global offer, and wanted to challenge this, AXA did tell them 
not to dispose of the damaged contents. This was done in an email of 9 September 2020. Ms D and Mr H then disposed of the damaged contents around 15 September 2020, before 
the contents loss adjusters visit on 22 September 2020 (a visit which had actually been 
arranged for 23 September 2020). And the contents loss adjuster had offered multiple dates 
to visit the site before theyd disposed of the contents, which Ms D and Mr H said werent 
acceptable to them.
So I cant say that Ms D and Mr H werent aware that the damaged contents needed to be 
inspected for the global offer to be reconsidered. And by them taking a specific action which 
meant that this couldnt happen, I remain of the opinion that AXA maintaining the global offer 
was fair in the circumstances.
I dont dispute that the tender process and building consents were all in place by June 2020. 
So, with a rebuild time of around 6-months, the property couldve been habitable by 
December 2020. Except the builders who won the tender werent able to start work on site 
until mid-September 2020 because they were committed to another job. So I dont agree that 
AXA have caused delays meaning the rebuild wasnt complete in December 2020.
When the caravan is removed from the site, AXA have confirmed theyll look to get the best 
residual value we can for it once it is no longer needed. Ms D and Mr H think this will be 
£10,000, and also think they should be given this amount now. But I cant say how much the 
caravan will be sold for once its no longer needed. So I cant say its fair to ask AXA to pay 
Ms D and Mr H the caravan value now. And, because they wouldnt have received any 
additional payment had they been in rented accommodation, then I also dont think its fair 
that AXA should pay them the value of the caravan when its been sold.
But Im aware that AXA will recover some money from the sale of the caravan, and this 
wouldnt have been the case if Ms D and Mr H had gone into rented accommodation. So, 
given these circumstances, this amount should be considered in addition to the £40,000 
accommodation allowance, and used to make good the site once the caravan has been 
removed. So, to be clear, for this reason I dont think the cost of making good the site should 
come out of the accommodation allowance.
Mr provisional decision said that AXA should pay for the repairs to the caravan, and then pay 
the remaining accommodation allowance to Ms D and Mr H. But the situation has changed 
since I said this, and Ms D and Mr H want to sort out some or all of the caravan repairs 
themselves. So, in the circumstances, I think its only fair that AXA pay Ms D and Mr H the 
remaining accommodation allowance now, and Ms D and Mr H become responsible for the 
cost of any caravan repairs that are needed. And because this doesnt alter the actual 
amount Id asked AXA to pay, only who they pay this to, I wont be issuing a second 
provision decision for this minor change.
Putting things right
  For the reasons explained above AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
Remove the static caravan from site once the property is habitable, remove any 
services thatve been installed, and restore the ground on which the caravan was 
sitting to the condition it was before the caravan was sited.
Once any caravan repairs thatve already been completed (if any) have been paid 
for, pay Ms D and Mr H the remaining balance of the £40,000 accommodation 
allowance.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I uphold Ms D and Mr Hs complaint. AXA Insurance UK 
Plc must follow my directions above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman