DRN-3823454
The complaint
Mr W complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] has unfairly settled a claim 
hes made on his buildings insurance policy following a leak from a drainage pipe.
What happened
Mr W is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to Mr W 
and RSA include the actions of respective representatives and agents unless stated 
otherwise. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here. 
Mr W lives in a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA.
One of Mr Ws relatives contacted RSA to let it know about sewage leaking from a 
drainage pipe at his property. Remedial work had already been undertaken at a cost 
of £2,735 and Mr W wanted to claim for reimbursement of the cost.
RSA accepted the claim and appointed an agent to validate it. It declined to pay the 
whole claim as it hadnt had the opportunity to attend the property before the work 
was completed. Based on the information available, it said it would have only had to 
replace a smaller proportion of the pipe and so it initially offered a settlement of £227 
less the £100 policy excess. 
Mr W complained about this and RSA subsequently increased the offer to £470 less 
the excess as it said it would have incurred investigation costs if it had attended the 
property and these had been missed off the original figure.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this Service. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold it, saying that RSA hadnt been given the opportunity to inspect the 
damage itself before the work was undertaken and so it was reasonable it relied on 
its expert opinion on the extent of the work required based on the evidence it had 
available.
Mr W asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on the policy, the onus is on the consumer to show the claim is 
covered by the policy terms.
In this case, RSA accepted Mr Ws claim, so I dont need to comment further on that. 
The issue in hand is the extent of the work covered by the policy and the amount of 
the resultant settlement and that is the focus of my decision.
The terms of an insurance policy define what the parties can expect from the cover. 
Im unlikely to tell an insurer to do something its not required to under the policy 
terms.
Ive considered the policy terms and under the How to make a claim section is the 
following:
Our approach to claims is to repair or replace lost or damaged property 
where we consider it appropriate. And weve built a network of contractors, 
repairers and product suppliers dedicated to providing this service.
If instead we agree to pay a cash settlement where we couldve offered repair 
or replacement, the payment wont normally exceed the amount wed have 
paid our contractor, repairer or supplier.
In my experience, this is common wording across many buildings insurance policies.
In her testimony, Mr Ws representative said the work had to be undertaken as a 
matter of urgency due to the potential health impact on Mr W. So, they employed a 
local contractor to undertake it and only contacted RSA after the work had been 
completed. 
Generally, insurers expect to be able to inspect damage and assess the extent of 
their liability under a claim and this isnt unreasonable. For obvious reasons, this is 
much easier before remedial work is undertaken. Where the work has already been 
completed  as it has here  then I would expect the insurer to consider the evidence 
available to decide what work would likely have been required and covered under the 
policy.
Mr Ws contractors supplied a number of photos, together with a copy invoice and a 
brief description of the work undertaken, which included the replacement of a seven-
metre length of drainage pipe. RSA passed this information to its own expert to 
establish what work would have been covered under the policy and what this would 
have cost.
Its expert said it would have only excavated and replaced a one metre length of pipe 
which contained the obstruction and it saw no reason why it was necessary for the 
seven-metre run of pipe to have been replaced. RSAs expert requested further 
evidence from Mr Ws contractor such as CCTV footage of the drain survey and 
scope of works to help it assess the damage but none was forthcoming. 
As the work had already been undertaken, there wasnt an opportunity for RSA to 
undertake the repairs itself and it was left with little option other than to cash settle 
the claim. In line with the policy terms Ive detailed above, Im satisfied it was entitled 
to do this at the cost it would have incurred if its own contractor had undertaken the 
work.
So, RSA settled the claim based on the opinion of its expert about the extent of work 
and cost covered under the policy terms, having assessed the evidence it had 
available to it. I think it was reasonable RSA relied on the opinion of its expert in 
reaching the settlement it did. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me the additional work undertaken  
including replacement of the seven-metre length of pipe  was required as a result of 
accidental damage and so would have been covered under the policy terms. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied RSA settled the claim fairly and 
in line with the policy terms so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman