DRN-1696188
The complaint
Miss A complains that, in 2010, HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a package bank account 
(PBA) and didnt tell her about changes to the account in 2014. 
What happened
In 2010, Miss A agreed to change her fee-free HSBC bank account into an Advance PBA 
costing £12.95 per month. The account came with various benefits, including worldwide 
family travel insurance, roadside breakdown, a preferential overdraft rate, and free 
worldwide cash withdrawals.
In 2014 HSBC separated out the insurance benefits. The bank account became free (with 
certain conditions) and instead the insurance cover was charged separately at £9.95 per 
month. Mobile phone insurance was added to the insurance package. 
Miss A says several of the insurance products were of no use to her, and she didnt know 
she had them. She says its unfair that, in 2014, HSBC made it so she had to opt out of the 
insurance package, rather than getting her to opt in. She says she never received the letter 
telling her about the changes. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss A didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive kept 
that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Original sale of the PBA in 2010
Miss A says she took the PBA in 2010 because she wanted to use the overdraft benefits that 
came with it. She isnt saying she was unaware of the fee, or that she thinks that the fee in 
2010 was unreasonable. However, Ive still checked to see whether the overall sale of the 
PBA was unfair in 2010. In doing that, Ive looked at whether HSBC advised Miss A to take 
the PBA, telling her it was a good fit for her individual circumstances  thats what we call an 
advised sale. Or whether instead it just told Miss A about the PBA and left it to her to 
decide if it suited her needs. 
HSBC says it doesnt now know how the PBA was sold to Miss A; but Miss A says that it 
was sold to her by phone. She seems quite clear about that, so I think shes probably 
remembering this accurately. 
HSBC has said the sale wasnt an advised one. But from what we know about how HSBC 
sold PBAs by phone in 2010, it seems its adviser would have asked a number of detailed 
questions before mentioning the PBA  so I think its likely a customer would think HSBC 
was making a personal recommendation of the PBA. So Ive treated this as though it was an 
advised sale. 
This means HSBC had to reach a higher standard, in that it had to make sure the PBA was a 
reasonable fit for Miss As circumstances. And, from what I can see from her 
circumstances at the time, I cant say that it wasnt. I say this because:
Miss A has said she wanted the PBA anyway at the time, because of the overdraft 
benefits. 
Shes said she travelled abroad occasionally  and this means she could have made 
use of the travel insurance. 
There were some things that she wouldnt have used, such as the breakdown cover. 
But that doesnt mean the other parts of the PBA wouldnt have made it useful 
overall. 
So I think a recommendation by HSBC of the PBA would have been reasonable. It would 
then be for Miss A to decide whether she wanted to take it.
Miss A says she had no idea that the Advance account came with insurance benefits. But I 
think its likely that the HSBC representative would have focused on telling her about these 
during the sales call, as they were generally the main attractions of the account. Whilst 
Miss A might have been focused on the banking benefits, I think its more likely than not that 
she was told about the insurance benefits in 2010.
Additionally, I think its likely HSBC explained the monthly cost during the phone call; but 
even if it didnt do this properly, I dont think the overall cost would have put Miss A off the 
PBA, given that she wanted it for the overdraft benefits, and that some of the insurance was 
potentially useful to her. 
I dont know if HSBC told her about the restrictions in claiming (exclusions); but it doesnt 
look like these would have affected Miss A significantly. And it looks like she was eligible for 
the insurances, so would have been able to make a claim. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC mis-sold the PBA in 2010.  
Changes to the PBA in 2014
Miss As main complaint is clearly about what happened in 2014.  She had been paying 
£12.95 per month for the PBA up until then. But in 2014, HSBC decided to separate off what 
could be called the banking features of the account from the insurance features. It decided 
to make the banking parts free of fees, including a continuation of such things as preferential 
rates (as long as you continued to pay in £1750 each month). But it continued to charge for 
the insurance benefits separately, for a reduced fee of £9.95 per month. It says it wrote to its 
affected customers to tell them about the changes, and that they would now be able to 
cancel the insurance parts of the previous PBA. Ive seen a copy of the standard letter it sent 
at the time, and I think its fairly clear.
Miss A says that, as a result of the changes in 2014, HSBC has effectively sold her 
something without her consent, by making her opt out to avoid a charge. I dont think thats a 
fair way of describing it. Miss A had accepted that she was paying £12.95 per month for the 
PBA up until then. The change in 2014 was effectively a repackaging of roughly the same product, but now with a lower fee and the option to avoid that fee altogether. I dont think she 
was sold anything by stealth or treated unfairly. 
Miss A also says she didnt get the letter telling her about the change, and so didnt know 
she could opt out. Ive seen screenshots of HSBCs records and this shows that a letter was 
sent to Miss A in August 2014, to the address she had given them. The sending of these 
types of letter is automated by the banks computer systems, so I think its more likely than 
not the letter went out, and to the address Miss A had given HSBC. 
I can completely understand why Miss A feels aggrieved that, over several years from 2014, 
she paid a monthly charge for insurance she didnt want, not realising she could now avoid 
the fees. But I think HSBC took reasonable steps to tell Miss A about the changes, and to 
give her the opportunity to reduce her charges if she didnt want the insurance package. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman