DRN-3999786
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
On 28 January 2022, Mr G took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a used car. 
At that time, the car was just over four years old and had travelled approximately 12,167 
miles. The cash price was £20,950.
Mr G says that, within a week of collecting it, he was disappointed to discover the cars fuel 
economy was poor and it had stored fault codes. He complained to the dealer, who 
investigated the problem and replaced the tank vent valve. Mr G has told us that he was left 
without a car over the weekend whilst this was fixed. He says he had to pay for a taxi to the 
dealership to collect the car on 21 February 2022.
Mr G says that, on 13 April 2022, the car developed a severe misfire and went into limp 
mode whilst he was driving on the motorway. He says he was stranded at a motorway 
service station for four hours, before he was able to drive home in a rental vehicle. The car 
was recovered back to the dealer, who replaced a faulty spark plug. 
Mr G says that, when the car was returned to him three days later, he compared the health 
check reports the dealers technician had completed on 17 February and 14 April 2022. He 
noticed a discrepancy in the recorded thickness of the brake pads. He felt this showed a 
continued lack of due care and attention by the dealers service department.
On 19 April 2022, Mr G contacted BMWFS to raise a complaint. He said he wanted to reject 
the car and end the finance agreement due to the problems hed had with it. BMWFS didnt 
uphold his complaint, so one of our investigators looked into what had happened.  
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G provided more information, 
stressing that he believed the car had been supplied to him with existing faults, in breach of 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
Having reviewed things again, our investigator said she didnt think the car had been of 
satisfactory quality when BMWFS supplied it to Mr G. But she was satisfied that hed 
accepted repairs, which had been successful. So, she didnt think he had the right to reject 
the car. 
The investigator thought BMWFS should reimburse Mr G £15.15 to cover his taxi fare. And 
she said they should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr G didnt agree that hed accepted a repair  he said this was the only option the dealer 
had offered him. He said the fact that hed raised a complaint within a few days of the car 
being returned suggested he didnt accept the repairs as satisfactory. 
BMWFS accepted the investigators view as to how the complaint should be resolved. But as 
Mr G didnt agree, the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement, so this service can consider complaints 
relating to it. Under this type of agreement, BMWFS is also the supplier of the car and is 
therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. It explains that things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over four years old and had covered around 
12,167 miles when it was supplied to Mr G. It cost £20,950, which is significantly less than it 
wouldve cost when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same 
standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts of the car to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I do think theyd still 
expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be 
able to drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
It isnt disputed that there have been two issues with the car since it was supplied to Mr G. 
Ive seen evidence showing it went back to the dealer within the first month to investigate his 
concerns about poor fuel economy and stored fault codes. Ive seen a copy of the dealers 
health check and technicians report dated 17 February 2022, confirming the tank vent valve 
was replaced and faults were cleared. The health check records the car to have covered 
around 12,550 miles at that time.
Given how quickly this first fault came to light, I think it most likely that it was already present 
when BMWFS supplied the car. Bearing in mind this was a used car, the fact that it was 
supplied with one or more minor faults doesnt necessarily mean it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I havent seen anything to confirm whether the fault with the tank vent valve was a 
significant problem. But given the price Mr G paid for this car, Ill assume that it was. 
Ive seen evidence confirming the car went back to the dealer again around two months 
later, after it developed a severe misfire. Ive seen a copy of the dealers health check and 
technicians report dated 16 April 2022. The health check records the car to have covered 
around 14,083 miles at that time.  The technicians reports says found spark plug insulation 
broken away from main body. It confirms the technician replaced the spark plug and cleared 
a fault. Spark plugs are items that require replacement from time to time, due to normal wear and 
tear. Mr G has shown us a copy of an entry in the cars service history dated 20 November 
2021, when the car was recorded to have covered 12,168 miles. This shows a service was 
carried out, which included spark plugs. So, Im satisfied that the spark plugs were likely to 
have been replaced shortly before Mr G got the car. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr G had less than three months and 2,000 miles use of the 
car by the time the spark plug was found to have failed. So, Im satisfied that this problem 
was most likely to have been present or developing when he got the car. 
I consider this to have been a significant issue because Mr G has told us the car went into 
limp mode, leaving him stranded at a motorway service station. So, I dont consider the car 
to have been of satisfactory quality when BMWFS supplied it.
The CRA sets out rights for consumers whove been supplied with goods that arent of 
satisfactory quality - and explains when those rights are available. The available remedies 
include the right to a repair. The CRA says that, if the goods still dont conform to the 
contract after one repair, the consumer has a final right to reject the goods. But section 20 of 
the CRA explains that:
The right to reject is exercised if the consumer indicates to the trader that the consumer 
is rejecting the goods and treating the contract as at an end.
The indication may be something the consumer says or does, but it must be clear enough 
to be understood by the trader.
Mr G has told us that, after the car broke down on 13 April 2022, it was recovered to the 
dealer where the fault was investigated and repaired. In the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, I think its reasonable to assume Mr G agreed to this. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
he gave any indication that he wanted to reject the car at that time.
Mr G has told us that the car was returned to him on 16 April 2022 after the repair was 
completed. He says he became concerned because he discovered discrepancies in the 
dealers health check reports. The evidence provided by both parties confirms Mr G told 
BMWFS he wanted to reject the car three days after it was returned to him. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest there was a fault with the car after the second repair. So, 
although I appreciate that Mr G has lost confidence in the car, Im not persuaded that it was 
of unsatisfactory quality when he complained to BMWFS on 19 April 2022. So, I dont think 
he had the right to reject the car at that point. And I dont think it would be fair for me to direct 
BMWFS to allow Mr G to reject the car after the fault had been successfully repaired. 
Mr G has told us that hes incurred some additional cost due to the car having to go back to 
the dealer for repairs. He says the dealer wasnt able to provide a courtesy car whilst the first 
repair was carried out, so he had to pay for a taxi. I think its fair that BMWFS should 
reimburse him for this. 
Although Mr G didnt have to pay for the car to be recovered after it broke down in April 
2022, I think that situation would have been stressful and inconvenient. Hes told us that he 
was stranded at a motorway service station for four hours before he could continue his 
journey. And having raised a complaint to BMWFS, he waited until August 2022 for a 
response. 
I think BMWFS should pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Reimburse Mr G £15.15 to cover the taxi fare he paid on 21 February 2022, plus 
interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement at 8% simple 
per year.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman