DRN-2942171
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Northern Bank Limited (Danske Bank) wouldnt allow him to withdraw
cash over the counter even though the amount that hed requested was below the advertised
cash withdrawal limit. Mr F is also unhappy at how branch staff, including the manager,
spoke to him regarding his cash withdrawal request.  
What happened
Mr F visited his local branch of Danske Bank and asked to withdraw £2,000. The teller asked
Mr F why he was withdrawing such a sum of money, to which Mr F answered that he was
going on holiday and was withdrawing the money as holiday spending money. At this point
the teller declined to service Mr Fs withdrawal request and advised Mr F to withdraw the
money from ATMs at his holiday destination.
Mr F wasnt happy about this, especially as there was a sign in branch confirming that the
counter withdrawal limit was £2,500 and because he was trying to withdraw the money in the
UK specifically to avoid overseas ATM charges. So, Mr F asked to speak with the branch
manager. However, when the branch manager spoke with Mr F, he did so in front of other
staff and branch customers and told Mr F that he wasnt allowed to withdraw the money
because they suspected that he might be money laundering.
Mr F raised a complaint. Danske Bank looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they noted that new
policies had been implemented which empowered tellers with the ability to decline over the
counter withdrawals if they felt that money laundering might potentially be taking place.
Danske Bank also couldnt corroborate Mr Fs claims about how he had been spoken to in
branch. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Danske Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Danske
Bank were within their rights to refuse Mr Fs withdrawal request, and so they also didnt
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 June 2021 as follows:
Its understandable that Mr F would have been frustrated when his request to 
withdraw spending money for his overseas holiday was with declined, especially 
given that the amount he was requesting was less than Danske Banks stated 
counter withdrawal limit amount.
Danske Bank have explained to this service that Mr Fs withdrawal request was 
declined on the basis of money laundering regulations which allow bank tellers to 
decline cash withdrawal requests where they believe that a risk of money laundering 
exists.
However, having reviewed all the evidence and information provided to me by 
Danske Bank, I dont feel that theyve been able to provide a reasonable explanation 
as to why it was felt that Mr Fs stated withdrawal purpose  as spending money for 
an overseas holiday  should have been considered as a money laundering risk.
As such its difficult not to conclude that Mr F has been treated unfairly in this 
instance, and while I understand that banks have a responsibility to adhere to money 
laundering regulations, its also incumbent on banks not to apply such regulations 
over zealously such that a customer is unfairly denied access to their own money as 
a result. 
In addition, while Danske Bank have been unable to confirm the nature of the 
conversation between Mr F and their staff in branch, Mr F has provided a clear 
recollection of events, which include speaking with the branch manager and being 
advised, in the presence of other branch staff and customers, that his withdrawal was 
being declined on the basis of potential money laundering  an event which Mr F 
found understandably distressing.
In instances where the testimony of one party is disputed by another, as is the case 
here, I have to decide what I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance I find Mr Fs testimony to be persuasive, and I note that Danske 
Banks complaint notes confirm that Mr F was disgusted by the way I was treated by 
both the counter staff and the manager when I tried to withdraw my own money.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Danske Bank was wanting here, but it 
follows from the above that my provisional decision will be that I am upholding this 
complaint in Mr Fs favour.
I note that Mr F was able to withdraw the required money from a different Danske 
Branch in smaller transactions, and so I dont consider there to have been any 
material financial loss to Mr F. However, I do consider that Mr F was unnecessarily 
distresses and inconvenienced by this matter, and so my provisional instruction to 
Danske Bank will be that they must make a payment to Mr F of £75 as compensation 
for this.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr F and Danske Bank the opportunity to 
provide any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to a final decision.
Danske Bank advised that they didnt agree with the reasoning of my provisional decision 
and noted that their cash withdrawal policy is clear and that unless a customer is able to 
provide a robust explanation as to why they require sterling cash as opposed to paying via 
another means then they retain the right to refuse the request. 
However, Mr F had provided an explanation as to why he wanted to withdraw the money  
for cash which he intended to take on holiday with him  and I find it difficult to accept Dansk 
Banks reasoning or concerns here, especially as they allowed Mr F to draw the money he 
wanted in smaller amounts from another Danske Bank branch. As such, Danskes refusal to allow Mr F to withdraw his money in the first instance does seem to me to be an over 
zealous application of the banks policy which has, in this instance, led to an unfair outcome 
as a result.
In his response to my provisional decision letter, Mr F has stated that he would still like an 
explanation from Danske Bank as to what criteria they used to decline the withdrawal. I can 
appreciate Mr Fs position here, but I wouldnt consider asking the bank to provide the 
criteria that they use when assessing potential money laundering as the very nature and 
purpose of this criteria means that it shouldnt be in the public domain.
Mr F has also asked how he can be assured that his being declined a cash withdrawal by 
Danske Bank wont happen again. I cant guarantee that Mr F being declined a cash 
withdrawal wont happen again, or that it shouldnt happen again, and I wouldnt consider 
asking Danske Bank to provide such guarantees either. Indeed, its possible that different a 
situation might occur in the future where I would consider it appropriate for Danske Bank to 
decline a request for a cash withdrawal, and it must be noted that this review concerns only 
the specific events described above where Mr F was declined a cash withdrawal, and which 
I feel wasnt fair in this instance.
Mr F has also stated that he doesnt feel that the £75 compensation I provisionally instructed 
Danske Bank to pay is a fair amount, given what happened, and that a larger payment of 
compensation should be instructed.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as such by someone else. However, while I 
appreciate that Mr F may disagree, the £75 compensation payment that I provisionally 
instructed Danske Bank to make does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
As such, having considered the responses from both Mr F and Danske Bank, Im satisfied 
that the outcome that I arrived at in my provisional decision remains a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what happened here, and my final decision will a confirmation of that 
provisional decision accordingly.
Putting things right
Danske Bank must make a payment of £75 to Mr F.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Northern Bank Limited (Danske 
Bank) on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman