DRN-2666996
The complaint
 Mrs E complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Alphera.
After around 4 months the car broke down. Mrs E contacted the broker and Alphera, and an 
independent inspection of the car was arranged. The inspection found that there was a fault 
with the gearbox which and been caused by wear and tear and concluded that the fault 
wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
On the basis of the findings of the inspection, Alphera rejected Mrs Es complaint and said it 
wouldnt pay for repairs.
Mrs E contacted the manufacture and was successful in having the car repaired under a 
goodwill scheme at no cost to her. Repairs were completed in November 2019. 
Mrs E stopped monthly payments towards her finance agreement in August 2019. She says 
this was because she discovered that the car had two previous owners instead of one, and 
falt that the car had been misrepresented.
Alphera tried to repossess the car. It later said this was in error as it had previously agreed 
to hold off any repossession activity. Alphera terminated the agreement in February 2020 
due to non-payment. 
Despite the agreement being terminated, Mrs E still has possession of the car and has 
continued to use it without making monthly payments. She says shes tried to get another 
car but has been unable to do so because of adverse markers registered by Alphera on her 
credit file.
Mrs E says she wants to reject the car. She feels that it was misrepresented to her and that 
because it required repairs so soon, it wasnt of satisfactorily quality. If she has to keep the 
car, she wants the cost of repairs deducted from the purchase price and her finance 
agreement adjusted accordingly.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think, given the age and mileage of the car, 
that there should have been issued with the gearbox and said the car wasnt durable. He 
said that because Alphera had refused to arrange repairs, Mrs E shouldve been allowed to 
reject the car. The investigator acknowledged that Mrs E hadnt made payments and said 
she should make these from the date the car was repaired until the car was returned. He 
said that Alphera should mark the agreement as settled as of October 2019 and remove any 
adverse information from Mrs Es credit file. 
Alphera didnt agree. It said the independent report had concluded that the fault with the 
gearbox wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. It noted the investigators 
comments on durability but said that the age of the car meant that wear and tear was to be 
expected. Alphera said it still didnt have possession of the car and hadnt received a 
payment since August 2019. It said the agreement had been terminated and that 
repossession should take place.
Our investigator looked at things again and said that because  Mrs E had continued to use 
the car, she should make repayment from November 20919 (when it was repaired) to the 
date when it was returned.
Mrs E didnt agree. She said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and 
that Alphera had refused to let her reject it when she had requested this. She said she would 
pay for the use of the car from November 2019 but only if the finance agreement was 
adjusted to reflect what she thought was the true value of the car.
Because neither party agreed with the investigators view Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satisfactory quality
Because Alphera supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors including age, 
mileage, price, safety and durability. I would expect a second hand car  such as that 
supplied to Mrs E  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repair and 
maintenance more than a brand new car. So, inn order to uphold this complaint I would need 
to be satisfied that there was a  fault with the car which was present or developing at the 
point of supply, or that the car was of unsatisfactory quality for some other reason, as 
opposed to a fault caused by wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a  fault occurs in the first 6 months , theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. In these circumstances, its generally up to the business to put things right. 
The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. if the repair is unsuccessful, the 
consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
In this case, the fault with the gearbox occurred within the first 6 months. Ive looked at the 
valuable,, information to decide whether the business has rebutted the presumption and has 
shown on the balance of probability that the fault was due to wear and tear.
An independent engineers report can help to decide whether a fault was present at the point 
of supply. In this case, the car was inspected and the engineer found a fault with the gearbox 
which was causing the car to stall each time the drive gear was selected. The engineer 
concluded that the fault was due to wear and tear, and said it wouldnt have been present or 
developing at the point of supply. The engineer also said that the fault shouldve been 
noticeable by way of an engine management light illuminating and the car stalling. 
I can see that Mrs E told Alphera that the car had been over revving since she purchased it. 
She hasnt mentioned that the car was stalling or that the engine management light had 
illuminated. Ive thought about whether Mrs Es reports of over revving might indicate a fault and whether she might have made things worse by driving the car in this condition. Over 
revving wasnt one of the indicators identified by the engineer and there isnt any evidence to 
suggest that over revving is indicative of a fault. It could be due to drive style. So, Im unable 
to say that theres evidence that Mrs E made the fault worse. 
The independent report is clear in its conclusion that the fault with the gearbox was due to 
wear and tear. However, in considering whether the car was of satisfactory quality I also 
need to consider durability. I can see that Mrs E had only covered around 30000 miles when 
she experienced the fault. The car was around 4 years old and had covered a total of 18,000 
miles. Ive taken account of Alpheras comments on the age of the car and durability. 
However, on balance, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to experience gearbox 
failure in a car which is around 4 years old and has covered around 18,000 miles. A gearbox 
ought reasonably to be expected to last for longer than this. On balance, I dont think the 
gearbox was durable. Because of this  and despite the findings of the engineer who doesnt 
appear to have considered or commented on durability of the gearbox  I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality. 
Because Alphera rejected Mrs Es complaint and refused to carry out repairs, Im of the view 
that Mrs E should be allowed to reject the car. The effective date of rejection should be the 
date of Alpheras final response in which it advised Mrs E that it wasnt upholding her 
complaint (28 October 2019). Even though Mrs E arranged for the car to be repaired 
afterwards, Im not of the view that these repairs (which were carried out by a third party) 
mean that the rejection ought not to be effective. 
Misrepresentation
Mrs R has said that the reason she stopped making payments under the agreement was 
because she discovered that the car had two previous owners instead of one. She feels that 
because of this the car was misrepresented to her. In order to find that theres been a 
misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the dealer (or broker) made an untrue 
statement of fact which induced Mrs E to enter into the agreement. I wasnt present during 
Mrs Es discussions with the dealer so I cant be certain of what was said. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the car was described as having had only one previous owner. On 
balance, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the car was misrepresented.
Putting things right
Because Im satisfied that the gearbox wasnt durable and that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, and because there was a period of time between when the car broke down (August 
2019) and when it was repaired by a third party (November 2019), I dont think Mrs E should 
have to make payments under the agreement for the time the car wasnt in use.
However, on the basis that Mrs E has had use of the car since November 2019 and has 
retained possession of the car despite the agreement being terminated, I think Mrs E should 
still be responsible for payments under the agreement from 15 November 2019 until the date 
when the car is collected.
Because Ive found that Mrs E had the right to reject the car, I dont think its fair that she 
should have adverse information recorded on her credit file in relation to the agreement. 
Alphera should remove the adverse information and mark the agreement as settled with 
effect from 28 October 2019. 
Alphera made an error when it tried to repossess the car in 2019, because it had already 
agreed to place a hold on repossession. The attempted repossession caused significant 
distress and embarrassment to Mrs E and I think its fair to ask Alphera to pay compensation of £250 for this.
I can also see that Mrs E was caused considerable inconvenience for the time she was 
without the use of the car between August 2019 and November 2019. It took Alphera around 
3 months to arrange an inspection of the car and reach a decision on Mrs Es complaint, 
which is an unreasonable period of time. During this time, Mrs E had to reply on friends for a 
lift to work or use public transport or taxis. I think its fair to ask Alphera to pay compensation 
of £150 for the inconvenience caused to Mrs E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading 
as Alphera Financial Services must: 
Allow Mrs E to reject the car and record the date of rejection as 28 October 2019
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs E
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Es credit file
Pay total compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience
Refund (or waive) Mrs Es payments from August 2019 to October 2019
For the avoidance of doubt, Mrs E remains liable for the payments she should have made 
under the agreement from November 2019 until the car is collected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman