DRN-3440937
The complaint
Ms G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster) 
did not downgrade her account to a fee free account.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Ms Gs complaint about the downgrade. They concluded that 
Ulster had not done anything wrong in relation to this. Ms G did not agree with this and so 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
This complaint is only dealing with whether Ulster did anything wrong in relation to whether 
Ms Gs account should have been downgraded. I note that Ms G has mentioned the sale of 
the account itself and the reduction in a fee free overdraft buffer. To clarify though, this 
decision is not looking at the sale of the account itself, or the reduction in Ms Gs fee free 
overdraft buffer. If Ms G remains unhappy with either of these issues they would need to be 
dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Ms Gs complaint. 
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Ms G, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think that Ulster has done anything wrong. I know this isnt the outcome that 
she was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have 
come to this conclusion.
Ms G says that she received an e-mail in July 2020 that informed her that she was paying 
too much in overdraft interest. She says that this e-mail advised her to downgrade her 
account. We have asked both parties to provide any evidence that after this point either Ms 
G asked to downgrade her account or that Ulster said it would on her behalf. But I cant see 
that Ms G actually ever requested her account to be downgraded, or that Ulster ever said it 
was going to do so, prior to around when the account was actually downgraded. I also dont 
think that Ulster shouldve proactively downgraded the account without a request from Ms G.
I note that during the downgrade process it seems as if Ms G was given some incorrect 
information about possibly needing to go into a branch to complete the process. I note 
though that a refund of three months accounts fees was provided by Ulster for this and some 
delays in responding to Ms Gs complaint. I think this is appropriate given the circumstances.
Given this I cant see that Ulster actually did something wrong in not downgrading the 
account earlier than it did and I cant see that it needs to do anything more in relation to this 
matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman