DRN-1861544
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund four disputed 
transactions made using his Santander debit card.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr W was on holiday abroad, when he says he lost his wallet and mobile 
phone. Mr W says his driving licence and Santander debit card were in his wallet and he lost 
them along with his phone on the afternoon of 11 October.
Mr W contacted Santander and reported his card lost on 12 October. At that time he was 
given the balance of his account, and it appeared the card hadnt been used.
When Mr W returned to the UK, he called Santander and became aware that four 
transactions had been made with his lost debit card, prior to him reporting the loss. They 
were all made within the space of approximately one hour (from 11pm to midnight) on        
11 October 2019, at the same retailer and totalled just over £2,500.
Mr W raised a fraud case with Santander and asked them to refund him for the four 
transactions saying:
his PIN wasnt written down in his wallet or with the card
his PIN was on his phone in the notes section and his phone wasnt locked or 
secured so anyone could use it. But the PIN was coded in such a way that no one 
would be able to work out what it was
he thinks he lost them around 3pm or in the early afternoon of 11 October
he didnt report them as lost straight away as he thought hed left them in his hotel 
room, and as his friend was paying for their activities that day he didnt feel the need 
to return to the hotel to look for them
his phone was returned to him the following day (12 October) by a guide from a city 
tour they completed on the 11 October
Mr W also asked Santander how the four transactions had gone through after hed already 
called to report his card missing. 
Santander declined to refund Mr W for the disputed transactions, saying they couldnt see 
how an unknown third party couldve learned of Mr Ws PIN and all of the transactions were 
done with the PIN successfully entered. They explained that the transactions had flagged on 
their system and theyd sent a SMS to Mr Ws mobile which had been replied to confirming 
the payments as genuine. And the four transactions had been processed to his account after 
his card was lost, but the actual transactions were made and authorised prior to the card 
being cancelled. The transactions hadnt been applied to his balance which is why he wasnt 
made aware of them when he first called to report the loss of his card. 
When asked by Santander how he thought someone else couldve found out his PIN, Mr W 
referenced a report hed seen which suggested that cards could be read and the information 
obtained from them by fraudsters. Also, he told Santander that when his phone was returned 
he saw the SMS message on it, but it mustve been done by the fraudster.
Mr W also asked Santander to do a chargeback for the transactions, but Santander declined. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt it was 
most likely that Mr W had authorised the transactions as they couldnt see how someone 
else couldve learnt his PIN. Also they felt it was unusual there were no failed PIN attempts, 
and said they would expect to have seen some attempted use of the card after it had been 
cancelled.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion raising a number of points including:
the four disputed transactions were made after he had reported the fraud to 
Santander
Santanders text message to confirm the transactions as genuine, wasnt a sufficient 
check given the transactions totalled over £2,500 and were made in such a short 
period of time
Santander havent investigated his claim properly
the location where the transactions were completed may be operating criminally
Santander refused to do chargebacks with no proper justification or explanation why
he was expected to explain how the fraud happened when hes not an expect in that 
field and its Santanders job to find out how it happened
there was a fifth transaction made that wasnt successful, which explains why there 
werent more attempted uses of the card after it had been cancelled
As Mr W disagreed the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Santander can hold Mr W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Santander has provided evidence that Mr Ws genuine card was used to make the chip and 
PIN transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough 
to enable Santander to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr W consented to the transactions being made.
Santanders evidence shows that there were no failed PIN attempts when the disputed 
transactions were made, which meant that whoever used the card had entered the correct 
PIN on their first attempt. Mr W has been adamant that his PIN wasnt with the card when it was lost, and that while it was in the phone it was coded in such a way that anyone looking 
at it wouldnt be able to work out what the actual PIN was. Mr W provided an example of how 
the coding would be done and based on this, I wouldve expected to see an incorrect PIN 
attempt on at least the first use of the card based on the complexity of the coding he used. I 
cant see how anyone couldve correctly guessed what the correct PIN was first time. Im 
also conscious that Mr W hadnt used his card for any chip and PIN transactions while he 
was abroad, so I cant see a scenario where a fraudster couldve observed Mr W entering his 
PIN for use later when they obtained his card.
Im aware of the reference Mr W has made to university studies claiming a PIN can be 
obtained from a card, however there is no evidence to suggest that happened in this case 
and I dont consider it the most likely explanation as to what happened. Cards can be cloned 
by fraudsters copying the magnetic stripe on the back of cards, but I havent seen any 
evidence of the embedded chip being read and the encrypted PIN information being 
obtained from the chip.
Its also unusual that Mr W believes he lost his card and phone early afternoon, yet the first 
disputed transaction didnt happen until after 11pm  which was some hours later. Id usually 
expect a fraudster to use a card as quickly as possible after obtaining it, rather than waiting 
to use it  knowing that Mr W could notice the card was missing and cancel it at any time. 
And I wouldnt expect a fraudster to return a phone that theyve stolen, as it would make 
more sense for them to discard it.
 
Having carefully considered everything Mr W has told us and Santander, I cant see how a 
third party couldve obtained Mr Ws PIN. Therefore, I think the most likely explanation is that 
Mr W authorised these transactions himself. 
Were the four transactions processed after Mr W stopped his card
Mr W has raised a concern that at the time he cancelled his card, the four disputed 
transactions hadnt been processed. But there is often a difference between the day/time 
that a transaction may be processed on the merchants end and when the transaction goes 
through and affects the balance on the card used to make the payment. From everything Ive 
seen that is the situation here. So, when Mr W called to first report his card lost, the four 
transactions had already been processed by the merchant  with them receiving the 
payment/value on their end. Therefore the transactions couldnt have been stopped by 
Santander when Mr W called them. I appreciate that this may be confusing, but I would like 
to reassure Mr W that these transactions werent made or initiated after hed reported his 
card lost.
Should Santander have raised a chargeback 
Mr W feels that Santander shouldve raised chargebacks in an attempt to recover the funds. 
But the VISA dispute rules do not allow a bank to raise chargebacks for unauthorised 
transactions, where they were authenticated by a PIN  which is what happened in this case. 
So, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably by not raising a chargeback on these 
transactions.
Mr W has also raised concerns about the merchant where the transactions were processed, 
based on online reviews for them. Mr W has suggested that there may be criminal activity 
going on and that the merchant may be dishonest. And he feels Santander havent done a 
thorough investigation of the merchant or sufficiently investigated his fraud complaint. But I 
cant tell Santander how they should investigate fraud complaints, as that is the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In deciding this case, I have to look at what 
actions Santander have taken in the circumstances and what their responsibility is in trying to get these funds back for Mr W, and ultimately whether they can fairly hold him liable for 
the transactions.
 
Id like to reassure Mr W that I have listened to the calls he had with Santander and carefully 
considered everything hes told us and the reasons hes given as to why he disagreed with 
the investigators opinion.
 
But Mr W has been consistent in his testimony to both us and Santander that his PIN wasnt 
written down and that it was coded in his phone  and it is highly unlikely that someone 
could not only work out what it was but also get it right the first time they used it. So, based 
on everything Ive seen I think its more likely than not that Mr W made these transactions 
himself or consented to them. And while Mr W feels that Santander shouldve done more 
than just send an SMS message to confirm the payments as genuine, even if they had I 
think its unlikely that the outcome would be any different  as I think Mr W wouldve verified 
the transactions as genuine. Therefore, Santander is entitled to hold Mr W liable for the 
disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman