DRN-3360282
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was provided at a time when he was massive financial difficulty and 
borrowing more to pay off previous debts.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr K with a loan for £1,500.00 in November 2014. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around £177. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ks complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mr K with this loan. So he thought that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr K could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our adjudicators assessment. I find Avant Credits lack of a 
response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. 
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Avant Credit obtained when it provided this loan 
in an attempt to determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Mr K was already significantly 
indebted and deep in a cycle of payday and other high-cost lending. So Im persuaded by 
what Mr K has said about already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while 
its possible he could have been taking these loans through choice rather than because he 
was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in 
the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr Ks version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ks existing debts and previous credit history meant 
that he was unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into 
finding out about Mr Ks income and expenditure, Im satisfied they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr K. As Avant Credit 
provided this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr K. Mr K has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt 
have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr K lost out because of what Avant Credit did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr K by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges he paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr K to the date of settlement
all adverse information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed 
from Mr Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman