DRN-3203504
The complaint
Ms B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Ms B took out an 18-month instalment loan for £300 from Loans 2 Go on 29 December
2018. The monthly repayment was £67.97 and the total repayable was £1223.46.
Ms B says she should never have been accepted as she was crippled with payday loan
debt.
Our investigator said Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He said Loans 2 Go didnt carry
out proportionate checks, but even based on the information it gathered it didnt make a fair
lending decision.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said, in summary, its checks didnt show a clear indication that
Ms B was having financial difficulties. Its credit check showed she was on top of her
payments and there were many settled accounts showing her commitment and ability to
repay all her borrowing.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, but some of my findings varied. So I issued 
a provisional decision - an extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both 
parties to provide any comments or new information by 8 December 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms B before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party to understand her minimum income and it adjusted her declared
expenditure using national statistics to ensure it was reasonable. It added a buffer of 10% to
her expenditure. It checked Ms Bs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit
commitments and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Ms B
had enough disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
Given the term of the loan, its value and the value of the monthly repayments in relation to
Ms Bs income, I think the lenders checks were reasonable and proportionate. However, I
dont think it made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain
why.
Its credit check showed Ms B was reliant on high-cost short-term lending. She had taken out
payday loans frequently throughout 2018  on average two loans a month. At the time of her
application she had six payday loans with outstanding balances (four were up-to-date, one
was two months in arrears and one had an arrangement to pay in place). She was clearly
not taking payday loans to relieve a short-term cash flow problem as such loans are
intended to be used, but rather over an extended period of time to make ends meet.
I strongly disagree with the lenders assertion that the fact she had repaid so many of these
loans in full and on time shows she was able to manage her finances properly. I think it was
most likely she was repeatedly taking out new loans to repay existing loans and was in a
harmful cycle of expensive borrowing. By approving her application Loans 2 Go further
prolonged her indebtedness and reliance on high-cost credit. It follows my conclusion is that
Loans 2 Go was irresponsible to lend to Ms B.
I havent found any evidence that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B
in any other way.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline: Ms Bs representative confirmed she hadnt 
sent it any further points and Loans 2 Go said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new comments or information I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows for the reasons set out 
above I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Ms B.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Ms B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman