DRN-4197684
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sold it two term 
assurance policies that didnt include cover for critical illness. 
Ts representative and Mr H, who is the sole director and beneficial owner of T, bring the 
complaint on Ts behalf.  
What happened
T took out two loans with Lloyds in 2014. Following discussions with a Lloyds adviser, T also 
took out two term assurance policies (the policies), with 20 and 15 year terms. The policies 
had a guaranteed premium and provided decreasing cover that would pay out whatever was 
outstanding on Ts loans in the event of Mr Hs death. 
Mr H suffered a serious illness in 2017 and was unable to work. When T tried to claim on the 
policies, it was told they covered life and terminal illness only and didnt include critical 
illness cover (CIC). 
T complained to Lloyds that they had recommended policies that were unsuitable as they 
didnt include CIC. T said Mr H had made it clear to the Lloyds adviser that T needed CIC 
because Mr H was the only person running the company and he wanted to have cover in 
place should anything happen to him. T added that, because of Lloyds failings, Mr H had to 
return to work sooner than medically advised.
Lloyds didnt uphold Ts complaint. They said, in summary:
Whilst they recommended CIC, T declined it because of the additional cost. That was 
determined at a meeting between Mr H and a Lloyds adviser on 29 January 2014. At that 
meeting the adviser would have provided Mr H with an indication of the likely premiums 
for policies providing life cover only, and life and critical illness cover.
On 12 March 2014 the Lloyds adviser sent a financial review document to T, based on 
information discussed at the 29 January meeting. The review said that CIC had been 
discussed at the meeting but discounted by Mr H. Reflecting that, the adviser 
recommended decreasing life cover only. 
The adviser would have shared quotes for policies offered by two providers. 
The premiums were very similar, with one provider being recommended due to the ease 
of all of Ts policies being with one company. Although the other providers quotes said 
yes next to the CIC line, that was an error as the quotes were on the same basis. 
That was reflected in the very similar cost of the quotes.   
At a further meeting on 14 March 2014, Mr H was content to proceed with the policies 
previously discussed, which did not include CIC. The adviser therefore went through the 
policy application documents with Mr H, which made clear the cover was for life and 
terminal illness only. 
There was no reason for them to have dissuaded T from taking out policies that included 
CIC, it was Ts decision not to do so.  
T brought its complaint to the ombudsman service. In its submissions, T made the following 
additional points:
It refutes Lloyds claim that they recommended policies including CIC, but T disregarded 
their advice due to the cost of the policies.
It challenges Lloyds claim that a meeting took place on 14 March 2014. There is no 
evidence that a meeting took place on that date. Mr H has no record of a meeting and 
says that due to the constraints of his business it wasnt possible for him to attend 
meetings on Fridays. The 14 March meeting is referred to in the financial review 
document which is dated 5 March so cant be taken as evidence it took place.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint and didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. He said:
On balance, he thought it was more likely than not that Mr H met with Lloyds on 
14 March 2014.
He was satisfied that CIC was discussed with Mr H, but he had seen no evidence that 
Mr H asked for it to be included in the policies. 
He was satisfied that Lloyds made it clear to T that CIC wasnt included as part of the 
policies. The financial review document said that T wanted Lloyds to arrange policies on 
a life cover only basis as CIC wasnt such a concern. He would have expected T to raise 
the omission of CIC with Lloyds when it received the review letter and policy documents.  
 
T didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. T said: 
CIC was essential and one of the main reasons it entered into discussions with Lloyds 
about insurance cover in the first place. 
T was an unsophisticated borrower and Lloyds had a duty of care towards it. Mr H wasnt 
experienced in insurance protection of any kind and was very much guided by Lloyds 
and their recommendations. 
Lloyds fell short of the requirements to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Had T been made aware the policies did not include CIC it would have 
raised it at the time and not taken the policies out. 
The meeting on 14 March 2014 did not take place. The personal data extract document 
provided by Lloyds did not include an entry for 14 March. Even if the meeting did go 
ahead, that is in no way evidence of Mr H confirming that T didnt want CIC.
The financial review document does not reflect what was discussed with Mr H and in any 
event is unsuitable for unsophisticated customers like T. The document is negligent as it 
does not accurately reflect the position discussed. It is not fair to rely on a document 
which is negligent when Lloyds have no other evidence of what was discussed. 
It is not an adequate defence for Lloyds to say they would have destroyed any 
handwritten notes from the time. If the reference to CIC in one of the quotes was a typographical error, then it is a further 
example of Lloyds negligence and it is not surprising the terms of the policies were not clear 
to T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful to explain first the role of the Financial Ombudsman. We provide an 
independent, informal dispute resolution service, where decisions are made based upon the 
balance of probabilities. We have a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In reaching my decision on this complaint, Ive taken account of what both parties have said 
as well as the documents available from the time. Id like to reassure Ts representative that 
Ive looked carefully at all the information they have provided on behalf of T. Having done so, 
I hope they wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point they have 
raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.  
Mr H met a Lloyds adviser in January 2014 to discuss protection for the loans that T was 
taking out. Mr H and Lloyds have provided differing accounts of what happened at that 
meeting. Mr H has said he made it clear that he would want any policies to include CIC. 
Lloyds say their adviser would have provided Mr H with an indication of the price of both life 
cover only and life and CIC cover, and that Mr H decided to proceed with life cover only 
because of the cost. Lloyds have said that the addition of CIC would have approximately 
quadrupled the price.
Ive taken account of what both parties have said, although I note that memories of what was 
discussed can fade after so many years. Ive not seen copies of any notes that were taken at 
the meeting itself, although I dont think thats unusual for a meeting that took place more 
than nine years ago. 
Ive seen a copy of the financial review document prepared by the Lloyds adviser on 
5 March 2014 and sent to T the following week. The advisers covering letter said that the 
review summarised the needs and priorities identified during the meeting in January 2014. 
Ive taken account of the concerns raised by Mr Hs representative about the financial review 
document, including that it is unclear and poorly drafted. I do however think it is reasonable 
to give some weight to the review document in determining what was most likely discussed 
between Mr H and Lloyds at their meeting in January 2014. I say that because the document 
was written just a few weeks after the meeting and Mr H would have had the opportunity at 
the time to correct anything that he didnt think was an accurate reflection of the meeting. 
The financial review document included the following:
Under aims and objectives, it said that Mr H had been referred to the adviser to 
discuss protection of Ts loans in order to ensure that in the event that [Mr H] were to 
die, any outstanding borrowing would be fully repaid. 
The same section said you wish to arrange this on a life cover basis only as you 
feel that critical illness protection is not such a concern to you or the business. 
You fully understand that this may cause you and the company some financial losses 
although you feel this would not be anywhere as serious as if you were to pass away. You would sell the business if you were unable to work and the business may even 
run itself to a certain extent.
The recommendation section said I recommend that your business arrange & pay 
for decreasing life only cover on the life assured of [Mr H], as follows
In the same section, listing possible disadvantages of the recommendation, it said 
If the life assured were to suffer a critical Illness, there will be no payout unless the 
life assured died before the end of the term. 
Ive seen no evidence from the time that Mr H disagreed with what was recorded in the 
financial review document or asked for CIC to be added to the life cover policies that Lloyds 
were recommending. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think the recommended policies 
matched Ts objectives and were suitable for Ts needs. 
I think the review document made clear that the policies recommended by Lloyds provided 
life cover and did not include CIC. I note that Ts representative has described T as an 
unsophisticated borrower. But I think the information provided by Lloyds was sufficiently 
clear to enable Mr H, on behalf of T, to make an informed decision about the policies that 
were being recommended. 
Ts representative has highlighted that the summary of the alternative quotes given in the 
financial review document showed yes against CIC. Ive considered this and I think it was 
most likely a mistake in the description of the policies. As Ive already noted there were 
several references in the document to T not requiring CIC. The alternative quotes were 
almost identical in cost to the recommended policies, and I think any policies including CIC 
would most likely have been significantly more expensive.
Ts representative has also questioned Lloyds account that Mr H met their adviser for a 
presentation meeting on 14 March 2014. Lloyds have said that Mr H and the adviser 
discussed the review document at that meeting and went through the policy application 
forms, from which it would have made been clear that CIC was not included.   
I note what Ts representative has said about Mr H not being able to attend meetings on a 
Friday and that there is no record of a meeting in the personal data extract provided by 
Lloyds. On balance, however, I think it is more likely than not that a further meeting did take 
place on 14 March 2014. I say that because: 
The financial review document referred to a presentation meeting taking place on 
14 March 2014. Although Ts representative is concerned that the financial review 
document predated 14 March, I think it is evidence that the meeting had most likely 
been scheduled in advance. 
Ive seen a copy of an email from the Lloyds adviser to Mr H on 17 March 2014 
saying, I hope you had a good weekend; it was good to see you Friday.
Ive also seen that Mr H signed an access to medical reports document in relation to 
the policies on 14 March 2014. 
I think its most likely that Mr H completed the necessary paperwork for the policies at the 
meeting on 14 March 2014. Ive seen a copy of the applications submitted and the related 
key features document and I think it would have been clear to Mr H that the policies 
provided life cover and not CIC. That would have given Mr H another opportunity to query the absence of CIC if he had wanted it to be included. Instead, Mr H went ahead with the 
applications for the policies that Lloyds had recommended to T. 
I have considered what Ts representative has said about letters from Lloyds to T dated 
12 March 2014 (enclosing the financial review document) and 17 March 2014 being sent to 
different addresses. The 12 March letter was sent to Ts registered address. Its not clear 
why the later letter was sent to an alternative address used by Mr Hs businesses, but I think 
its most likely that T would have received it. I note too that the letter was simply confirming 
details of the policies and that Lloyds had the necessary paperwork, so even if there had 
been a slight delay in the letter being received, it would not affect my findings on this 
complaint.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think it is most likely that Mr H, on behalf of 
T, told Lloyds he only wanted life cover. I think Lloyds recommended policies that were 
suitable for Ts needs and provided information about the policies that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that Mr H could make an informed decision. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr H on behalf of T, but I wont be upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman