DRN-2806532
The complaint
Mr R complains about American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
over holding him jointly liable for a credit card which he took out with a now dissolved 
business. He wants American Express to stop the debt recovery action which has been 
commenced against him. 
What happened
Mr R is a former employee of company C. 
In March 2019, Mr R says that he and company C were contacted by American Express 
about taking on a business charge card. 
Company C and Mr R spoke with American Express and agreed to apply for a Gold 
Business Charge Card. The application was successful, and cards were issued to both the 
company and Mr R. 
The terms of the card required that the balance of the card be cleared each month. 
Mr R and Company C used their cards and initially cleared the balance at the end of the 
month. Within a few months, however, balances were not being fully cleared. 
Company C last made a payment to the card in late June 2019 and a balance of around 
£2200 was left on the card. 
American Express wrote to both Mr R and Company C regarding the outstanding balance. 
Company C was then wound up in Autumn 2019, leaving the balance owed. 
American Express then continued writing to Mr R, and issued a default notice to him. 
American Express has subsequently sold the debt to a third party. That third party is 
attempting to enforce the debt against Mr R.
Mr R complained to American Express. He said that it had not been mentioned that he would 
be held jointly liable with the business during the initial call when he applied for the card. He 
said he was misled by American Express and was given the impression that only the 
business was liable for debts incurred on the card.
American Express sent Mr R its final response rejecting his complaint. American Express 
pointed to the terms and conditions of the card which made clear that business cards could 
only be held by a business with a director or other person jointly liable for the card. It pointed 
to Mr Rs acceptance of the terms and conditions and declined to waive his debt. 
Mr R remained unhappy so contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that, on the evidence available, American Express had acted in line with their terms 
which had been agreed by Mr R. He therefore did not think that American Express had done 
anything wrong and did not ask them to do anything further.
Mr R did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs upset and concern in this matter. I appreciate that it would be troubling 
to learn of a joint liability if Mr R had not previously understood that this was what he was 
agreeing to. 
I also understand that Mr R has raised concerns regarding the initial call from American 
Express, which he feels was targeted at Company C as a selling business. He says that the 
call was misleading, and he was assured that he would not share liability with the company 
by being a joint card holder. 
Unfortunately, the recording of that conversation is not available and so I am not able to form 
a view on what was said during the call. I must instead rely on the written evidence which 
has been provided.
As the investigator has explained, American Express has provided evidence of the 
information presented to Mr R and Company C at the point of application. This makes clear 
that the application is for a joint card and that both the Company and Mr R will be jointly and 
severally liable for the card. 
American Express has also provided evidence that Mr R signed electronically and, in doing 
so, confirmed that he had read and understood the terms and conditions.   
I understand Mr Rs upset but based upon the evidence available I cannot say that American 
Express has acted wrongly, as it has acted in accordance with these agreed terms. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. I 
realise this will be disappointing to Mr R, but I hope it explains clearly why I have reached it. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask American 
Express Services Europe Limited to do anything further. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman