DRN-3772125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in November 2021, Mr and Mrs A bought a single trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by AWP. The policy was for a family trip to the USA 
departing on 16 December 2021 and returning on 4 January 2022. 
On 3 January 2022, Mrs A tested positive for Covid-19. Mr and Mrs A say that one of the 
children also tested positive for Covid-19. The family couldnt return to the UK as 
planned. Mr and Mrs A contacted AWP to make a claim against their policy. AWP paid 
for additional accommodation and the return flights were rearranged. Mr and Mrs A and 
family returned home on 15 January 2022. 
Mrs A completed a claim form in which she claimed for additional car hire and car 
parking costs. She didnt hear from AWP and contacted them several times with no 
satisfactory response.  
AWP didnt provide this service with the information we asked for so one of our 
investigators looked at what had happened on the basis of the information provided by 
Mr and Mrs A. The investigator said that AWP is required to handle claims promptly and 
fairly and hadnt done so here. She said that AWP should consider Mr and Mrs As claim 
as soon as possible, pay interest on any claim settlement from the date of the claim and 
pay compensation of £150 in relation to Mr and Mrs As distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs A accepted the investigators recommended outcome. AWP didnt provide its 
response. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
In October 2022, AWP sent Mrs A its belated response to her complaint. It apologised 
for the delay in assessing the claim. AWP said that it had paid Mrs A £753.57 on            
9 September 2022, which it said was the amount of the claim (£803.57) less the excess 
due under the policy (£50). Mrs A said she hadnt received the payment and that she 
was also seeking compensation because of the delay in dealing with her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Its common ground that AWP delayed in dealing with Mr and Mrs As 
claim. Based on what Ive seen, Mrs A made the claim soon after she returned to the UK in 
early 2022. There was no substantive response until October 2022. That delay no doubt 
caused Mr and Mrs A distress and inconvenience as they were put to the trouble of chasing 
AWP. And they were kept out of the use of their money. 
In its e-mail to Mrs A in October 2022, AWP said that it had sent the settlement amount to 
Mrs A, but Mrs A said she hasnt received it. 
In the circumstances, I think that AWP should either produce evidence to show that it has 
paid the settlement amount to Mrs As nominated account or pay Mr and Mrs A the amount 
they are due under the claim. In addition, AWP should pay interest on the settlement at the 
simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the claim to the date of payment. 
AWPs delay in dealing with Mr and Mrs As claim caused them distress and inconvenience 
in that they had to contact AWP several times and didnt receive satisfactory responses. So, 
AWP should also pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £150 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:
Produce evidence to show that it has paid the settlement amount to Mrs As 
nominated account or pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they are due under the claim.
Pay interest on the settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of 
the claim to the date of payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £150 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require AWP P&C SA to take the steps 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman