DRN-3566280
The complaint
Miss H has complained that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
feepaying Advantage Gold account in 2002.
Miss H says that the account was mis-sold because she did not ask for the account and 
didnt know much about it.
Miss H has also said that she spoke to NatWest about removing the Advantage Gold 
package from her account in 2008, but she says she was told she needed to keep the 
account to get loans and mortgages and so that she was able to use the banks benefits.
What happened
NatWest said that our service is unable to consider this complaint because it says that Miss 
H complained too late.
We issued a decision on this matter and concluded that we could not look at the original sale 
of the account from 2002.
However, we did conclude that we could look at the information provided in 2008 when Miss 
H says she attempted to downgrade her account.
One of our adjudicators looked into this part of Miss Hs complaint and she concluded that 
there was not enough evidence to demonstrate that NatWest did something wrong in 2008. 
Miss H did not agree and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance I should explain that were there is a dispute about what has happened I have 
to base my assessment on what is most likely to have happened based on the available 
evidence. 
Miss H has said that she was told in 2008 that she would have to keep the Advantage Gold 
account in order to have a better chance to get personal loans and mortgages in the future. 
However, I cant see that Miss H ever had any declined applications for either prior to her 
successfully taking out a loan in 2008. So I question why she wouldve thought that she 
needed a better chance to obtain a loan or mortgage.
That said I can see that one of the benefits of the Advantage Gold account was that account 
holders had access to better interest rates on loans and mortgages. I can also see that the 
loan that she took out in 2008 came with a preferential rate compared to what she wouldve 
received had she held a free account. So what I think Miss H recalls is that she was told that 
she would get a better rate on a loan or a mortgage if she held the Advantage Gold account 
rather than she had to keep the account to get a loan or a mortgage in the future.
So overall I dont think that NatWest did anything wrong in relation to this and it follows that I 
do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman