DRN-4416937
The complaint
Mrs I complains that the redress approach Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) 
have proposed to put right the incorrect advice that they gave her to take out a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan, is unfair. 
Mrs I would like LV to work on an assumption that she would have taken out added years, 
as opposed to a money purchase additional voluntary contribution plan, when working out 
the redress thats owed to her.
Mrs I is represented by a third-party but for simplicity, my decision will note all submissions 
as having come from Mrs I.
What happened
In 1992, Mrs I met with a representative of LV to look at what options she had for increasing 
her retirement benefits. At the time, she was working as a teacher and was a member of the 
Teachers Final Salary pension scheme. Following those discussions, the representative 
recommended that Mrs I take out a FSAVC to help increment her pension benefits when she 
eventually stopped work. The aim was to help make up for around 15 years worth of 
shortfalls that the representative had calculated Mrs I would have at retirement. Mrs I then 
met with LVs representative a further two times and on each of those occasions she 
incremented her monthly contribution. In 1998, she transferred her FSAVC plan away to a 
new provider and started taking the benefits through an annuity after utilising the open 
market option.
In January 2023, Mrs I decided to formally complain to LV. In summary, she explained that 
she didnt believe that the sale of the original FSAVC was appropriate for her. She went on 
to explain that LV didnt highlight the in-house AVC options that were available. 
After reviewing Mrs Is concerns, LV conceded that their original recommendation failed to 
take account of the in-house pension top-up options, so they upheld her complaint. They 
also said, in summary, they believed that had she been given all of the relevant information 
at the time, they were of the view that she would have taken out a money purchase AVC. LV 
then explained that to put things right for her, they would undertake a comparison of costs 
between what she actually paid in their scheme versus what she would have paid had she 
taken the in-house AVC scheme out.
Mrs I was unhappy with LVs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she said that based on her circumstances at the time, she would have taken out 
an added years AVC rather than a money purchase option. As such, she wanted LV to 
revise their redress to take account of this.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He felt that LV were 
reasonable in concluding that Mrs I would have taken out the money purchase in-house AVC 
rather than the added years option.
Mrs I, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that had she 
been given suitable advice in 1992, its very unlikely that she wouldve taken out the FSAVC 
because she was averse to risk and as such, the added years scheme would have suited 
her risk profile more closely. In addition, she said that she wouldnt have needed to seek 
further advice in 1993 and 1995. Thats because, she says, she wouldve taken out the 
added years option had she been made aware of it.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mrs I had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy 
with that outcome, Mrs I then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case 
because I felt it was necessary to deal with the issue of jurisdiction that wasnt covered in our 
Investigators initial view. In addition, I noted that I was minded to agree with the initial view 
issued by our Investigator and as such, I added additional context to their rationale.
What I said in my provisional decision:
1. Can this service consider Mrs Is complaint?
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that I 
cant look at a complaint made more than six years after the event being complained about  
or (if later) more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware of their cause for complaint. Unless that is, the business being complained 
about agrees. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case, LV hasnt agreed to us 
considering Mrs Is complaint because it believes she complained outside of these time 
limits.
I appreciate our Investigator has already issued a view on this complaint. However, after 
reviewing the file, given the time thats elapsed since the original advice (in 1992) and the 
fact that the complaint was only raised with this service some 25 years later, we must first 
look to see if it meets the regulatory rules on whether this service can or cannot look at the 
complaint. Those rules are in place to protect both the consumer and the business. The 
relevant time limits:
The six-year period and what this means for Mrs Is complaint 
Mrs I referred her complaint to this service in June 2023. So, its clear that the complaint has 
been brought more than six years after the event Mrs I is complaining about, which is the 
advice she received in March 1992, June 1993, and June 1995.
The three-year period - Does this provide Mrs I longer than six years from when the advice 
was provided in order to complain? 
Even though Mrs I complained more than six years after the event shes now complaining 
about, this isnt the end of the matter. This is because the DISP rules can potentially provide 
Mrs I with longer than six years to complain, as long as she complains within three years of 
when she was aware, or she ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to. So, 
Ive considered when Mrs I was aware, or she ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
she had cause to complain.
When did Mrs I become aware that she had cause for complaint?Ive thought carefully about whether there were any trigger events that should have helped 
Mrs I realise that something may not be right with her pension sooner, leading her to the 
point at which she ought to have known that she had cause for complaint. As Ive already 
explained, Mrs I originally took her FSAVC plan out in 1992. She then incremented the plan 
on two further occasions after that, in 1993 and 1995. Both of those latter two events were 
with the same adviser.
However, in September 1998 when Mrs I was 54 years old, she retired from teaching and 
decided to draw the benefits from her final salary pension scheme. In November 1998, she 
sought guidance from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), who recommended that she 
move her FSAVC fund from LV to Friends Provident. The purpose of the switch allowed Mrs 
I to benefit from the open market option. Thats a feature that was made available to 
consumers that allowed them to shop around different providers to secure the best possible 
annuity rate. I think its important to note here that Mrs I didnt use LVs representative to 
provide that guidance, and instead it was a new, independent financial adviser. 
Ive thought about whether taking her benefits in 1998 would have given Mrs I an inkling that 
something might have been up with the previous advice that she received six years earlier, 
even though she saw a new adviser, and Im not convinced it would have. The focus of that 
meeting was arranging the transfer of her existing FSAVC from LV to Friends Provident, so 
she could access the open market option. I think that had the IFA identified that there might 
have been an issue with the earlier advice at that time, theres no reason why Mrs I wouldnt 
have complained to LV at that point. 
I also asked LV whether Mrs Is pension was included in their review of past FSAVC sales in 
the early 2000s, following direction from the then regulator. LV have explained that Mrs Is 
FSAVC advice wasnt revisited. So, I think based on circumstances of this case, it seems to 
me that the point at which Mrs I realised that there might be a problem was when she saw 
the Claim Management Companys advert in 2023 and took guidance from them. Her 
complaint was then submitted to LV and, importantly, to this service within three years of that 
point.
Ive therefore concluded that the complaint has been raised within three years of when Mrs I 
ought reasonably to have known that there was a problem and as such, has been brought in 
time so is a case that this service can consider.
2. Is the redress approach that LV have proposed, fair and reasonable?
LV have already reviewed the original advice that they provided in 1992 and determined that 
they didnt make Mrs I aware that she could have explored arranging an AVC through her 
employers scheme rather than taking out a FSAVC with themselves. Theyve concluded that 
to put things right for Mrs I, theyre prepared to undertake a cost comparison between what 
she paid in charges through their plan, versus what she wouldve paid had she taken out an 
in-house AVC. Mrs Is representative, though, claim that had she been properly advised, she 
would have taken out the teachers added years AVC scheme instead, and believe that LV 
should undertake their redress calculations on that basis.
Having very carefully considered both sets of submissions, whilst Im upholding Mrs Is 
complaint, I wont be instructing LV to take any action beyond what theyve already set out in 
their final resolution letter to her. Given the considerable passage of time thats elapsed 
since Mrs I was provided with the original advice, and in circumstances where records are 
scarce, I have to base my decision on the limited information I have, but also what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances; and like our Investigator, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs I would have likely chosen to buy added years in 1992. I appreciate that this will 
likely come as a disappointment to Mrs I, but Ill explain why.Ive looked very closely at Mrs Is circumstances at the time of the original and subsequent 
advice she received to invest in LVs FSAVC. The facts of the case are well known to both 
parties in the complaint, so I will focus on what I feel to be the main points. In February 1992, 
Mrs I was 47 years old and had been a member of the Teachers Pension scheme for 13 
years. At the point LV provided advice to her, their representative noted that she planned to 
give up work between age 57 to 60 years old. To accrue the maximum pension in the 
teachers scheme, Mrs I wouldve had to have contributed for 40 years. Based on her 
circumstances, that meant Mrs I could potentially build up a further 10 to 13 years in the 
main scheme. LVs recommendation was therefore designed to plug some of the missing 14 
years worth of benefits that Mrs I was projected to miss out on. 
Whilst LVs representative recommended a FSAVC to Mrs I, I should explain here, that Mrs I 
wouldnt have received advice on added years based on her specific circumstances from LV. 
Even if LV had made her aware of the existence of in-house AVCs and even if she chose to 
contact her employer - which isnt guaranteed in itself - she only would have been provided 
with information about added years. It would have been then up to Mrs I to make a decision 
on what she preferred. 
A year later, in March 1993, Mrs I met with LVs representative again and increased her 
FSAVC monthly contribution to 9% of her salary. At this point, her retirement age was noted 
as 60 years old.
By the time of the May 1995 increment, theres evidence of an attitude to risk discussion 
having taken place where LVs representative has noted that Mrs I is happy to invest 20% of 
her monies in minimal risk, 30% in low risk and 50% in medium risk. I dont consider that 
level of risk as being at odds with either the fund that Mrs Is FSAVC was invested in 
(Managed Fund) or for someone who was recommended a FSAVC over the added years 
option to achieve their retirement goals. The premiums would then be invested over the 10+ 
years and run alongside the guaranteed benefits being built up within Mrs Is teachers 
scheme. In addition, at the 1995 meeting, LVs representative had also recorded that Mrs I 
then held a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) worth around £17,400, of which she was funding 
£250 per month (it seems from the 1993 fact-find that this was arranged shortly after the 
topping up of the FSAVC for the first time). This investment supports the consumers 
willingness to take risks and I think that had Mrs I been inherently cautious, or a non-risk 
taker, she wouldnt have invested in the PEP (which were medium to long term equity 
based). 
So, whilst added years would have provided guaranteed benefits whereas AVC or FSAVCs 
were subject to investment risk, Mrs I was still many years from retirement and could accrue 
additional guaranteed benefits as well as take some risks with part of her pension. Whilst the 
two earlier fact-finds dont capture her attitude to risk, as Ive already explained, the 1995 
one does. This does reflect the fact that shes prepared to take risk with her monies and 
importantly, I think that she was willing to take some risk with her pension. Whilst Mrs Is 
representative has claimed that it wouldnt be reasonable to take Mrs Is risk appetite in 1995 
as being the same in 1992, I dont agree. Ive already explained that in shaping my decision, 
Ive had to base some of my thinking on the balance of probabilities, and I think from what 
Ive seen, its more likely than not that Mrs I was comfortable taking risks. Thats reflected in 
the fact that within three years of taking the FSAVC out, shed also built a sizeable PEP 
investment.
In 1995, theres also evidence that LVs representative discussed buying extra years with 
Mrs I in the main teachers pension scheme as well as a discussion taking place around their 
in-house AVC. Beyond suggesting that costs were covered, it doesnt go on to say a great 
deal more. Ive no reason to doubt that discussion took place, so it seems in-house options 
were raised with Mrs I, but more likely than not, to a limited extent. However, I can see why a money purchase arrangement may have looked more attractive to Mrs I than purchasing 
added years. Buying additional years in the main scheme is expensive, and theres good 
reason for that  its because whilst the main scheme is subsidised by the employer, the 
added years scheme isnt and as such, the full cost is borne by the employee.
Ive thought about what scope Mrs I had to buy added years. In the 1990s, HRMC limited 
employee pension contributions to 15% of salary. As Mrs I was already contributing 6% of 
her monthly wages to the main scheme, that left her with 9% that she could contribute to 
either an in-house or FSVAC scheme. In 1992, Mrs I was noted as earning £23,886 per 
annum and to purchase a single added year would have cost her 1.73% of her salary. 
Therefore, to purchase the 14 years that she was missing would cost 24.22% of her pay (or 
£5,785), which was in excess of HMRC limits at the time. That meant Mrs I wouldve been 
limited to purchasing just five added years, leaving her short of her goal by nine years. To 
start with, Mrs I contributed 7.5% of her salary and whilst that was incremented the following 
year to the 9%, she still wouldnt have been able to fully bridge the 14 years of missing years 
with added years.
At the time of advice, added years might have looked expensive compared to the projected 
benefits of the FSAVC. Whilst recent investment returns and annuity rates have made final 
salary pension schemes look extremely attractive, I must consider the circumstances of Mrs 
I in 1992. Thats because investment returns were much higher in the 1990s than they are 
now and thats reflected in the growth rates providers used at the time. In 1992 for example, 
providers projected potential returns being as high as 13% per annum. In the illustration 
provided to Mrs I, her contribution at that time (based on a growth rate of 13%) was 
projected to yield an annuity income of £5,030 per annum. So, its clear to see why an 
FSAVC may have seemed much more attractive than added years - the goal of getting 
better benefits for a lower monthly contribution, when potential returns were so high.
In reaching my decision, Ive also carefully considered the actions of Mrs I. In September 
1998, at the age of 54, she took early retirement from teaching and started to draw the 
benefits from her occupational pension scheme. At the time, the normal scheme retirement 
age was 60, so Mrs I had finished work six years early. At that point, she took her tax-free 
lump sum from the main scheme and a reduced pension to take account of the fact it was 
being paid before normal pension age and therefore, in payment for longer. Mrs I then met 
with an IFA who advised her to switch her FSAVC fund to Friends Provident, where she took 
an annuity with the monies. Importantly, had Mrs I been a member of her schemes added 
years AVC, that too wouldve faced an actuarial reduction because like her main scheme, 
the added years element wouldve been in payment for longer as well. That adjustment isnt 
intended to penalise the consumer, but it can result in significantly lower benefits.
What that means in practice is, given she was an early leaver, Mrs I was less likely to have 
benefited from the added years scheme; thats because she wouldve only made six years 
worth of contributions needed into the scheme towards her maximum available allowance of 
five added years worth of extra credit, which would then have been reduced to take account 
of the fact the pension was payable for longer. Ive already explained that to accrue just five 
years worth of added years, Mrs I wouldve needed to have paid her 9% contribution until 
she reached the normal retirement age of 60, which we know she didnt do. So, whilst LVs 
representative noted that Mrs Is planned retirement age of between age 57 to 60 years old, 
Mrs I gave up work earlier. And, I suspect that was likely always the plan, hence her desire 
to pay as much into her pension as possible.
Finally, Ive also thought about the ancillary benefits that purchasing added years wouldve 
given Mrs I that her FSAVC wouldnt, such as an increased spouses pension. Having looked 
at the fact-finds submitted with the complaint, it seems that whilst Mrs I is married, her 
husbands details or indeed his financial circumstances are not included; the fact-finds 
appear to suggest that thats through Mrs Is choice, indicating their finances are kept separate. However, given Mrs Is income and the fact that even in 1992, the records show 
she is mortgage free with deposits and investments steadily growing between meetings, 
point towards a reasonable level of income coming into the household. So, whilst that 
suggests she has the capacity to take risks at the level she is doing with her AVCs, I also 
think it points towards a spouses pension being more likely than not of secondary 
importance to Mrs I, with the primary focus on ensuring her own retirement benefits were 
maximised.
I think overall, given the cost of the added years option compared to the high investment 
returns that were projected through the FSAVC, that wouldve more likely than not have 
made LVs proposition more attractive to Mrs I and as such, I have concluded that it is the in-
house money purchase AVC scheme which would have been chosen - as such, that should 
form the basis for LVs redress calculation.
Responses to my provisional decision:
After receiving my provisional decision, LV didnt provide any further comment.
Mrs Is representative responded to my provisional decision, explaining that they didnt agree 
with the outcome that Id reached. They said, in summary:
Had Mrs I been given the correct advice to contact her employer in 1992 to explore the 
in-house AVC options, its debatable that she wouldve needed to have seen LVs 
adviser in 1993 and 1995 because, they say, its unlikely that she wouldve felt the need 
to seek further advice as she wouldnt have changed her mind.
They wanted to highlight that the businesss recommendation was to plug some of the 
missing 14 years worth of benefits that Mrs I would potentially miss out on, not bridge all 
of them.
They felt that it was implausible to suggest that anyone willing to contribute the maximum 
9% of salary to a FSAVC would not have purchased added years just because they 
would not have reached the maximum 40 years.
Mrs Is representative went on to say that there seemed little doubt that added years 
were affordable for Mrs I, so it came down to an argument of risk. They explained that as 
the majority of Mrs Is monies in 1992 were deposit based, that pointed towards a risk-
free, added years solution. 
They also explained that, despite having disposable income, Mrs I chose not to increase 
the capital invested in her PEP in 1992, and they say that also pointed towards an added 
years investment.
In addition, whilst Mrs Is representative conceded that the prospective investment 
returns on the FSAVC of 13% wouldve looked attractive, she would have had nothing to 
compare it to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs I and LV in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. I should also emphasise that a considerable passage of time 
has elapsed since the original advice. And, having considered the evidence and Mrs Is 
circumstances from the time, Im upholding Mrs Is complaint, but I wont be asking LV to 
take any further action beyond what theyve already put forward in their resolution letter - Ill 
explain why.
Theres no dispute in this case that LV didnt highlight the availability of an in-house AVC 
scheme to Mrs I back in 1992  the main point of contention in this case is on the balance of 
probabilities, had they done so, what action would she have taken? 
Mrs Is representative believes that she was risk averse in 1992, so had LV highlighted the 
in-house added years AVCs, they say that she wouldnt have opted for the FSAVC. But, Mrs 
I held a Personal Equity Plan (the forerunner to investment ISAs), of which she was funding. 
So, I fail to be persuaded that Mrs I wasnt happy to take risks with her savings, and in 
particular, the absence of any large, risk-based investments at inception/1992, doesnt 
automatically point to Mrs I opting for added years. In 1992, shed already saved around 
£3,000 into the PEP and, whilst I should acknowledge that she did have a large deposit 
based balance, that wasnt because she didnt wish to take risks with her money; the fact-
find completed at that time, points to Mrs I holding a large deposit balance because she was 
planning on using those funds towards private school fees for her two children, not because 
she wasnt prepared to take risks with it. She clearly had the capacity to take risks  she was 
debt free, had disposable income and there didnt appear to be a reliance on her husbands 
income. The PEP investment supports the consumers willingness to take risks and I think 
that, had Mrs I been inherently cautious, or a non-risk taker, she wouldnt have invested in 
the PEP (which was a medium to long term equity-based investment). 
In addition to this, in 1995, LVs representative completed an attitude to risk discussion with 
Mrs I and determined that she was a medium risk investor. As Ive already explained, I dont 
consider that level of risk as being at odds with either the fund that Mrs Is FSAVC was 
invested in, or for someone who was recommended a FSAVC over the added years option 
to achieve their retirement goals. Importantly, back in 1992, the then regulators rules around 
documenting risk discussions werent as robust as they are now, but just because the 
adviser at the time didnt capture the consumers risk profile in 1992, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that a conversation didnt occur. I think its more likely than not that a risk discussion 
did take place in light of Mrs Is existing investment and in 1995 it was documented, but the 
investments didnt alter, which seems to point to her always being content in taking some 
risks with her monies.
Mrs Is representative has conceded that the prospective investment returns on the FSAVC 
of 13% wouldve looked attractive, but, as Mrs I had nothing to compare those figures to, 
they dont see why an FSAVC wouldve appeared more attractive to her at the time. I dont 
agree though, and thats because, as a member of the teachers final salary pension 
scheme, she wouldve known what monthly contribution she was making to the scheme and 
it wouldve been relatively straightforward to determine what income that premium would 
yield, albeit if only approximately. So, its for that reason that the prospective returns of the 
FSAVC wouldve appeared more attractive based on the projections that Mrs I was provided 
with at the time.
Ive already acknowledged that, although theres evidence on the file of a discussion having 
taken place in 1995 about the option of in-house AVCs and added years, the file is silent on 
what the outcome of that conversation was. But however brief that discussion was, it seems that the option of using added years was highlighted but Mrs I continued with the FSAVC. 
And importantly, as Ive already pointed out, even by making Mrs I aware of the existence of 
in-house AVCs, it wouldve then been up to her to contact her employer, and at that point, 
she would have been provided with information only about added years. It would have then 
been up to Mrs I to make a decision on what she preferred.
Mrs Is representative has also said that, despite having disposable income, Mrs I chose not 
to increase the capital invested in her PEP in 1992 and that, they say, pointed towards an 
added years investment. However, I fail to be persuaded  and thats because its not 
uncommon for consumers to place more weight, and therefore resources, on one priority 
need over another at different times. And, as Ive already explained, the 1992 fact-find does 
suggest that the deposit monies at that time were being used in part to fund private school 
fees, so I can well understand Mrs I not immediately wishing to further fund her PEP. The 
focus of the March 1992 meeting was retirement planning, but the PEP investment was 
revisited only a year later. 
Mrs Is representative has said that I shouldnt take account of the fact that she retired early 
from teaching in 1998, but I dont agree. I think its relevant because Mrs I said in 1992, 
when she took the FSAVC plan out, that she was considering retiring early. And, as Ive 
already pointed out, if Mrs I had no plans to work to the schemes normal retirement date, 
given the likelihood of an actuarial reduction on the added years option, on the face of it, that 
route wouldnt appear to represent particularly good value for money and I believe would 
have pointed her towards the money purchase path.
Mrs Is representative has said that it was implausible to suggest that anyone willing to 
contribute the maximum 9% of their salary to a FSAVC would not have purchased added 
years, just because they would not have reached the maximum 40 years. As Ive already 
explained though, just because Mrs I decided to pay 9% of her salary into the FSAVC, it 
doesnt automatically point to her definitely opting for the added years AVC  its not as 
simple as that. Whilst the consumers budget is a factor, so are their wider financial 
circumstances such as their risk profile, their other assets, time until retirement and existing 
pension benefits, along with their other personal circumstances; for example Mrs Is financial 
reliance on her partner. 
So, having looked closely at the feedback that Mrs Is representative has made about the 
provisional decision, Ive not seen anything new thats made me change my mind  as such I 
think it more likely than not that Mrs I wouldve opted for the money purchase AVCs. It 
therefore follows that I have reached the same decision, for the same reasons, that I set out 
in my provisional decision above. 
Putting things right
LV have already agreed to undertake a charges redress calculation, in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance rules. Therefore, my final decision is that they should 
undertake that comparison in line with the rules that are set out by the regulator.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to undertake a 
charges comparison on Mrs Is FSAVC against the in-house money purchase AVC and I 
think that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.So, my final decision if that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited should undertake 
the charges comparison above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman