DRN-2894773
The complaint
Miss A complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclaycard) when she asked it to process a chargeback.
What happened
Miss A completed the purchase of a package holiday in January 2020 at a total cost of 
£2,635. She paid £2,536 to an online travel agent on 31 January, having made a payment of 
£99 some months earlier as a deposit to secure the holiday. She made the £2,536 payment 
using her Barclaycard.
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. Miss A says that the country she was due to 
fly to had already imposed restrictions on visitors and she knew her holiday would not take 
place.
A short time later, the airline notified her that her flights were cancelled but the travel agent 
would only offer Miss A a credit voucher, valid until end February 2021. Miss A didnt want a 
credit voucher, so she contacted Barclaycard to ask it to help her get her money back. 
Miss A told us:
she put in a claim with Barclaycard by completing and returning a dispute form on 
25 March, but it was several months later, and only after a number of telephone calls, 
that the bank contacted her for additional information about her claim;
the bank credited her account in August with the £2,536 shed paid the travel 
company in January, but it didnt refund the £99 deposit that shed paid some months 
earlier; and it had charged interest on her credit card account when it shouldnt have 
done;
shes unhappy with the service Barclaycard provided; she says her claim took too 
long and the bank made a number of mistakes including crediting her account with 
more than £6,000 for no reason at all. Miss A told us about her personal 
circumstances and explained how Barclaycards actions had simply added to her 
stress, worry and anxiety.
Barclaycard confirmed that Miss A had first disputed the payment in March 2020. It said it 
wasnt until June that it was in a position to contact her to request the additional information 
it needed so it could help her with her claim. It told us it needed information about flight 
times, dates, passenger details and accommodation to give it the best opportunity of 
ensuring a successful chargeback claim. It said it credited her account with £2,536 on 
19 August.
The bank told us that the dispute form Miss A completed in March 2020 made no reference 
at all to the £99 deposit  it had been completely unaware of this transaction  but as soon 
as our Service highlighted it and Miss A supplied the bank with the necessary information, it 
credited her account. And it corrected the mistakes it had made in respect of the interest it 
had charged.
Barclaycard told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all 
categories of dispute were very seriously delayed. Barclaycard apologised for the 
inconvenience its customers experienced but said this had been outside its control. It said it 
had received thousands of travel claims to work through and it had done this as quickly as 
possible.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld and he 
asked Barclaycard to pay Miss A £50 compensation in recognition of the poor service it had 
provided and the worry and anxiety it had caused her. He said the errors it made with the 
interest charged to Miss As account and the mistake it made when it processed a 
transaction of £6,000 through her account wouldve added to her worry at the end of what 
was already a long and stressful process.
Barclaycard accepted our investigators opinion and said it would pay Miss A £50.
Miss A disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Miss A says our recommended 
compensation doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Miss A received from Barclaycard. This is because although Miss A paid for a package 
holiday that she wasnt able to take, both parties have confirmed that the chargeback was 
successful and the money was credited to Miss As bank account.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Miss A 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Miss A paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Miss A wasnt provided with the goods that she originally paid 
for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback for her, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within Visas 
chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Barclaycard to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. It took 
nearly three months to establish that it needed further information from Miss A, and it made 
a number of mistakes in the weeks that followed. Thereafter, the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes and the time taken for the money to reach Miss As 
account was in line with what I would expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Miss A. 
Shed booked a package holiday, and from what shes told, her experience with the travel 
agent wouldve caused her anxiety. It confirmed it would issue a credit voucher to Miss A, 
but Miss As wanted a full refund  it was possible she didnt plan to use its services again.
But I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the travel agent 
who caused the initial problems here as it didnt give Miss A her money back when it seems 
it should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Miss A first contacted Barclaycard, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service Barclaycard provided. I think it shouldve better 
explained to Miss A the chargeback process and the likely timescales and I think it couldve 
obtained the additional information it needed from Miss A sooner. I say this because 
Miss As personal circumstances meant she was already dealing with worry and anxiety and 
I think the poor service, delays and mistakes made by Barclaycard in dealing with her claim 
wouldve caused Miss A additional worry and anxiety. So, Im going to increase the 
compensation that Barclaycard should pay Miss A to £100 in total.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss A £100 in recognition of the poor 
service it provided and the worry and anxiety it caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman