DRN-1052801
Complaint 
Mr H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background
Between December 2017 and April 2019, Mr H borrowed 8 loans from MoneyBoat. His 
borrowing history is as set out below: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 29/12/2017 03/01/2018 6 £250.00
2 22/01/2018 05/02/2018 6 £200.00
3 21/02/2018 01/03/2018 4 £340.00
4 16/04/2018 29/06/2018 3 £200.00
5 06/08/2018 01/11/2018 3 £200.00
6 05/11/2018 07/01/2019 4 £250.00
7 18/03/2019 26/03/2019 6 £200.00
8 02/04/2019 outstanding 6 £700.00
 
I understand there is still an outstanding balance in respect of loan 8. 
MoneyBoat offered to settle Mr Hs complaint by removing half of the interest in respect of 
loan 8. Mr H did not accept that offer and he brought the matter to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2 to 8. She said that 
with regard to loans 2 to 5, MoneyBoat should have known Mr H could not sustainably repay 
his borrowing. And from loan 6, the pattern of borrowing was otherwise harmful. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree with that view. It said its checks were proportionate given the 
infancy of the lending relationship. As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, 
the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
 
My findings Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicators conclusions. 
Neither party disagreed with what our adjudicator said in respect of loan 1, so I havent 
considered further whether this loan was lent irresponsibly. However, I have kept the 
circumstances surrounding this loan in mind when considering the borrowing as a whole. 
I can see that when Mr H applied for loans 2 to 5, MoneyBoat undertook a credit check each 
time. When he applied for loan 2, Mr H had over £44,000 in outstanding unsecured debt. He 
had defaulted on 4 accounts in the last 12 months and had utilised 96% of his available 
credit. He had opened 10 accounts in the 12 months prior to this application. By loan 5, his 
unsecured debt had increased to over £48,000. Looking at those credit reports, I think MoneyBoat should have been on notice that Mr H was 
in financial difficulty. MoneyBoat argued that it was not feasible for an underwriter to 
scrutinise every line of a credit report. However, the information I have set out above was 
contained neatly on the first two pages of those reports. And having seen that information, I 
think MoneyBoat should have gone on to fully consider Mr Hs financial position. 
Had it done so, I think it would have seen that Mr Hs expected monthly repayments towards 
those unsecured debts alone was roughly the equivalent of his monthly income. That does 
not take account of his housing costs, other priority debts and living expenses. I think it 
should have been clear to MoneyBoat that Mr H could not sustainably afford to repay loans 2 
to 5. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If that was so, MoneyBoat should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I agree with our adjudicator that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point MoneyBoat ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. He had taken out 6 loans in less than a year.  So MoneyBoat 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances. It should 
have known his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £250 and loan 6 was for the same amount. At this point 
MoneyBoat ought to have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed. Loan 8 was taken out 
16 months after the first. And it was for a considerably larger amount. Mr H had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MoneyBoat over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Mr H lost out because MoneyBoat continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit. 
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 2 to 5 and loans 6 to 9. MoneyBoat will 
need to put things right. 
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr H loans 2 to 8. If, MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding 
debts, it must buy them back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy the debts back, it 
must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below: 
a. MoneyBoat must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything that has already been refunded; b. MoneyBoat must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments to the date the complaint is settled; 
c. MoneyBoat must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they 
had been repayments of principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H 
having made overpayments, MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8%* 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the 
amounts calculated in paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to step (e); 
d. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be repaid to Mr H. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance, MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr H. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written off;
e. MoneyBoat must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
respect of loans 2 to 5. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 
means any information recorded about them is adverse. MoneyBoat must remove 
these loans entirely from Mr Hs credit file. It does not have to remove loan 8 from the 
credit file until it has been paid. But it must remove any adverse information recorded 
about it.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding this complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman