DRN-3952418
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) is holding her liable for 
loans which she says she took out because of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mrs P says she was deceived by a scammer into taking out several loans with different 
lenders, making payments to her crypto wallet and then moving the funds onto the scammer.  
Mrs P explains that in February 2022, the scammer cold called her and pretended to work 
for a cryptocurrency financial services company.  On the back of that, she says the scammer 
persuaded her to make the payments she did, in order to recover £30,000 she had 
previously lost to a cryptocurrency scam.  
The two loans disputed in this matter are for £13,500 (First Loan) and £10,000 (Second 
Loan), which were taken out on 24 and 28 February 2022 respectively.  The payments 
disputed in this matter were made during February and March 2022 and amount to about 
£23,000 in total.
Mrs P contacted First Direct about the above asking it to write off the loans and amend her 
credit file accordingly.  Unhappy with its response, she raised a complaint and referred it to 
our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mrs P did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Loans
Mrs P accepts that she knew the scammer was applying for the First Loan.  Further, in the 
course of one of Mrs Ps telephone calls with First Direct on 28 February 2022, she 
confirmed she applied for the Second Loan.
So, on the face of it, Mrs P had knowledge of both loans and thereby consented to them 
being taken out in her name.  I do acknowledge that Mrs P argues she was deceived into 
doing so.  However, this does not negate the fact that she consented to the loans being 
taken out.  Therefore, it would not be fair of me to ask First Direct to write off the loans.
Mrs P has raised concerns about an attempted First Direct loan application in her name for 
£18,000, which was applied for on 25 February 2022.  She argues that this attempted 
application should have alerted First Direct and therefore it should not have processed the 
Second Loan on 28 February 2022  notwithstanding the fact she accepts applying for it.  I 
have reflected on Mrs Ps argument.  Having done so, I do not think the attempted 
application in and of itself meant that First Direct should not have processed the Second 
Loan.  Further or alternatively, when First Direct questioned Mrs P about the attempted loan 
on 28 February 2022, she confirmed, amongst other things  that she may have applied for it 
by accident, but then changed her mind.  For these reasons, I cannot accept the proposition 
that First Direct should not have processed the Second Loan because of the attempted loan 
application.
Intervention
I can see that First Direct had intervened on several occasions and spoke to Mrs P about 
some of the payments she had attempted.  These calls occurred on 24, 25 and 28 February 
2022.  Having listened to these calls, I do feel First Direct could have gone further in their 
questioning and the scam warnings it provided.  However, I take the view that even if First 
Direct had gone further, this would not have made a difference in the circumstances.  That 
is, I am persuaded Mrs P would have gone ahead with the payments regardless.
To my mind, it is clear Mrs P was determined to make the payments she wanted to.  I say 
this because during the calls concerned, Mrs P said she wanted to make the transfers to her 
C and/or N account to be able to purchase Bitcoin.  She never revealed the true reason 
behind why she wanted to make her payments: that is, to recover money she says she lost 
to a previous scam.  Mrs P was either persuaded by the scammer to lie to First Direct, or she 
did so off her own accord.  Either way, by not revealing the truth behind her payments, 
suggests, to my mind, that even if First Direct had gone further during the calls  Mrs P 
would have insisted on the payments being processed.
The above proposition is further supported by the fact that despite Mrs P having doubts 
about the scammer  to the extent of recording her interactions with him  she still went 
through with the payments concerned.  Mrs P even went to the extent of considering selling 
her home to obtain more money to pay the scammer.  The spell under which Mrs P says she 
was under was only dispelled once the police attended her home following her meeting with 
a property buyer about selling her home.  Mrs P has said, It is terrifying to think that my 
situation could be any worse, but it so nearly was.  To my mind, this shows the lengths to 
which Mrs P was willing to go to in continuing to make payments to the scammer.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that if First Direct had questioned Mrs P further, 
provided more robust scam warnings and/or intervened more in her payments  these things 
would have made a difference in the circumstances.  In my judgment, Mrs P would have 
gone ahead with the payments regardless.
I have thought about whether First Direct should have had such strong concerns after 
speaking with Mrs P that it should have refused to process her payments anyway.  In my 
view, I can see why First Direct did not take such action.  I say this largely because every 
time First Direct spoke to Mrs P, she provided a plausible story about why she wanted to 
make her payments (see above).  I have not heard anything during the calls in question which suggests that First Direct should have continued to be concerned about Mrs Ps 
payments.  In my view, during each call, she was able to alleviate any concerns First Direct 
may have had, and in doing so, assured it all was well.
Ultimately, banks have to balance their duty to follow their customers payment instructions, 
with their duty to protect their customers from financial harm.  However, if the banks 
customer puts forward compelling and persuasive reasons as to why they want to make a 
payment which may put them at risk of financial harm  then this can seriously frustrate the 
banks attempts to identify fraud and protect their customer from such harm.  This is what, to 
my mind, has happened in Mrs Ps case for the reasons I have set out above.
Ancillary points
I acknowledge the personal circumstances Mrs P has described, which she says played a 
part in her being scammed.  However, I have not seen anything which suggests First Direct 
was aware of these circumstances at the time, so I cannot fairly say it should have done 
more in this respect.
Mrs P has expressed concerns about First Directs customer service/communication.  That 
is, she is unhappy that First Direct: did not provide reasons for declining her fraud claim; 
recorded late payment markers on her credit file after it told her repayments would be 
paused; and the fact that thereafter, First Direct did not inform her that it had amended her 
credit file.  I accept that First Directs customer service/communication could have been 
better.  However, I do not take the view that these points warrant compensation  particularly 
given the fact First Direct amended Mrs Ps credit file regarding the late markers; and 
although First Direct did not provide reasons for declining Mrs Ps fraud claim, she is 
ultimately in the same position she would have otherwise been in had such reasons been 
given.
As the investigator in this matter stated in her findings, if Mrs P would like access to her 
online banking again  she should contact First Direct.  Given the circumstances of this 
case, I do not find that it was unreasonable of First Direct to suspend Mrs Ps online banking.
I note Mrs P says other banks have found in her favour.  However, I consider matters on a 
case by case basis, so I am unable to comment on what other banks have decided.  I also 
note Mrs P says the police have been involved in this matter.  Whilst this may be the case 
and Mrs P has been a victim of a scam, this does not take away from the fact that she 
consented to the First Direct loans being taken out in her name.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking First Direct to do anything further in 
this matter.  I find that it is fair for First Direct to hold Mrs P liable for the loans concerned if it 
wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman