DRN-2588812
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the increases on his home insurance policy premiums, held with St 
Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP). 
What happened
Mr Gs home insurance policy with StAIP started in May 2005. It initially cost £218.70 a year. 
Mr G didnt engage with the cost of the insurance at renewal from 2006 until 2017 and the 
policys cost slowly increased over the years. In 2016, Mr Gs annual premium had gone up 
to £594.18.
Mr G said he was unhappy that the policy cost had gone up around £50 each year, and he 
shopped around in 2017 to get alternative insurance with a different provider for around £90 
a year.
Because of this, Mr G complained to his bank through which his insurance with StAIP had 
been arranged. He said hed been treated unfairly and had been overcharged for many 
years, despite never making a claim under the policy.
StAIP reviewed Mr Gs concerns. They said that as a loyal customer Mr G had expected the 
premiums they offered would be competitive. They said that though Mr G wasnt prevented 
from shopping around, his loyalty made him unlikely to do so. Because of this, StAIP made 
the following offer to try to resolve the complaint:
A refund of £100.89 to account for the amount Mr G overpaid for his policy over the 
years. They said theyd also add simple interest at 8% per year from 2011 to the date 
of settlement.
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr G went through in trying to get his 
complaint sorted out

Our investigator felt that this offer was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. Mr G 
didnt agree and so his case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 27 January 2021. I said:
As Mr G will see, Im going to uphold this complaint. However, he may still be disappointed. 
StAIP has made an offer to try to resolve the complaint and I believe the offer is fair and 
reasonable taking all the circumstances into account. I understand that Mr G doesnt think 
StAIPs offer is good enough. But I dont intend to ask StAIP to do more than theyve offered 
to do. Id like to explain why. 
First, I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different 
premiums based on that assessment of risk. Its up to an insurer to decide what it charges 
for insurance. 
Second, I note that the home insurance market has become increasingly competitive. It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated 
with the risk of insuring a property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
customers and get that initial discount back over future years. I dont think this is unfair. 
But I can look at whether StAIP treated Mr G fairly during the time he held his home 
insurance policy with them. StAIP have made an offer to reduce the premium Mr G was 
charged between 2012 and 2016. Having carefully considered the offer, I think it represents 
fair compensation. StAIP have explained the pricing increases from 2005 to 2011. From the 
information theyve provided I cant see that these werent fair in the circumstances. Theyve 
recognised that Mr G was overcharged from 2012 onwards and have offered to refund him 
the difference between what he paid and what they think a fair price wouldve been in the 
circumstances. Having reviewed how theyve calculated what they think a fair price would 
be, I think the amount theyve offered to refund is fair and reasonable. I appreciate this 
amount is much less than Mr G may have been expecting. But StAIP have explained to me 
why they think this is reasonable and Ive found no reason to disagree with them. 
Mr G thinks that because he got a policy with another insurer for around £90 in 2017, this 
shows he was being overcharged. I understand why Mr G thinks this. But I note that the new 
insurance he got was likely to have included a new customer discount. As I explained above, 
I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount for the whole time someone 
has their policy. So, while I hope the policy Mr G got from 2017 remains competitively priced, 
its likely to increase in price over the coming years.
There could be other reasons why the alternative insurance was cheaper, for example the 
other insurer simply may not place the same risk as StAIP placed on the property. But that 
doesnt mean that StAIPs assessment of the risks were wrong or that it was treating Mr G 
unfairly. So I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between the StAIP 
policy and the new policy.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen anything to suggest that StAIP increased Mr 
Gs premiums unfairly.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr G has accepted StAIPs offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G has accepted StAIPs offer, I see no reason to change the conclusions in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
  I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay the following, as per their offer to this service: 
A refund of £100.89 to account for the amount Mr G overpaid for his policy. Theyll 
also add simple interest at 8% per year from 2011 to the date of settlement.
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr G went through in trying to get his 
complaint sorted outSt Andrews Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Mr G accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
*If St Andrews Insurance Plc consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.  I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to 
pay the amounts outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman