DRN-3384591
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited placed a fraud marker against her name.
What happened
Miss A had an account with Starling. In March 2021 Starling received two reports from third-
party banks informing it that Miss A had received payment from one of its customers that 
was as a result of fraud.
Starling restricted Miss As account and looked into the allegations made. Having done so, it 
concluded that it would close Miss As accountproviding 7 days noticeand loaded a 
fraud marker against her name on the Cifas database.
Miss A later discovered the marker placed against her name and made a complaint to 
Starling. She told it that she had suffered domestic abuse at the time of the incident and 
hadnt authorised the payments in or out of her account.
Starling looked into Miss As concerns but didnt think the evidence available supported 
Miss As testimony. As such, it decided to retain the marker held against her name.
Miss A asked our service to look into things again. An Investigator looked into the evidence 
provided by both parties and contacted Starling to inform it of Miss As vulnerabilities. As a 
gesture of goodwill, Starling agreed to remove the marker from the Cifas database, but it 
didnt agree compensation was justified. It pointed out that Miss A was unable to provide any 
supporting evidence regarding her circumstances.
The Investigator agreed with Starling. He found that Miss A was unable to provide any 
evidence to support the testimony shed given and that shed provided conflicting accounts. 
Therefore, he felt the removal of the Cifas marker was a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Miss A disagreed. She felt the Cifas marker had a detrimental impact on her and worsened a 
number of medical conditions she was suffering with. She also had financial accounts closed 
and was unable to open others, which she relied upon due to her vulnerabilities. Miss A felt 
that this justified compensation in the circumstances.
As Miss A disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for a business to load a Cifas marker against a persons name, it must adhere to the 
guidance set out by Cifas in its handbook. Among other things, members of Cifas must be 
satisfied that the following evidential requirements are met prior to loading a marker:
There are reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted, and;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject [Miss A] to the police.
Broadly speaking, my interpretation of these requirements is that a member cant report a 
customer based on mere suspicion. There must be strong evidence to show that the 
customer was deliberately dishonest in the conduct.
Here, its clear that the first of the above two points had been met. Starling received two 
reports from two separate banks that Miss A had received funds into her account thatd 
originated from fraud. Both sending accounts reported a similar fraud in that theyd paid for 
pets online and never received them. They also reported that after sending the money, they 
were blocked from contacting the seller. 
I appreciate that this doesnt specifically show Miss As involvement, but it does support 
reasonable grounds that a fraud had been committed. So, Ive gone on to consider if Starling 
met the second requirement above.
Starling did carry out an investigation prior to loading the marker against Miss As name. It 
contacted Miss A and asked what her knowledge and involvement in the fraudulent activity 
was. This was done via written communication through an online chat facility on her mobile 
banking. Starling received a response that the payment was a gift from a family friend. 
Starling did ask for evidence to support this testimony, but none was provided. It then went 
ahead and loaded the fraud marker against Miss As name and closed her account.
Miss A has since said that it wasnt her communicating with Starling on the chat. Shes told 
our service that she was in an abusive relationship at the time and that her ex-partner had 
control of her phone. However, Starling wasnt on notice of this at the time. It had no reason 
to disbelieve it was talking to Miss A through the secure chat and hadnt been previously 
informed of Miss As circumstances and vulnerabilities. So, I dont find it was unfair of it to 
place the marker at this time. It had two confirmed reports of fraud and an unevidenced 
defence: and this meets the requirements set out by Cifas.
Miss A later complained to Starling and on this occasion informed it that she was suffering 
domestic abuse at the time. Starling asked for any evidence Miss A had to support this and 
was supplied with a crime reference number and an officers name. However, Starling was 
unable to corroborate Miss As testimony using this information as it didnt have the relevant 
permission to contact the police on Miss As behalf.
I recognise that this placed both parties in a very difficult position. Miss A was unable to 
supply any further information to support her testimony and Starling was unable to verify 
Miss A had been a victim rather than a willing participant in the fraud. 
I recognise that Starling could have followed up on Miss As testimony further and tried to get 
more information from her to decide either way. But even had it done so, it would have been 
left in the same position considering Miss A doesnt possess any further evidence to support 
her testimony.
However, our service has disclosed Miss As health conditions to Starling and asked it to 
reconsider its position. And Starling has taken this on board and decided to remove the 
marker. I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances and Im pleased to hear Starling 
has recognised the impact the marker was having. But I think its unreasonable to expect 
Starling to pay compensation for the impact the marker had consider it has adhered to the 
standards expected from Cifas when loading the marker. And I dont think it can be held 
liable for not knowing Miss A wasnt the person corresponding with it when it questioned the activity.
For the above reasons, I find that the removal of the marker is the fairest outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint for both parties.
Furthermore, for the same reasons, I find that the account closure was also fair. Starling 
wasnt aware of Miss As vulnerabilities at the time it closed the account. It had received a 
report of fraud and had been provided an unsupported explanation about the activity from 
what it thought was Miss A. This posed a significant risk to the bank, and in line with its 
terms and conditions was fairly closed to prevent any further criminal activity. Starling also 
took the additional measure of providing 7 days for Miss A to find alternative banking 
arrangements rather than closing the account immediately. 
I realise that this placed Miss A into difficult circumstances considering her health concerns. 
But Starling was unaware of these at the time and had to weigh the risk the account posed 
to the bank with the impact the account closure would have had on Miss A.
For the above reasons, I wont be asking Starling to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman