DRN-3701874
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his stocks and shares ISA account he held with Wealthsimple 
UK Ltd (Wealthsimple) which he says was fraudulently sold and the funds were transferred 
to an account not in his name. He says Wealthsimples response to the situation has been 
inappropriate, there had been a significant lapse in security protocols and its process for 
responding to the fraud wasnt fit for purpose.
What happened
On 1 November 2021, Mr S found out that his stocks and shares ISA had been fraudulently 
sold on 26 October and cash withdrawn.
After he discovered the fraud Mr S complained to Wealthsimple. It didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said;
Mr S told Wealthsimple he had spotted unusual activity on his email account and had 
several hundred suspicious emails. He deleted those emails and changed his 
password.
Mr Ss Wealthsimple account was logged into on 23 October 2021. It didnt require a 
password reset which indicated Mr Ss login details were already known. Mr Ss bank 
account details were changed, and withdrawal set up to be paid to the recipient bank 
 who I will refer to as Company A in this decision. Two factor authentication 
security settings were sent to Mr Ss email which it transpired had already been 
compromised.
Wealthsimples security certificate had been replaced before the previous one had 
expired but customers who used old operating systems may receive an error as 
those operating systems retrieve the old certificate. But the connection wasnt any 
less secure.
It was apparent that the details of Mr Ss account with Wealthsimple and the source 
of his two-factor authentication was compromised outside of Wealthsimple. Its 
security procedures were adhered to. It appears that someone had access to Mr Ss 
login details and with access to his information along with access to his email 
account the fraudster was able to proceed with the withdrawal to the new bank 
account.
It had contacted Company A to see if the funds could be recalled.
Mr S wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He said it wasnt his email that had been hacked but Wealthsimples security 
certificate that had expired. The fraudsters were able to change his phone number and bank 
details and he should have received security checks but didnt. The recipient bank confirmed 
the account wasnt set up in his name. Wealthsimple should employ additional securities 
measures. When he contacted Wealthsimple it didnt seem to know what to do and didnt 
handle the issues well.
He wants the value of his ISA repaid to him  £20,606.21, plus any investment gains he has 
missed out on, compensation for the stress and worry, and costs incurred relating to identity 
theft such as replacing his passport etc. He said the weeks following the theft were the worst 
of his life.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;The account was accessed remotely using Mr Ss login details and there were no 
failed password attempts.
Mr S said that when he was having his computer rebuilt, he was advised by the 
technician that there was malware and Mr S concluded that had been uploaded 
because of Wealthsimples out of date security certificate.
After reviewing the security evidence provided by Wealthsimple, the investigator 
thought it was likely that evidence was more reliable than the computer technicians. 
And just because a third party was able to circumnavigate Wealthsimples security 
systems didnt meant they werent fit for purpose.
The withdrawal of the funds was automated and without any human involvement. 
Wealthsimple had carried out its two-step authentication process and sent the 
appropriate emails. The funds were sent to a bank account in Mr Ss name which 
wouldnt have prompted further investigation.
The investigator couldnt identity a time when Wealthsimple should or could have 
been aware the actions were being carried out by a third party.
Wealthsimple had acted quicky once it was aware of the problem and the investigator 
wasnt convinced that if it had acted differently, it would have led to a different 
outcome.
In conclusion, the investigator didnt have sufficient evidence to say Wealthsimple 
had acted incorrectly or had made an error that led to the fraud taking place.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the outcome. He said;
The fact that his bank account details, and phone number were changed within a 
short time, and the funds withdrawn should have raised red flags with Wealthsimple.
It was unfair that Wealthsimple had numerous security experts to support its 
argument rather than the word of himself as a layman  he had seen the out of date 
security certificate.
Company A was also at fault.
He had evidence to show that the recipient bank account was not in his name. And 
Wealthsimple had to use a third-party app to match accounts as its own security 
procedures didnt have this facility  they werent fit for purpose.
He wasnt happy with the approach Wealthsimple had taken with his complaint. His 
world was imploding during that time.
The investigator confirmed he had seen evidence to show that the recipient bank account 
was in Mr Ss name. Nothing Mr S said had persuaded the investigator to change his mind.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I should first say that Mr S has my sympathy. He has clearly been through a very unpleasant 
experience and which has resulted in him losing thousands of pounds of his own money  
money that he thought was safe.
I have carefully reviewed the information and evidence provided by both parties. And after 
doing so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mr S will be very disappointed in this outcome so I will explain how I 
have reached it.
To be clear, this decision is only about Wealthsimple. I will not be making any findings about 
Company A.
Ive taken into account what Id expect of Wealthsimple in dealing with Mr Ss requests and 
have noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the following rules in its 
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls sourcebook (SYSC):
SYSC 6.1.1 R
A firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and procedures 
sufficient to ensure compliance of the firm including its managers, employees and 
appointed representatives (or where applicable, tied agents) with its obligations 
under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to 
further financial crime.
SYSC 3.2.6 R
A firm must take reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and 
controls for compliance with applicable requirements and standards under the 
regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further 
financial crime.
For the avoidance of doubt, financial crime is defined as: any kind of criminal conduct 
relating to money or to financial services or markets, including any offence involving: (a) 
fraud or dishonesty.
Also relevant is the guidance set out within the British Standards Institution (BSI) Protecting 
customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, in 
particular, the principles that;
changes to accounts be subject to checks to verify identity,
appropriate levels of authentication be in place to validate suspicious transactions, 
such as large payments or changes to personal details
measures be in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities, such as changes 
to the operation of an account or payment of a large amount.
It is up to a business to decide how best to interpret the available guidance and ensure the 
relevant requirements and responsibilities are met. So, there is an unavoidable element of 
subjectivity involved in assessing a complaint such as Mr Ss. But Ive considered all of the 
evidence in reaching my conclusion.
A request for a full withdrawal from the account might not, in itself, have been sufficient to 
prompt Wealthsimple to take additional steps to verify the authenticity of the request. But 
when the request for a full withdrawal was combined with a recent request for a change in Mr Ss payment destination, I think this created a set of circumstances under which its 
reasonable to expect Wealthsimple to have taken additional steps to verify the requests. 
Doing so would have been a prudent step and would have been in line with the relevant 
industry guidance.
Im satisfied it did do this, by sending two separate emails to Mr Ss email address which 
was the email address from where the requests had originated. It had no reason to think    
Mr S didnt receive those two step authentication emails. And as Mr S didnt  
understandably in the circumstances as his email had been compromised  respond to 
those emails it didnt flag up any cause for concern.
I have considered whether Wealthsimple should have sought a positive confirmation from  
Mr S prior to it accepting the changes it sent emails about  the addition of the new bank 
account and the withdrawal request. But I have also borne in mind that both requests were 
automated and there was no human involvement.
The changes were carried out to Mr Ss account on the premise the requests had stemmed 
from within the user application  Mr Ss email account which in itself wouldnt have raised 
any concerns. The password used formed part of the multi-factor authentication 
implemented by Wealthsimple  the person accessing the email also knew those log in 
details and password. As the account alterations were made within an automated 
environment and which had passed multi-factor authentication, no flags were raised and 
hence there was no suggestion of any wrongdoing. So, I dont think that Wealthsimple did 
anything wrong in accepting the change in Mr Ss account details.
I have considered Mr Ss comments about the out of date security certificate that appeared 
when he logged on to his account with Wealthsimple. Mr S has sent us a screenshot and I 
dont doubt what he saw. Mr S also told us that when he had his computer rebuilt, the 
manufacturers technician advised him that there was malware on his computer. Mr Ss 
assumption is that the malware originated from his interaction with Wealthsimple because of 
the out of date security certificate he saw. And I can see why Mr S considers that plausible.
However, I have also taken into account the evidence that Wealthsimple has given us about 
its security protocols. In the response from its security team I note it said that any interaction 
with Mr Ss account, whether legitimate or otherwise, would not have been through the web 
property hosted by its website.
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated by the lack of evidence he has about this, with the exception 
of the screenshot of the out of date certificate and what was told to him by the computer 
technician. But Wealthsimple has provided us with the valid certificate and confirmed that all 
certificates relating to this issue have never been compromised. And it provided a report to 
show the certificate did not lapse. It also said this was the only known case of fraud of this 
type that had ever occurred over its UK customer base and because of that it indicated its 
security procedures were adequate and fit for purpose.
While I am not an expert in security procedures or protocols, I find what Wealthsimple has 
said is compelling. And I am persuaded that the veracity of its security certificate and 
evidence that it hasnt lapsed to be most likely. And while I appreciate what Mr S has said, I 
think its most likely that he was the subject of a sophisticated fraud and one which didnt 
stem from his online activity with Wealthsimple or interaction with its website.
Mr S was disappointed with the service and response he received from Wealthsimple when 
he raised his concerns about the fraud on his account.
The timeline of the events is that on 23 October 2021 Mr Ss account was accessed using his log in details. New bank account details were given, and a withdrawal request was made 
on the same day. On 28 October the funds were taken from the account and credited in     
Mr Ss supposed account with Company A. Mr S contacted Wealthsimple on 1 November 
who in turn contacted Company A informing it of the fraudulent action and with a request for 
the account to be frozen. It made a further phone call and then another the next day when 
Wealthsimple was told the complaint had been escalated. After that Company A wouldnt 
discuss the matter any further with Wealthsimple. Ultimately however, the funds couldnt be 
recalled.
Wealthsimple told us that after Mr S made contact on 1 November it immediately put a 
freeze on his account and contacted its custodian bank to try and block the payment, which 
it was unable to do because of the time that had passed. It also contacted Company A to 
report the fraud. It said it pushed both its custodian bank and Company A as much as it 
could in terms of tracking down the funds but as it wasnt the account holder, the other 
parties were limited in their engagement.
I note that Wealthsimple was only able to contact Company A through its customer support 
helpline  it didnt have any direct access. And I understand it wouldnt provide as much 
information as Wealthsimple asked for, but I dont find this surprising because of its own 
security measures. I understand it did confirm with Wealthsimple that its fraud team was 
looking into it. Wealthsimple also asked its own custodian bank to contact Company A to see 
if Wealthsimple would provide any further information. And it also suggested that Mr S 
should make contact with Company A as well.
As well as the external contact, Wealthsimple told us it carried out its own internal 
investigation immediately with its local client service team and its overseas security team. 
After doing so it concluded that its own security protocols werent breached but that the 
fraudster had access to Mr Ss personal information including his account password and 
personal email account. Both of these were outside of Wealthsimples control.
According to Wealthsimples records I can see four inbound calls and eight outgoing calls 
between 1 and 9 November. These included three daily updates and confirmation that       
Mr Ss concerned had been logged as an official complaint on 9 November. Mr S was sent 
Wealthsimples final response to his complaint on 10 November. So even though no doubt 
Mr S was extremely anxious during this time and I can see that Mr S was disappointed with 
the responses he received, I am satisfied Wealthsimple acted proactively and took Mr Ss 
complaint seriously albeit the outcome not being what he would have hoped.
In conclusion, I cant identify any point that suggests Wealthsimple didnt comply with the 
rules, regulations, industry standards and its own guidelines. In my opinion it has acted as it 
should have done. Mr S has my sympathy but overall, its difficult for me to conclude that he 
has been subject to anything other than sophisticated fraudulent activity. And while 
Wealthsimples systems may not be infallible, Im satisfied they were fit for purpose. And I 
cant uphold Mr Ss complaint solely on the fact that the fraudster was able to circumnavigate 
Wealthsimples security procedures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman