DRN-3292076
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr L paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy wouldve covered 10% of the balance 
of the card for up to 12 months at a time if Mr L was unable to work through accident or 
sickness or if he was made redundant.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case. Where there is missing or insufficient 
evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Im am not upholding Mr Ls complaint that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
I think Bank of Scotland plc made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form that Mr 
L completed at the time. To get the cover Mr L had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked on 
the form. And Mr L signed the application which might suggest his agreement with its 
contents. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its 
more likely that Bank of Scotland plc wouldve made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Bank of Scotland plc didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland plc gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. 
And Ive considered that the cover would have paid out in addition to any sick pay that Mr L 
may have received and for longer than his employer would have paid him at his full rate of 
pay, most likely. And Mr L told us he had only relatively modest other means to rely on in the 
event he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. So, as this policy could have paid out for up 
to 12 months in those events, I think the policy would have been useful to him if something 
went wrong. 
So, I dont think that Mr L lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland plc might have 
done wrong. Which means Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Bank of Scotland plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Bank of Scotland plc 
didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman