DRN-4150317
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) provided 
incorrect information about what was needed to unblock its account after a security block 
was put on it. It also complains that R made an error in processing a payment instruction.
R is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr T.
What happened
Metros systems flagged potentially suspicious activity on Rs account, so Metro put a 
restriction on the account in accordance with its usual processes. Two days later, Metro said 
one of Rs directors would need to visit a branch of Metro and reset his details in order for 
the block to be released. He did this the following day and was told it could take up to 
24 hours for the block to be lifted.
When the block hadnt been removed the following day, Mr T phoned Metro, which 
suggested he visit the branch to resolve the issue. When he did so, it turned out that R 
should have been told that all three signatories to the account would need to visit the branch 
in order for the block to be lifted. They then did so, and the block was removed the next day.
A couple of weeks later, there was a further problem when R gave Metro a telephone 
instruction to make a payment. The payment wasnt processed correctly, and Mr T had to 
call Metro again to chase it up. The payment was processed later that day.
Mr T says Metros service was poor. He says it wasted a significant amount of company 
directors time, which affected the running of the business. 
Metro accepts that it could have provided better service, and its credited Rs account with 
£250 to apologise. Mr T doesnt consider this to be enough. He believes £6,800 would be a 
fair amount to compensate it, based on the directors hourly rate of £300.
One of our investigators considered Rs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought Metro had been reasonable to place restrictions on the account. But 
he accepted that Rs directors had had to spend more time resolving the matter than they 
would have if theyd been correctly advised at the outset. He said he hadnt seen anything to 
show that there was a financial loss to R as a result of Metros service. He accepted that R 
and its directors had experienced some inconvenience. But he thought that the £250 offered 
by Metro was reasonable to reflect this.
R disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Metro Bank put the block on the account in accordance with its security procedures. The 
issue here is that it took longer for the block to be lifted, and resolving the situation involved 
more time on the part of Rs directors, than it should have done. This was because Metro 
initially gave incorrect information about what needed to be done. 
It's important to bear in mind that this is Rs complaint. And although a company cant suffer 
distress, it can experience inconvenience as a result of a banks actions or failures. 
In the end, the block was lifted a day later than it would have been if R had been told 
correctly at the outset that all three of the account signatories would need to visit a branch. 
I can understand Mr Ts frustration that extra phone calls were necessary, and that one of 
the signatories ended up having to leave an important client meeting to visit a branch a 
second time before the matter was resolved. And while some inconvenience was bound to 
follow from the block being placed on the account, I accept that Metro caused R some 
avoidable, additional inconvenience. 
I also accept that R was caused further inconvenience when, a couple of weeks after the 
issue with the account block was resolved, Mr T had to phone Metro to chase a payment 
instruction that hadnt been processed properly. Following the call, the payment was 
processed promptly.
I need to decide how much compensation it is fair and reasonable to require Metro to pay to 
reflect the additional inconvenience that I accept that R experienced here. 
I acknowledge that Mr T says that the fact that one of the directors had to leave a client 
meeting is likely to result in loss of business income. And he says the time spent dealing with 
the issues with the bank account could have been spent instead generating fee income for 
the company. So he considers compensation should reflect the directors hourly rate and the 
time spent. 
In this sort of situation, we consider the overall impact the banks errors had on the 
complainant, rather than compensation based on an hourly rate, as Mr T has argued should 
happen here. While I accept that dealing with the situation would have taken the directors 
away from Rs day-to-day activities, Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude, based on 
the information provided, that it caused a loss of business such that a separate award for 
financial loss ought to be made. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the £250 already paid by Metro is fair to 
reflect the inconvenience its mistakes caused to R. So I cant fairly require it to do more to 
resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation that Metro Bank PLC has already paid to R is fair. So 
I dont require it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman