DRN-1232482
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has paid for a claim he 
made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T suffered an escape of water from his bathroom. He made a claim on his buildings 
insurance policy. UKI asked one of its claims advisers to prepare a scope of works to price 
up the repairs.
Mr T wanted to use his own builder to get the works done. UKIs quote cost substantially less 
than Mr Ts. UKIs adviser spoke to Mr Ts builders to try and establish the reasons for the 
price difference. Based on that discussion, UKIs adviser added to some of the items hed 
included in the scope of works and offered Mr T an increased settlement. But he considered 
some of the works to be betterment and some of the costs to be far too high.
But UKIs offer was for around £9000 less than Mr Ts builder had quoted. It told Mr T the 
policy terms said it would only settle what remedial works would have cost if itd used its own 
suppliers to get the work done. Ultimately, UKI paid Mr T cash to settle his claim based on its 
scope of works.
Mr T was unhappy with UKIs settlement and he complained. He accepted some of the costs 
were betterment. He didnt think UKIs offer reflected the damage that had actually occurred. 
But UKI wasnt prepared to increase its offer of settlement, so Mr T asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr T had made 
it clear he only wanted his builders to do the works. She thought some of the work included 
on Mr Ts builders quote wouldnt be covered by the policy. Thats because some of it was 
betterment and some of it didnt seem necessary. She noted Mr T had been paid 
disturbance allowance even though he had a second bathroom. Overall, she felt UKI had 
treated Mr T fairly.
Mr T disagreed. He said he needed a builder to project manage the works, so the repairs 
could be done correctly. He said hed taken away everything he could from his builders 
quote and the two sums were still poles apart. He queried how UKI arrived at its labour 
rates.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided UKI has settled Mr Ts claim fairly. Ill explain why. The terms 
of Mr Ts policy set out how UKI settles buildings insurance claims. The relevant section 
states
'How we settle claims
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in section 1, we will choose to:
Manage and pay for repairing or rebuilding the damaged part using our own suppliers
Pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers, or
Make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to repair or rebuild the damaged 
part using our own suppliers.
In this case, Mr T made it clear from the start that he wanted to use his own builders, rather 
than UKIs approved repair network. So UKI chose to settle his claim on a cash payment 
basis. Mr T explained to both UKI and to us why he wanted to use his own builder and I 
accept those reasons. But in making that choice, Mr T was limited by the terms of his policy 
to a cash settlement of whatever it wouldve cost UKI to use its own repair network to get the 
repair works done.
Ive listened to the call between Mr T and UKIs claims adviser. I think the adviser made it 
very clear that if Mr T used his own builder, there was a risk that not all of the costs would be 
covered. So I think Mr T knew the potential consequences of getting his own builders to do 
the work. 
UKI asked a claims adviser to prepare a scope of works to ascertain what the repairs 
wouldve cost it. It seems that this scope of works didnt originally include some of the works 
that were necessary to reinstate Mr Ts bathroom. This became clear after the adviser spoke 
to Mr Ts builder and found out more about the extent of the damage and what needed to be 
done. I think, given the large discrepancy between the cost of UKI getting the work done by 
its suppliers and the costs quoted by Mr Ts builder, it was sensible for the adviser to get in 
touch with Mr Ts builder. It suggests to me that UKI intended to ensure it covered all of the 
costs it was liable for.
Following this discussion, UKI accordingly adjusted its scope of works to include these 
items, which then increased the settlement offer open to Mr T. I think this was the right and 
fair response on UKIs part.
I appreciate Mr T feels strongly that UKI shouldve covered substantially more of the costs of 
his repairs. Ive cross-referenced the quote and UKIs scope of works. Its clear that some of 
the items, such as preparing a programme of works and cutting in a channel to provide a 
better run are simply not covered by the terms of the policy. Much of the work included in 
UKIs scope of works is simply priced more cheaply than Mr Ts builder. 
Mr Ts builder replaced the sanitary ware in his bathroom. UKI had agreed to cover the cost 
of the shower tray and surround, but it felt the other sanitary ware couldve been refitted. 
UKIs adviser discussed this with Mr Ts builder who didnt feel the sanitary ware could be 
refitted. Ive thought about this and whether or not UKI should make a further contribution 
towards these costs.I dont think theres enough evidence to show me that the original sanitary ware couldnt be 
refitted. UKI's adviser thought it could be, it simply needed to be removed carefully. Mr T 
says it couldnt, because it had been glued and screwed in and had to be scrapped. But I 
havent any seen enough expert evidence to suggest to me that the sanitary ware couldnt 
be removed and refitted, or that it had broken and had to be scrapped.
Im not persuaded, on balance, that Mr Ts original items couldnt have been re-used once 
the repair works were done. So on this basis, I havent seen enough to persuade me to 
direct UKI to pay anything for the sink, toilet or vanity unit.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied UKI has settled Mr Ts claim fairly. I think it 
calculated the settlement in a reasonable way and Ive seen nothing to suggest its missed 
essential works or deliberately under-estimated what the reinstatement costs wouldve cost. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, Im not telling UKI to pay him anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman