DRN-3177601
The complaint
Mr J complains Aviva Insurance Limited handled his insurance claim poorly.
Aviva used agents and contractors during the claim. For ease Ive generally referred to their 
actions as being those of Aviva. 
  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr J claimed on his Aviva landlord plumbing and drainage insurance 
policy. He wanted a blocked drain in the garden of his property to be repaired. Work started 
but was stopped by the identification of asbestos in the soil. A specialist contractor was 
required to remove the asbestos before repair work could be completed. The early 2020 
pandemic lockdown intervened to stop progress. 
Further inspections were made in the summer of 2020. In October 2020 Avivas contractor 
identified two options for completing the work. These were estimated at around £7,000 and 
£9,000. Either would have exceeded the policys claim limit of £4,000. Aviva said it had 
already spent about £3,000 and wouldnt be paying for the outstanding work. It suggested 
Mr J try to claim on his property insurance policy. 
In January 2021 Aviva responded to a complaint from Mr J. It felt it had done everything 
possible within the limit of his policy to resolve the matter. It said the unfortunate presence of 
asbestos resulted in the costs of repair exceeding the policy limit. It didnt agree to complete 
the works, pay Mr J any compensation or do anything further. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wanted Aviva to complete the work, 
apologise for poor customer service and compensate him for time wasted. After our 
investigator became involved Aviva agreed to pay Mr J the difference between what it had 
spent on the claim so far and the claim limit - £1,195.  
To resolve the complaint Mr J said he wanted Aviva to obtain more quotes for the remaining 
work, apologise and pay him compensation. Our investigator didnt feel Aviva needed to do 
any of that. But he did recommend it honour an offer to refund a £30 policy excess. Aviva 
accepted his findings. Mr J didnt, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy does feature a claim limit of £4,000, so on the face of it its fair for Aviva not to 
pay any more than that towards the claim. Ive considered the expenditure its incurred so far. 
If I thought Aviva had included any unreasonable costs in its calculations, I might say it 
should disregard them. But having considered the claim and the expenditure I cant say 
thats the case here. The work and associated costs seem reasonable to me. So Avivas 
offer to pay Mr J the remainder of the claim limit, as a contribution towards the outstanding 
work, seems fair to me.
Mr Js questioned why two diggers were used by Avivas contractors. Its explained it 
couldnt have been established, until digging began, that a second machine capable of 
reaching below 2.5 metres was required. That seems reasonable to me, Ive no reason to 
doubt what Aviva says.   
According to Mr J he had agreed with Aviva that its contractor would complete the works in 
one visit, to avoid the cost of excavating twice, even if this required a contribution from him. 
He says this didnt happen, more than one excavation will be required. I havent seen 
anything, in Avivas records, to support what Mr J says about their being an agreement. 
Aviva says work wasnt completed, when might have been expected, due to the discovery of 
the asbestos and the depth of the pipe. 
Overall, Avivas explanation for the costs, and why contaminated soil wasnt removed, seem 
reasonable. Its unfortunate the presence of asbestos significantly increased the complexity 
and cost of the claim. But Aviva wasnt responsible for that. 
Im not going to require Aviva to obtain additional quotes. Mr J feels this should happen to 
avoid him being disadvantaged by anti-competitive practices. But I cant see what the benefit 
would be. It seems unlikely to me, with the presence of asbestos, that any additional quotes 
will be within, or close, to the £1,195 left on the claim limit. So Aviva would still be making a 
cash contribution towards work arranged by Mr J. It would seem more practical for him to 
arrange contractors and quotes.   
Mr J feels Avivas poor handling of the claim caused him far more inconvenience than was 
necessary. The main cause of delay and complication for this claim appear to be the 
discovery of asbestos, the unexpected depth of the pipe and the intervention of the 
pandemic. Again Aviva isnt responsible for any of those. Overall, it seems to have handled 
the claim reasonably considering the circumstances. 
Its possible Aviva could have progressed things a little quicker at certain points. Its 
communication may have caused some level of unnecessary inconvenience to Mr J. But I 
cant see that any mistakes it made caused him any significant unnecessary inconvenience 
or distress. Neither do I think Aviva caused him to loss out financially, through loss of rent for 
example. So Im not going to require Aviva to pay Mr J any more than the £30 already 
agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Aviva Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr J £1,195 towards the 
claim (if it hasnt already) and £30 compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman