DRN-3032172
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way Chubb European Group SE, trading as Combined Insurance, 
handled a claim under his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F held an Accident Hospital Cash Plan policy with Chubb European Group SE.  
In April 2019 Mr F was admitted to hospital with a perforated duodenal ulcer. He submitted a 
claim to Chubb for hospitalisation benefit, including for the time he spent in the hospitals 
intensive care unit, and convalescence benefit for the time he was unable to work.
Mr F believes his ulcer was caused by a car accident hed been involved in a few months 
earlier and wants Chubb to accept his claim. He said he felt something split inside him at 
the time of the accident and this led to an ulcer. He believes he suffered a blast type injury 
due to the impact of the collision.
Chubb declined Mr Fs claim. It wasnt satisfied the medical evidence showed the ulcer was 
a result of the car accident  or met the definition of bodily injury as required by the policy.
Mr F also complained about the service hed received from Chubb. Chubb mislaid his 
complaint letter and didnt respond in good time. Chubb apologised for its mistake and 
offered Mr F £100.00 by way of an apology.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs concerns and didnt uphold his complaint. He wasnt 
satisfied the medical evidence shows Mr F had been hospitalised solely due to the road 
traffic accident. And he acknowledged Chubb had compensated Mr F for the delay in 
responding to his complaint letter.
As Mr F remains unhappy the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the requirements placed on Chubb by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not decline claims unreasonably.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy with Chubb. The relevant 
terms say:
If the Insured suffers accidental bodily injuries received while this Policy is in force 
and in no way caused or contributed to by sickness, disease or physical disorder 
(called in this Policy Bodily Injury) then provided the premium has been paid, 
Combined will pay the following benefits.
Hospital In-patient Benefit  Any accident
If Bodily Injury shall be sustained by the Insured and shall within ninety days from the 
date of the accident causing the Bodily Injury be the sole cause of the Insured being 
continuously confined as a Hospital in-patient and provided the Bodily Injury shall 
occur: 
An accident while driving is included in the list of circumstances where the hospital in-
patient benefit might apply.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Fs accident and the treatment hes needed for his ulcer. Its clear 
hes been very unwell, and I have the upmost empathy for the impact on him.  I want to 
assure Mr F Ive considered everything provided to me, including additional information 
submitted following our investigators opinion, but I will only comment on those things I think 
most pertinent to the outcome Ive reached.
Based on everything Ive seen I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons 
so wont be asking Chubb to do anything more. Let me explain.
Im not a doctor, so its not for me to reach a finding on the cause of Mr Fs ulcer. My role is 
to consider the evidence provided to Chubb and to reach a finding on whether its decision to 
decline Mr Fs claim is reasonable.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows Mr F suffered a duodenal tear  or any 
suggestion this was considered as a cause of Mr Fs symptoms in the weeks after 
the accident. 
Mr Fs visits to his GP, his subsequent referral for hospital tests, and his visit to the 
accident and emergency department, didnt identify problems with his stomach or 
duodenum. He was treated for neck and rib pain  including being seen by a 
physiotherapist  and for high blood pressure.  
The information Ive seen, along with information published by the NHS, suggests 
duodenal ulcers are usually caused by Helicobacter pylori infection or the use of 
NSAIDs (non-steroid anti-inflammatory medication). Usually clearly doesnt mean 
there arent other causes of this type of ulcer.
Mr Fs GP believes his ulcer was related to the RTA but hasnt explained why  but 
has said he doesnt think the short course of NSAIDs prescribed to Mr F following the 
accident is the cause.  
Mr F was treated for Helicobacter pylori infection while in hospital, although it 
appears no specific serum test was carried out to establish this infection as the cause 
of his ulcer. But his treatment with antibiotics now means its not possible to say if he 
was suffering with Helicobacter pylori infection at the time of the accident or at the 
time of his subsequent surgery.
Mr Fs surgeon has said the perforated ulcer was not caused by an accident/bodily 
injury.
Mr F believes Chubb deliberately worded the questions to his GP and his surgeon in such a 
way as to avoid paying his claim, but Im not persuaded that is the case. While Chubb 
worded the questions differently, I dont think the wording was designed to force the medical 
professionals who treated Mr F to give a specific answer.  I also appreciate Mr F thinks its a failure on behalf of the medical teams that treated him that 
the definitive cause of his ulcer isnt available. But even if that was the case  and its not for 
me to reach a finding on that point - that isnt something I can hold Chubb responsible for. 
Ultimately, based on the evidence Ive seen, the cause of Mr Fs perforated ulcer hasnt 
been established and because of that, he hasnt been able to show his admission to hospital 
was directly, and only, as a result of a bodily injury (a duodenal tear) sustained in the 
accident  as opposed to sickness, disease or physical disorder.  
Im satisfied Chubb has considered the medical evidence provided to date and its not 
unreasonable for it to conclude theres insufficient evidence to accept Mr Fs claim.
I appreciate this case is important to Mr F. Hes been through a very difficult time and Im 
satisfied he believes his need for surgery and on-going treatment has been caused by his 
car accident. But the evidence Ive seen is not persuasive in that regard. However, Chubb 
has agreed to reconsider its position if new evidence emerges and I think thats the fair and 
reasonable thing to do.
Complaint letter delay - 
Chubb acknowledge it took too long to respond to Mr Fs letter received on 9 July 2020. It 
explained the letter had been received but had been incorrectly categorised on its systems. 
The complaint letter related to the assessment of Mr Fs claim. Chubb offered Mr F £100.00 
by way of an apology and I think that fairly recognises the delay caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Chubb European 
Group SE trading as Combined Insurance to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman