DRN-4120808
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated them unfairly when
closing their client deposit account.
There has been some confusion about how many complaints C has made, and which are
covered under this complaint reference so I will address that further below.
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by one of the partners, Mr Y.
What happened
C held a client deposit account (the account) with HSBC. In March 2022, HSBC wrote to C
to explain that for them to hold this type of account, they needed to confirm as a business
that they had the following:
Sufficient Anti-Money Laundering procedures to comply with the relevant regulations.
They completed Know Your Customer (KYC) checks on their customers.
They were registered with an industry body.
C told us:
HSBC closed their account without reasonable warning.
They had confirmed they were regulated to hold client funds before the account had
been closed.
HSBC said it contacted the partners, but they hadnt received anything before the
account was closed on 24 June.
They had spent significant time and effort resolving the issue and werent told by
HSBC that the account had been reopened.
HSBC told us:
It didnt think it had done anything wrong as it was meeting its regulatory obligations
by asking C to confirm it was eligible for this account type.
It had received confirmation that the partnership was registered with a regulatory
body, but it had spoken to C in March to explain that it needed all three points
confirmed for the partnership to have this type of account.
It hadnt received all the required information from C as requested, so it had emailed
the partners in April to say that this needed to be received within 7 days or the
account would be closed.
The information still wasnt received from C, so it had written to the partnership to say
that their account would be closed on 24 June.
Although the process to close the account had been started on 24 June, the account
was never actually closed at any point. It had spoken to C on 29 June and agreed
that if the three points were confirmed in writing by the partnership by close of
business that day, the account could remain open. If not, it would then be closed.
Further information was received on 30 June, but this wasnt signed in accordance
with the mandate held on file. A further extension was granted, and the information
was received on 1 July, so the account closure request was cancelled, and the
account remained open.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said that HSBC hadnt
evidenced that the account closure letter had been sent, and the bank had given C an
unreasonable timescale to reply with the additional information on 29 June. She
acknowledged that C said they had been caused reputational damage and spent time
resolving the issue but based on the evidence available she wasnt persuaded the banks
actions had caused a financial loss. So she thought HSBC should pay C £300 for the
inconvenience and the reputational damage caused as a result of the missing payments.
C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case has been
passed to me to decide.
Since the complaint was brought to the service, C raised a second complaint point that that
they had payments which werent received into their account, as a result of the banks
account closure process - which was the focus of this complaint. The partners have
explained that this caused them the reputational damage and meant they had to cover
payments from their personal account. However, this was a different complaint which was
addressed separately by HSBC.
What can I consider under this decision?
I need to decide exactly what Cs complaint is. In doing so, I have referred to our rules, 
which are available online at https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/. So, in order 
to decide how we consider Cs complaint or complaints, I must first identify the act or 
omission C has complained about. In this case, I think C has made two separate complaints 
here:
In June 2022, C complained about HSBCs decision to close their account and the
poor administration behind this including where notifications had been sent and the
timescales provided.
In July 2022, C complained about transactions which hadnt been credited to their
account because of the account closure - and had been confirmed by HSBC as being 
 in another of the banks accounts. This had caused extra work for C in locating
the missing transactions, meant theyd had to make payments using their own funds
whilst the transaction payments were located by HSBC from its accounts, and the
reputational damage caused because of the missing transactions.
In other words, Cs first complaint was about the banks decision to close their account. Cs
second complaint was about what the bank did when it said their account had remained
open and active as expected which wasnt the case. So this decision will only address Cs
first complaint and their second complaint will be addressed under a different complaint
reference.I recognise the investigators view mentioned the reputational damage caused to C as a
result of HSBCs actions and this may have caused confusion to both parties. However, I
think this should be addressed as part of the partners second complaint and therefore I will
not be addressing the reputational damage, financial loss or any impact on C as a result of
the banks action of not credited their account with the expected transactions. These
complaints points will be addressed separately as to whether or not we think HSBC made
mistakes in respect of that complaint. This decision will solely focus on whether it was fair for
HSBC to look at closing Cs account and the actions it took in communicating this to the
partners.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
C says that HSBC treated them unfairly as it closed their account without sufficient 
warning, but Im not persuaded thats the case. Its not in dispute by either party that 
C was told in March that it needed to confirm three pieces of information to keep the 
account open, and that they only provided the declaration at the time. So I think C 
ought reasonably to have been aware that as it didnt provide all the information 
requested by the bank, that it was a possibility their account would be closed at some 
point in the future.
Ive also seen that HSBC contacted C again on 1 April via email to request the 
outstanding information. C says they didnt get the email as the bank emailed one of 
the partners who had retired in December 2021, instead of the active partners. 
However Ive seen the email was sent to the address that C had registered with the 
bank. I acknowledge C feels HSBC should have checked they received the email, but 
the bank isnt obligated to ensure its correspondence is being received or actioned  
it simply sends any requests to the contact information provided by C. I havent seen 
any evidence from either party showing that this email address status was inactive or 
not in use. And ultimately its Cs responsibility to keep this information up to date as 
HSBC wouldnt be aware of any changes the company might have made. So I dont 
think the bank did anything wrong here.
C says that because the email address was incorrect, they didnt receive the
correspondence from HSBC to say that if the requested information wasnt provided, 
that their account would be closed. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say this 
because, Ive seen evidence that C called HSBC on 26 April to discuss the account 
closure correspondence theyd received. So I think its likely that the message was 
communicated to C from the retired partner, or C wouldnt have made the call to 
HSBC - two months before the account was due to close - to discuss the 
correspondence they had received.
Furthermore, the terms of Cs account say that HSBC can close the account 
immediately and without notice if it requests information that isnt provided or if it 
believes that keeping the account open would involve it breaking a law, regulation, or 
obligation that it is required to meet. In this case, HSBC needed C to confirm that 
they were eligible for this type of account due to the specific regulatory requirements, 
it isnt expected to keep an account open indefinitely without this information. So I 
think its reasonable that the bank made the decision to close the account when the information wasnt received more than three months after C had been made aware of 
HSBCs requirements.
However, I can see that when C contacted HSBC on 29 June to confirm they wanted 
the account to remain open and that they would be providing the information, the 
bank gave them a timescale of three hours to prevent the account being closed. I 
dont think this was reasonable and given that it wanted two partners to sign the 
information to say it was correct, I dont think HSBC treated C fairly here. Ive seen 
that this caused the partners distress and inconvenience whilst they made attempts 
to meet this short deadline, as none of them were in the same location.
Therefore I think HSBC should pay C £100 for the inconvenience caused here. As
mentioned above, this is solely for the inconvenience caused as a result of the banks
unreasonable timescale here. Cs complaint about the reputational damage caused 
as a result of HSBCs actions will be addressed under a separate complaint 
reference  we will then consider whether we think HSBC made any mistakes in 
respect of that complaint and if so, award appropriate redress.
I invited C and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both C and HSBC accepted the decision and had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore, as both C and HSBC have said they accept the decision and havent responded 
with any further information, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to my provisional
decision. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay C 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman