DRN-4101774
The complaint
Miss G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has a technical error which causes 
her to enter an unarranged overdraft, and this impacts her day to day living.
What happened
Miss G says that NatWest has a technical fault which sometimes causes her account to 
enter an unarranged overdraft. This impacts her as she is then unable to pay for things like 
electricity. She is also unable to pay for public transport when this happens which is crucial 
for her and her family. Miss G tried to ring NatWest about this, and she says the line went 
dead twice. She tried to contact their social media team, but they werent able to assist her, 
and neither was a branch member of staff. Miss G says she has been passed to different 
departments on the phone without any success and the web chats locked her out after 25 
minutes. Miss G made a complaint to NatWest. 
NatWest upheld Miss Gs complaint and paid £150 into her account. They said there does 
appear to have been an error with the available balance of her account when she made two 
mobile application (app) transfers of £100 and £10 to her savings account. As she had made 
point of sale payments the day before and these had been authorised, they should have 
shown as pending, and reduced the available funds to £73.50 instead of £110.00. NatWest 
said it was clear that they should have been more supportive of Miss G, and they had shared 
her poor experience with senior managers in their customer care team to take forward as a 
service improvement, and they gave her a telephone number for their customer support 
team. Miss G brought her complaint to our service. She said the same issue happened again 
the month after NatWests final response to her complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Gs complaint. She said it appears that there
is a technical issue with the mobile banking app. This resulted in some pending transactions
not being reflected correctly in the available balance. The technical fault has been reported
and is under investigation. She said this appears to still be under investigation, and they are 
in the process of finding a fix. She said although Miss G has had issues moving money from 
the savings account across to her account, NatWest were unable to find what had caused 
this. Our investigator said NatWest had investigated the matter, escalated matters to the 
technical team and provided feedback, and the compensation of £150 was in line with what 
our service would suggest. Miss G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she 
did not believe the compensation was sufficient for what she had went through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have identified that there is a technical issue which means that when Miss G 
makes a purchase with her card, this sometimes doesnt show as a pending transaction and 
her available balance appears to be higher than what it should display. So if Miss G moves 
some of this money for example to transfer this to her savings account, then when the 
purchase actually fully debits her account, this may place her in an unarranged overdraft. So 
I can understand why this would be distressing for Miss G.
NatWest are trying to develop a fix for this, but they are unable to give a timeframe for when 
this would be completed by, which again would be disappointing for Miss G as she would 
need to keep a separate list of what shes used the card for and what her balance is, then  
manually adjust this, which can be very difficult to accurately keep track of especially if she 
uses the card frequently, so it isnt an ideal solution. Unfortunately, our service has no remit 
over NatWests systems, so we are unable to instruct NatWest to change their systems or 
how they should implement the changes and in what timeframe, although we would hope 
that NatWest would realise the impact that this has on Miss G and look to complete the fix as 
soon as possible. 
Im aware that because of the technical issue, Miss G has continued at times to enter an 
unarranged overdraft. As NatWest are working on a fix, this may continue until the fix is fully 
implemented. I can see from Miss Gs statements that she is usually in an unarranged 
overdraft for 1-3 days (after the September incident), and then she usually transfers money 
from another account to bring her account out of an unarranged overdraft.
Ive read what Miss G has said about the impact of what has happened to her when her 
account goes into the unarranged overdraft. This is sometimes compounded if she is unable 
to use the app to transfer any savings she may have. NatWest have admitted that they 
should have been more supportive of Miss G. Its clear Miss G has tried a number of 
avenues from using the web chat, to phoning NatWest, to visiting a branch, to contacting 
their social media team, but often she hasnt had the assistance that NatWest ought to have 
provided here.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. I know Miss G feels the 
compensation isnt enough based on the impact that the technical error has had on her. But I 
must make Miss G aware that our awards for compensation arent designed to punish a 
business. Im persuaded that £150 is fair for what has happened. I say this as it recognises 
that Miss G has not only been distressed by what has happened, as she has been unable to 
pay for things like electricity and public transport, but she has also been inconvenienced by 
having to try a number of different channels to get support from NatWest. 
Miss G often needs to transfer money from another account so she is no longer in an 
unarranged overdraft, and the experience must be frustrating for her. But the compensation 
that Miss G received would be in line with what I would have awarded her if NatWest did not 
uphold her complaint. So as NatWest have already paid her this, it follows I do not require 
NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman