DRN-3780732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined part of their claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage from an escape of water.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr and Mrs Os home was built in 2010. In May 2019 they discovered water penetration to 
the lower ground floor of their home and called their broker and AXA. Mr O obtained a 
technical report on the cause of the damage in June 2019, which was a leaking pipe and 
then paid a builder to stop the problem.
 
Mr and Mrs Os claim was accepted, and AXA appointed a loss adjuster whose surveyor 
visited in July 2019. Dehumidifiers were used to dry the property and Mr O said he was 
promised repairs would be completed in twelve weeks. But drying wasnt successful and 
damp emerged. The surveyor decided the entire floor should be removed and replaced with 
effective waterproofing. He said the replacement would need to meet building regulations.
AXA removed the floor in August 2020, and its loss adjuster obtained an expert report on the 
waterproofing. In December 2020 AXA said it wouldnt cover this work because of building 
defects, which related to exclusion clauses in the policy and because the damage wasnt 
related to the claim. Mr O said the defects have never been specified despite his requests or 
how they relate to the claim or the building regulations required to complete the repairs. He 
said the policy covers involuntary betterment, but that hasnt been applied. AXA stopped the 
repair work and Mr O said this left his home in a compromised state with no heating.
Mr O said he then obtained a quote, anticipating AXA would resume repairs once the 
waterproofing was complete. Mr and Mrs O complained to AXA that many months were lost 
due to delays, lack of communication and changes in its agents. They said AXA shouldnt 
have rejected the technical proposal for repairs put forward by its loss adjuster. And they 
said AXAs response was confused and inaccurate. Mr and Mrs O paid for a category C 
waterproofing system in replacement for the Category A system previously installed. 
AXA responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint apologising for delays and paying £200 
compensation for this and a further £150 for poor communications, and later further 
compensation of £650, totalling £1,000. AXA explained that following the strip out work and 
drying out, an issue was found with the tanking system. AXA said theres no cover for this as 
it wasnt damaged as part of the claim incident and is suffering from a defective design.  
Mr and Mrs O referred their complaint to us and said they would like AXA to reconsider its 
decision not to pay for the repairs caused by its excavations. Mr and Mrs O also ask that the 
costs theyve already incurred are reimbursed and compensation paid for the extreme 
stress, and the severe negative impact of a claim then over two years old.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said AXA has to comply with 
building regulations when making repairs, though it doesnt have to better the property. He 
decided that the only way AXA could carry out an effective and lasting repair once it had 
completed the strip out would be to cover the new waterproofing required at Mr and Mrs Os 
home. The investigator said the compensation paid by AXA was fair in the circumstances.
AXA disagreed, saying the existing tanking is completely inadequate and fitted incorrectly. It 
said the property was built incorrectly with an inability to dry and this was nothing to do with 
the claim and AXA shouldnt be responsible for poor workmanship that happened many 
years before the start of the policy. AXA requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs O have paid for the tanking repair and AXA followed this by 
completing the repairs and restoration. I understand that AXA has paid Mr and Mrs O 
compensation of £1,000. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
I provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mr O said AXA disturbed and removed the waterproofing, including the tanking and thinks it 
should pay for the waterproofing as its a building regulation requirement. He said the 
tanking wasnt responsible for the ingress of water. 
AXA removed the flooring as part of the strip out, and said that it found the tanking to be 
inadequate and decided not to disturb it. AXA agreed that the tanking wasnt linked to the 
claim or affected by the cause of the claim, but said thats the reason it didnt have to pay for 
replacement. It said its Mr and Mrs Os responsibility to pay for tanking repairs and AXA 
would then continue with the repairs linked to the claim. 
Mr O said AXA had reneged on its commitment to pay for this work as its surveyor had said: 
it remains my view that the addition of a water proofing package of work is required to allow 
for the original reinstatement works to be completed in accordance with the Building 
Regulations. I didnt think this amounted to a commitment on AXAs behalf that it would be 
responsible for payment for this work, as Mr O suggested, but it showed the work was 
necessary in order for the reinstatement of the flooring to meet building regulations.
I said insurance policies distinguish between insured and uninsured damage, which means 
damage from an insured event that needs to be made good by the insurer, and damage that 
isnt related to an insured event. And an exclusion clause within Mr and Mrs Os policy states 
they arent covered for loss or damage due to, faulty design or workmanship or using faulty 
materials. This is a common exclusion and is intended to protect the insurer from paying to 
make good for the inadequacy or premature failure of work carried out by others.
The dispute in Mr and Mrs Os claim is repair of their tanking. AXAs loss adjuster reported 
water ingress from, a conduit laid at the time of the original build to house electrical cables 
to an array of solar panels that has yet to be installed. Following strip out a surveyors report 
in August 2020 set out the problems with the waterproofing, stating that the bonded sheet 
membrane was not extended across the slab to complete the tanking system, and the, slab 
was formed and laid without any pre-applied waterproof membrane being used. 
The report criticises the construction of Mr and Mrs Os home; it is clear that the original 
waterproofing installed during the construction phase would not comply with the then current 
code of practice. It goes on to state as a significant concern, Failure to follow an adequate 
risk assessment process when preparing a design for waterproofing giving grounds for an 
accusation of negligence against those responsible. The report recommends remedial work.
AXA considered the repair or replacement of the tanking to be uninsured (in that it wasnt 
damaged as part of the claim event) and to have arisen as a consequence of poor design and workmanship. Mr O said that since AXA decided the work plan and removed the floor, it 
had an obligation to replace it. I thought that Mr O was effectively saying that the only way to 
carry out a proper repair to the insured damage (from the escape of water) would be for AXA 
to pay for the work on the uninsured damage. 
I said our service expects an insurer to carry out effective and lasting repairs, by which we 
mean fully putting right the damage. Our investigator said the poor workmanship exclusion 
and restriction for uninsured damage shouldnt apply to Mr and Mrs Os claim as the tanking 
had to be replaced for AXA to carry out an effective and lasting repair. But I thought we must 
be satisfied that the need for the repair arose as a direct result of the insured damage. Mr O 
said that he hasnt been provided with an explanation that proves otherwise. 
I said that in previous complaints weve required insurers to pay for work such as to replace 
electrical circuits beyond what is damaged where these no longer comply with current 
regulations. This is because the electrics didnt have to meet current regulations before the 
insured damage and the upgrade is only triggered by the damage. The system needs to 
meet the regulations in order to repair the damage, so, it was as a direct result of insured 
damage that the upgrade was necessary. We have also required insurers to pay for the 
repair or replacement of tanking in other complaints, but this is where the tanking has been 
damaged as part of the insured event, or in common with the example of the electrics, its 
installation standard has been superseded by subsequent regulations. 
Mr O said the building regulations require the tanking to be correctly installed. I agreed, but 
the expert reports showed the building regulations required the same standard of installation 
in 2010 when Mr and Mrs Os home was built, but werent followed. The reports indicate the 
construction departed somewhat from the plans and I concluded that the tanking didnt meet 
regulations then, and still doesnt. I thought this distinguished the repair of the tanking from 
what might have arisen as a new requirement highlighted by the occurrence of the insured 
damage and meant the poor workmanship exclusion applied in these circumstances. 
I said we have to be satisfied that uninsured work is necessary for an effective and lasting 
repair to the insured work. In Mr and Mrs Os case the tanking repair is very desirable to help 
prevent a future incursion of water. But as the work is unrelated to the cause of the damage 
from an uncapped pipe and the tanking didnt cause the damage the work is preferable 
rather than essential. AXA stated that the insured damage could have been completed 
without the replacement of the tanking, though this would pose a risk of future damage and 
the installation would remain outside of the building regulations.
Mr O asked if AXA is required to follow building regulations, and I said that it is, but only 
when required to carry out work under the policy. I didnt think the work was covered by the 
policy and I didnt think it needed to be paid for by AXA in order to indemnify Mr and Mrs O. 
Mr O said the policy covers them for involuntary betterment, but that hasnt been applied by 
AXA. I hadnt seen any reference to this, and I thought the work was more akin to correcting 
inadequately installed tanking. I was pleased that AXA has now completed the repairs.  
I thought about the compensation for the stress caused by AXAs delays and poor handling 
of the claim. The claim stalled after the removal of the floor, leaving Mr and Mrs O facing 
large expense for the waterproofing work. I thought the drying out took longer because of the 
inadequacy of the tanking and AXA was entitled to pause the claim to consider its liability as 
issues emerged. I thought AXA should have kept Mr and Mrs O updated about their claim 
and its failure to do so caused them great distress and inconvenience.
Mr O felt that AXA didnt appreciate the severity of their circumstances concerning their age, 
expensive outlay and usability of their home. I thought the time taken by AXA exacerbated 
the situation and Mr O said they became depressed. Additionally, AXAs final response didnt fully address Mr and Mrs Os concerns and was inaccurate about work dates and heaters. I 
said AXA acknowledged the claim took far too long and paid £1,000 compensation. I thought 
this a reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs poor service. 
 
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the provisional decision, saying it was unfair for the exclusion 
clause to be applied to their claim. Mr O said they have a written statement from their broker 
confirming that they are covered for additional costs created by building regulations, 
including involuntary betterment. Mr O attached the relevant policy document. Mr O said 
theyve insured the property with their broker continuously since the house was built.
Mr O said AXAs surveyor lifted the floor but didnt know what they would face and told AXA 
that the reconstruction of the floor would be new work, subject to building regulations. Mr O 
said the building inspector told him that AXAs option of reinstalling without waterproofing 
was unacceptable and he didnt require change to the infrastructure of his home, which 
significantly reduced the cost of the installation. And that the building inspector was only 
concerned with the accepted claim. Mr O said there was only evidence of water ingress from 
outside and the cause of the damage wasnt connected to the tanking.
Mr O said the expert report of August 2020 to which I referred was a sales proposal by a 
water-proofing company pitching for work and hes surprised I placed so much reliance on it. 
He said AXA never gave a technical reason or evidence why it wouldnt cover reinstatement 
of the floor and so they couldnt contest it and had to pay for the work themselves. 
Mr O said inaccuracies in the provisional decision included an email from AXA stating, If you 
wish to leave the tanking 'as is', and we reinstate, water will continue to ingress through the 
tanking. He said there was no evidence of water ingress in the five months before this was 
sent. Also inaccurate was the quote; AXA shouldn't be responsible for poor workmanship 
that happened many years before the start of the policy. He said the building inspector and 
installer made no reference to any issue with tanking and the approved system isolated the 
claim-dependent work from any pre-existing structure. 
Mr O is also concerned about the lack of evidence from other sources within the provisional 
decision compared to our investigators letter upholding his complaint, particularly as he 
provided independent consultant reports; extensive documentation, and photos. He said he 
(Mr O) hadnt acknowledged the tanking was inadequate, as I had said. 
Mr O said it is for AXA to demonstrate it has used an exclusion clause fairly and as it agreed 
the tanking wasnt part of the claim, how could I say that it was fairly applied. He said AXA 
hasnt identified which exclusion clause it used. He said they arent asking for uninsured 
work, only work set out within the schedule of work required to meet the building regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O is concerned about the use of terminology and the description of the work on his claim 
in the provisional decision. He said that AXA removed the tanking, and has clarified this as 
the membrane. I can see this is the case from his photos and I remain of the view that AXA 
removed the damp-proof membrane, but left the tanking undisturbed. 
Mr O said the whilst undertaking the drying process AXAs loss adjuster gradually removed 
the entire lower ground floor and in July 2020 the remaining floor was removed down to its 
foundations. These were major tasks, and I can see that AXA caused considerable delays, 
including pausing the claim to consider its liability to carry out work to the tanking. I remain of the view that AXA was entitled to do this in order to consider its liability for the state of the 
tanking that was at this point uncovered. 
AXA declined to carry out work on the tanking on advice from its loss adjuster who found 
evidence of water ingress as a consequence of inadequate tanking installed during 
construction. And a further expert report which confirmed the inadequacy, stating; the 
bonded sheet membrane was not extended across the slab to complete the tanking 
system. Mr and Mrs Os expert report thought that an issue with the tanking was unlikely, 
but was compiled before the tanking was fully exposed. 
Mr O said that the reconstruction of the flooring would be considered new work by the 
surveyor and building inspector. This seems logical, and I agree that this work would be 
subject to the building regulations. But that doesnt mean that it would be covered by AXA. 
And it is this point that I have reconsidered here.
Ill firstly deal with the policy terms. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs Os 
policy covers them for insured loss or damage. Both parties agree that the tanking wasnt 
damaged by the insured event, viz the ingress of water. This means that work on the tanking 
isnt insured work and would only be covered if this was essential to carry out an effective 
and lasting repair to the insured work. Even then an insurer may decline a claim by use of an 
exclusion clause.
In my provisional decision I considered if the tanking work was required of AXA in order to 
complete a lasting and effective repair. Ive considered all of the information Mr O has 
provided about the various contractors and experts and the building inspector. Ive also 
looked again at the approach weve taken in similar cases and the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Os claim, and I remain of the view that paying for work to the tanking isnt required of 
AXA for the reasons I have set out in my provisional decision (see above). 
Mr O said its unclear where the comment within the provisional decision came from, viz, 
inescapable conclusion is that tanking didn't meet regulations then, and still doesn't. And he 
said the statement is irrelevant and the building inspector doesn't agree and made no 
demands for any retrofit of existing installations, he just specified what was required in 2021. 
This was my conclusion from the evidence I have seen.  
I can appreciate Mr Os point that the building inspector just specified what was required to 
meet the building regulations. Its not the role of a building inspector to address what is and 
isnt covered by an insurance claim and from reviewing this and other building insurance 
complaints Ive havent seen any such references. And Mr O said the work required to meet 
the building regulations was out with the claim and wasnt influenced by the inadequacy of 
the tanking. If the tanking had been adequate, then presumably there would have been no 
need for it to be upgraded. Mr O described the work as involuntary betterment which 
sounds about right, and is a point Ive dealt with further below.
For the sake of completeness I have reconsidered the exclusion clause within Mr and Mrs 
Os policy that states they arent covered for loss or damage due to, faulty design or 
workmanship or using faulty materials. Mr O is correct that AXA have to show an exclusion 
has been properly and fairly applied to a claim. He says AXA hasnt identified which clause it 
used or told him about it and didnt provide a technical reason for declining part of the claim. 
He acknowledges that AXA told him this was due to building defects.
Ive looked again at the exclusion for poor workmanship and materials set out within Mr and 
Mrs Os policy booklet. This appears to be clear and is a common feature of insurance 
policies. AXAs loss adjusters emailed Mr O on 15 December 2020 to explain; Unfortunately, we are unable to cover the tanking because the work weve done to rectify the peril related 
damage has merely brought to light the defective design/construction of the tanking system.
AXA emailed Mr and Mrs O on 12 January 2021 to confirm the tanking hadnt been designed 
correctly and added, in reference to the exclusion clause, Your insurance policy doesnt 
cover faulty workmanship or defective design. I think it would have helped Mr and Mrs O if 
AXA had provided more detail about this in response to their requests, but although brief, 
they were informed that the design of their tanking was defective and fell within the relevant 
exclusion clause. And this meant the next stage of the process became their responsibility.
Mr O sent a page of the policy document which he said shows they are covered for 
additional costs created by building regulations, including involuntary betterment. The 
document states:  
We also provide the following additional benefits: 14. Fees and other costs  After loss or 
damage insured by this section:  any extra costs you have to pay when reinstating or 
repairing the buildings to comply with Statutory Building Regulations or Municipal pr Local 
Authority Bye-Laws or EC legislation unless you were given notice of the requirement before 
the loss or damage took place. The exemption to this is stated as: Fees that you incur and 
we have not agreed to in advance. 
This is a term Id already considered and think it falls some way short of authorising costs 
involved in betterment, which isnt mentioned. The clause provides for extra or associated 
costs after damage that is insured (my emphasis), whereas I think the damage in question is 
uninsured. In addition, the costs Mr and Mrs O incurred were not agreed by AXA in advance 
as required by the clause, and notice of the requirement for their tanking was available from 
the construction of their home in the form of building regulations. Consequently, I think this 
clause provides no basis on which Mr and Mrs O can recover their costs.
In summary, we are guided by expert evidence and this indicates the tanking at Mr and Mrs 
Os home was defective. The work to make the tanking effective isnt covered by Mr and Mrs 
Os policy because its failure wasnt due to an insured event. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs Os 
policy excludes cover for faulty design or workmanship. 
Mr O says he was told by their broker the costs in dealing with additional requirements of the 
building regulations would be covered and they relied upon this assurance. Mr and Mrs Os 
broker is a separate business to AXA, and AXA isnt bound by what the broker has said. It is 
open to Mr and Mrs O to bring a complaint against the broker about this if they wish. The 
present complaint concerns AXA and so I have concentrated on AXAs actions.
Im sorry for Mr and Mrs O that they have had to meet the full costs of the installation of the 
water proofing system. I was also sorry to learn about the effect of the claim and AXAs 
handling of it on them  they have suffered a great deal of stress and inconvenience during 
this period. However, having reviewed the problems they faced and the acknowledged poor 
service from AXA, I remain of the view that the compensation of £1,000 theyve been paid is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decision the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman