DRN-3169712
The complaint
Mr C complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 Retail Finance rejected his claim 
under Section 75.
 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr C entered into an agreement with a third party for the supply of an 
outbuilding and entered into an agreement with V12.
Between March 2020 and May 2020, the roof of the outbuilding collapsed. Mr C complained 
to the supplier but was unable to resolve things, so he contacted V12 and made a claim 
under section 75.
V12 contacted the supplier. It said it hadnt installed the outbuilding but as a gesture it 
offered to provide materials for the repair and £500 towards repair costs.
V12 responded to Mr C and said that because installation wasnt part of the contract with the 
supplier, and because installation costs hadnt been financed under the finance agreement, 
it didnt agree that there had been a breach of contract.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said V12 could only be held liable for 
goods or services which it had financed. She said V12 had financed the outbuilding but not 
the installation, and that because the issue with the roof was related to the installation, this 
wasnt something she could hold V12 responsible for under section 75.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the supplier had provided the installation services and all he had 
done was pay the builder. He said the pins supplied to put the roof together werent fit for 
purpose, which meant there had been a breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Cs complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that the provisions of section 75 apply, that theres been a breach of contract and 
that V12s response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
Ive looked at all of the available information and Ive taken account of everything Mr C and 
the supplier have said.
When V12 contacted the supplier, it said that it hadnt installed the building, and that it hadnt 
provided tradesmen. It looked at the photos provided by Mr C and said that in its opinion, the 
roof collapsed because the panels had been dismantled to fit the electrics. It said that Mr C 
should pursue the builder for a remedy. 
Mr C says that he didnt arrange the installation either. He says the supplier sent a builder to 
do the work, and the builder contacted the electrician. Mr C says that the electrics were 
installed before the roof panels were fixed. He says the cause of the roof collapsing is 
because the supplier supplied stapling pins to the builder which werent fit for purpose for 
fitting the roof. Mr C says he paid the builder in cash and doesnt have an invoice.
Ive looked at the purchase invoice. This clearly shows that the supplier entered into a 
contract for supply of the outbuilding. Theres nothing to suggest that installation was part of 
the contract.
Ive also looked at the finance agreement. This shows that the cost of the outbuilding was 
financed, but theres nothing to suggest that the cost of installation was financed.
Mr C has said that he paid the builder in cash, which supports my conclusion that, on the 
evidence, the installation wasnt part of the contract with the supplier. So, if there was an 
issue with the installation which caused the roof to collapse (as the supplier asserts), this 
isnt something which the supplier or V12 can be held responsible for.
I understand that Mr C believes that the supplier supplied stapling pins to the builder to hold 
the roof together which (he says) werent fit for purpose.
Ive reviewed the installation instructions. These show pins for holding the roof up. Based on 
this, I cant say that pins were an incorrect component to supply to the builder. Theres 
nothing to suggest that anything other than pins should have been supplied.
Further, theres no evidence to show that it was the pins that caused the roof to collapse. I 
would need to see persuasive evidence from an independent expert in order to be satisfied 
on this point. 
I understand that Mr C has said that the supplier arranged the builder. The supplier denies 
this. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that this was the case. Its clear from the 
purchase invoice that installation wasnt part of the contract.
In conclusion, because the installation wasnt part of the contract, and because installation 
wasnt financed by V12, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract. Nor am I 
persuaded that the outbuilding supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality.
On the available information, I dont think V12s response to the section 75 claim was unfair 
or unreasonable. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman