DRN-2496078
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) blocked a payment from his debit 
card after he had confirmed the payment was genuine. He is concerned that Co-ops fraud 
system is not good enough.
 
What happened
Mr W has told us he contacted his motor insurance provider in March 2020 to inform them of 
a change of car. He paid the small premium adjustment with his debit card. He then also 
agreed to renew the policy, but the payment was declined. 
He says he called Co-op who confirmed that the smaller payment followed by a much larger 
one had caused the payment to be blocked. He has explained the block was lifted during the 
call. Mr W says he understood and accepted their explanation of why this payment was 
blocked.
 
However, he is unhappy that when he tried to renew his motor policy on 26 March 2020 
using the same card, the transaction was blocked again. He says he doesnt understand this 
because he had confirmed the authenticity of the transaction less than a fortnight before. 
Co-op issued their final response in April 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the card transactions were declined by their fraud system as its designed to 
detect unusual activity. They said that when this happens, they require approval from the 
cardholder. They also said they couldnt go into much detail about the fraud system for 
security reasons, but high value transactions or multiple payments for companies that are 
not usually that frequent may be a cause for concern. 
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. In the investigators view Co-op didnt 
do anything wrong by blocking the payment. Co-op accepted this view, but Mr W didnt. 
Therefore, the case passed to me. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to recognise that all banks should have appropriate security controls and 
systems in place to protect against fraud, not least to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Co-op have reasonably explained that they use a fraud system to achieve this. 
But it would be unreasonable to expect such a system to identify and prevent all fraudulent 
activity, or never to pick up transactions that subsequently prove to be genuine. I have to 
bear this in mind when considering whether Co-op have acted fairly and reasonably when 
providing payment services to Mr W. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and can see that Co-op said they 
would make a payment from an account unless they suspected fraudulent or criminal 
activity. They also explained they could block or suspend the use of payment services (in 
this case it was Mr Ws debit card) if they reasonably believe its necessary because of fraud 
or security concerns. I can see it also states that if a payment has been refused then Mr W 
could call them. Also, that they would let him know why it had been refused if they were able 
to.  
Mr W has accepted Co-ops explanation in respect of the first payment which was declined. 
Ive also considered the explanation they provided in their final response and reviewed their 
system notes. I can see they recorded that Mr W had called to confirm the payment was 
genuine and I understand it was unblocked at this time.  
I can see that less than two weeks had passed between when Mr W authorised the payment 
and when it was blocked for a second time. However, Mr W didnt try to make the payment 
immediately after confirming it was genuine. Co-op have explained that when authority was 
given the block was removed temporarily to allow the payment to be made. But when the 
payment wasnt made, the system returned to normal status. This is what caused the second 
attempt on 26 March 2020 to be blocked.
 
Im satisfied this explanation of the process is reasonable. Im also persuaded that Co-op 
werent unfair and that any of its customers in a similar situation wouldve been treated in the 
same way. It may have been helpful here if Co-op had explained to Mr W that the payment 
was temporarily unblocked. But it doesnt mean they acted unreasonably.  
Mr W says he had to use a different card to make the payment. Whilst I appreciate its not 
the card he wanted to use, he was still able to pay and renew his insurance policy. When 
first attempting to make the payment, Mr W was able to call Co-op and approve it. And its 
likely he couldve called again on the second occasion had he not chosen to use a different 
card. 
I understand how strongly Mr W feels and that he says he felt severely embarrassed. Mr W 
has also explained he would like an assurance he wont be put in the same situation again. 
He doesnt think the Co-ops fraud system is good enough if it cant recognise when a 
payment to a specific payee has been confirmed as legitimate. 
Generally speaking, fraud systems automatically process a large number of payments and 
consider a range of factors when assessing the risk. Whilst the payee will be a factor, its not 
the only one taken into consideration. Therefore, I think Co-op found a reasonable balance 
here of temporarily allowing transactions. 
Having reviewed the file, I cant say Co-op did anything wrong when the payment was 
blocked for a second time. Im sorry that Mr W felt embarrassed that this happened twice 
and can appreciate he has concerns about future payments. But Co-op must balance the 
needs of its customers to use payment services effortlessly and protecting against fraudulent 
activity.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Laura DeanOmbudsman