The complaint
Miss C complained that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) took three years to remove a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) from her credit file, causing her financial difficulties.  
Where I refer to Lowell, this includes its agents and other businesses acting on its behalf.
What happened
Lowell purchased Miss Cs account from a previous credit provider in May 2015. It says it 
wrote to Miss C several times over the course of the following year seeking repayment of the 
amount outstanding, but it didnt receive a reply. So it took legal action to recover the debt 
and a County Court Judgment (CCJ) was registered against Miss C. This prompted Miss C 
to pay off the outstanding amount in August 2016. As she paid the full amount within 30 days 
of the CCJ being registered, Lowell told her the record of the CCJ would be removed from 
her credit file. Lowell accept that, due to an oversight, the CCJ wasnt removed from her 
credit file. 
In 2019 Miss C noticed that the CCJ was still on her account. When she approached Lowell, 
it initially told her it hadnt obtained a CCJ. It subsequently apologised and paid her £50 for 
misinforming her about that. When Lowell fully investigated the matter, it accepted it had 
made a mistake and it hadnt removed the CCJ when it should have done. It initially paid 
Miss C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused, and then another £50 for the delay 
in giving her that money.
Miss C wasnt happy with Lowells response as she said the CCJ had affected her credit 
score and led to several applications for credit being declined.
Our investigator thought the total of £400 compensation Lowell had given her was fair and 
took account of the inconvenience and stress of realising shed had a CCJ on her account 
for three years. However, he didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the 
applications for credit shed made had been declined solely due to the CCJ.
Miss C doesnt agree. She maintains the CCJ caused several applications for credit to be 
declined and her credit score to be less than it would otherwise have been. As Miss C 
remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to 
Miss C but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for 
largely the same reasons.
DRN-1422974Lowell accepts its made mistakes. It should have removed the CCJ from Miss Cs credit file 
in 2016 when it said it would. It then compounded that mistake in 2019 when Miss C asked it 
about the CCJ and it said there was not one recorded. But when Lowell looked at the 
complaint properly, I think it acted appropriately. It made sure the CCJ was removed from 
her credit file and made a payment to compensate Miss C for the distress and inconvenience 
it had caused. It also said it would consider further compensation if Miss C could provide 
evidence of any financial loss. I think that was a reasonable response. I accept it caused her 
distress while the matter was being resolved and that wasnt helped by Lowells handling of 
the complaint. But I think the £300 its paid her, plus the two amounts of £50 each for 
misinforming her about the CCJ and for the delay in paying the compensation, provide a fair 
and reasonable response in light of the particular circumstances of this case.
Miss C has said the impact on her has been greater than Lowell has acknowledged. She 
says the CCJ has caused several applications for credit to be declined and she says her 
credit score is less than it would otherwise have been. Shes provided some information in 
support of these arguments and Ive considered that information very carefully. But I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say the CCJ on her credit file was the reason why those 
applications were declined. Lenders may decline credit for a number of reasons, and Im not 
persuaded those applications would have been granted but for the CCJ. 
Taking everything into account, I agree that a total of £400 compensation is fair. I know 
Miss C feels it doesnt fully reflect the impact on her and I recognise its been a difficult and 
stressful time for her. But I think the amount Lowell has paid her is fair in the circumstances 
and I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
Lowell Portfolio I Ltd has already paid £400 to settle the complaint and I think this amount is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman