DRN-2680034
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) declined a claim under a group 
income protection insurance policy which he was a member and beneficiary of.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr J became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with work 
related stress. And thereafter with work related stress and depression. He had the benefit of 
a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer, which can pay out a 
portion of Mr Js income after hed been off work for 28 weeks (the deferred period). 
A claim was made on the policy on behalf of Mr J which was considered by Generali after 
Mr J didnt return to work at the end of the deferred period.
Generali didnt think Mr J was incapacitated, as defined by the policy, throughout the entirety 
of the deferred period. So, at the end of September 2019, it declined the claim. Mr J didnt 
think this was fair and he appealed that decision. However, Generali maintained its position 
to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr J complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
As Mr J didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all points made by Mr J including the points raised in response to our 
investigators view. I havent commented on every point. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the most relevant issues. And having done so, I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint. 
Before I explain why, I want to assure Mr J that my decision is in no way intended to be 
dismissive of the health issues hes suffered. But for the reasons below, I dont think 
Generali has unfairly declined the claim made under the policy.
Generali has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated. 
Under the policy:
Incapacity is defined as: as a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of 
performing the Material and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not 
carrying out any other Work or occupation.
Material and substantial means: duties that are normally required for the 
performance of a Members occupation and cannot reasonably be omitted or 
modified by their Employer.
So, the focus is very much on whether Mr J was unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of the role he was doing because of illness (or injury).
 
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Generali has unfairly declined Mr Js claim on the basis that he wasnt incapacitated 
throughout the deferred period. 
In late February 2019  around the time Mr J was signed off work by his GP  its reflected in 
Mr Js GP notes:
Line manager changed at work  new line manager was not understanding. Mid-
year appraisal, confidential information was leaked by his line manager. He has been 
trying to stay focused and perform his job to the best ability he spoke to a more 
senior colleague last week about the situationthis led to be put under a 
disciplinary since this happened reduced appetite, he feels hopeless and finding it 
hard to focus on simple tasks. Mood low at the moment will look into seeking legal 
opinion.
In April 2019, Mr Js GP records says Mr Js mood up and down. Some difficulty 
sleepingit is all related to whats happening at work.
And whilst theres also reference in Mr Js GP notes of other issues (unrelated to work) 
causing him worry, the large majority of the medical evidence Ive seen relevant to the 
deferred period supports that Mr Js stress and depression was being caused by work 
related issues.  And that it was those work-related issues which were preventing him from 
returning to work.
Thats supported by what Mr J said in a claim form he completed at the end of July 2019  
so around two months before the end of deferred period. 
Mr J was asked: When do you think that you will be able to return to work on either a full-
time or part-time basis? And he replied: Once my employer makes my work place a safe 
environment free from bullying, victimisation and the successful conclusion of my grievance. 
Its also reflected that his work-related stress and depression had worsened due to the 
unwillingness of my employer to answer the issues raised in my grievance in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
The overall content of the occupational health reports Ive seen also support this. For 
example:
- Occupational health report dated 26 April 2019 reflects that Mr J had been off work 
sick since late February 2019 due to high stress levels, which had reportedly resulted 
from a situation at work which he had raised a grievance about. And that on 
balance, the appropriate investigation and successful resolution of the workplace 
matter is likely to yield symptomatic resolution; it is also probable that the longer this 
episode takes to resolve, the greater the risk to any successful vocational 
rehabilitation.
- Occupational health report dated 20 May 2019 says the grievance process should be 
expedited to minimise Mr Js exposure to the perceived high stress environment. - Occupational health report dated 30 May 2019 says Mr J would benefit from the 
grievance meeting being prioritised as urgent. The previous meetings cancellation 
had adversely impacted his mental well-being.
- Occupational health report dated 29 July 2019 says Mr J reported on-going reactive 
low mood to previously stated work-related matters. And that his overall mental 
health would likely benefit if workplace matters could be dealt with as a matter of 
urgency.
- Occupational health report dated 17 October 2019  so shortly after the end of the 
deferred period - reflects that resolution of the workplace dispute will allow his 
symptoms to improve however it is difficult to state whether or not this will be 
achievable.
Further, its reflected in Mr Js GP notes in September 2019  around the end of the deferred 
period  that Mr Js mood was better due to an increase in medication and he was getting 
positive news from work. 
I appreciate Mr Js point that it doesnt automatically follow that as soon as his workplace 
situation improved, his mental health wouldve also improved.
However, taking all the evidence into account Im satisfied that, during the deferred period, 
the barrier to Mr Js return to work was the work-related issues hes described. The 
underlying issues Mr J says he was experiencing with his employer (the policyholder of the 
group policy) are unlikely to have existed if he was doing the same role at a different 
employer. And, although Mr J had been signed off work by his GP, I dont think the overall 
evidence supports that he was unable to perform the role he was doing more generally for 
the entirety of the deferred period. 
So, Im satisfied Generali has reasonably concluded that Mr J wasnt incapacitated when 
declining the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman