DRN-1695969
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch of 
HSBC in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt know the PPI had been applied to their mortgage 
account. They have also more recently said that they were made to feel that the mortgage 
wouldnt be agreed if they didnt take out PPI.
HSBC has provided a copy of the financial review that took place at the time Mr and Mrs W 
were arranging the mortgage. I can see that various forms of insurance were discussed and 
that the adviser made a number of recommendations. I can also see that Mr and Mrs W 
turned down some of the recommendations, such as life and critical illness policies. The 
adviser had recorded an identified need for Mr and Mrs W to protect their mortgage 
repayments in the short term against accident, sickness and redundancy.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollection of events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mr and Mrs 
W were given a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, 
knowing they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
HSBC advised Mr and Mrs W to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to 
them, it needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs Ws needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mrs W says she would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have received 
full pay for. Mr W was self-employed, but looking at the policy terms, it was no more difficult 
for a self-employed person to make a claim on the policy than an employed person. And Mr 
and Mrs W have told us that they didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back 
on. So I think they had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. As such, I consider it was reasonable of HSBC to recommend that 
they buy the policy.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of 
those things. As I think they had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything HSBC may  have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
HSBC needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman