DRN-4027868
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, complains China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
(China Taiping) has unfairly declined a claim made on a commercial property insurance 
policy.
Mr H brings the complaint on behalf of M as its director. 
All references to China Taiping are intended to include the actions of its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. What follows is only intended to be a summary of the key events that led to this 
complaint. 
M suffered a fire at its premises and made a claim on the policy to China Taiping. 
Having instructed an expert and investigated the cause of the fire, China Taiping declined 
the claim stating a condition precedent in the policy had not been met. This related to items 
being needing to be left to cool fully before being stacked.  Here it believes items that were 
placed on top of machines were stacked while still warm and that is what led to the fire 
igniting. As a result of this, it declined to meet the claim under the fire section of the policy. 
M disagreed, it provided its own expert report to China Taiping for it to consider. It 
complained about the decision to decline the claim but ultimately China Taiping did not 
change it. So, M brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and explained to M she thought China Taiping 
was entitled to decline the claim and had done so fairly and reasonably.
M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It maintains that 
the items were cool before they were stacked and there was a different cause of ignition. It 
believes the condition precedent was met and China Taiping should meet the claim under 
the policy.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. 
My role here isnt to decide what caused the fire. Rather it is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr H, and by China Taiping and to decide if I think China Taiping have acted 
reasonably in declining the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Having read through all of the evidence and arguments available to me, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The policy contains a condition precedent which must be met before any cover is 
provided by the policy. Here that states, It is a condition precedent to the liability of 
the company that all items which have undergone any process at the premises are 
allowed to individually cool fully before piling stacking or packaging.
The fire brigade attended the incident and produced a report which cites the source 
of ignition to be Other (self-heating) and the item/material damaged first to have 
been Clothing/Textiles  Other textiles. 
China Taiping instructed an expert (B) to provide a report on the fire and its likely 
cause. M also obtained a report.  I can see that China Taiping sent the report from M 
on to B and asked for its comments, as I would have expected it to do.  And I can see 
the response from B, analysed in detail what had been put forward and provided its 
own commentary. 
China Taiping isnt an expert in fire related damage and its causes. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to an instruct an expert. Or do I think it unreasonable for it to 
rely on the opinion of that expert. I think it is reasonable for it to do so unless it can 
see the opinion of that expert is obviously flawed or wrong.  Having read the initial 
report B provided as well as its further commentary on the report M provided and 
additional points, I think it was detailed and well-reasoned. It set out what it believed 
the likely cause of the fire and responded to the points that had been put forward. 
From this I think it was reasonable for China Taiping to conclude that the condition 
precedent hadnt been met and I dont think it is obvious that the opinion is obviously 
flawed or wrong.  
I have considered the report M has provided and its further commentary, however as 
I set out at the start of this decision, it is not my role to decide how the fire started. 
Having reviewed everything available to me Im persuaded that China Taiping has 
fairly and reasonably approached its consideration of this claim. The report from the 
fire brigade, as well as the information provided by the expert it approached, supports 
its decision to decline the claim. So, I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in doing so here. 
M has suggested it now has further evidence for China Taiping to consider. This has 
not been considered under this complaint. M would need to present this to China 
Taiping in the first instance. If it remains unhappy with any response China Taiping 
gives, it would be entitled to complain about that and then escalate the matter to this 
service in the normal way if required.
M has commented about how the policy was sold to it. Any complaint about these 
matters would need to be raised with the party that sold the policy 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold Ms complaint against China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman