DRN-3036931
The complaint
Miss G complains that windows and doors supplied with finance from Specialist Lending 
Limited trading as Duologi werent of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In September 2018 Miss G was supplied with new windows and doors and entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi. The 
agreement was a buy now pay later agreement, with an interest free period of 12 months.
Miss G wasnt happy with the quality of the windows. In addition, the door was damaged 
when the installer drilled holes for the latch in the wrong place. Shortly after the installation 
was completed, the installer became insolvent. Following this, a third party was engaged to 
carry out remedial works. These works were completed in August 2019, but Miss G 
remained unhappy. She said that the installation wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In October 2019 Miss G received an invoice from Duologi for £28,000. It said that the 
amount due had increased because the agreement hadnt been settled within 12 months. 
Miss G complained and said shed been advised that settlement wasnt due until 12 months 
after satisfactory completion of the installation. Duologi agreed that Miss G could pay the 
original outstanding balance of £14,500.
Miss G accepted this resolution. But she remained unhappy about the ongoing issues with 
the windows and door and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the independent inspection obtained by Miss 
G dated December 2020 showed that there were issues with the windows which hadnt been 
resolved. He also said he was persuaded by the report that the products werent of 
satisfactory quality and that the supplier were in breach of contract, which meant that 
Duologi (as the provider of finance) were also liable under section 75. The investigator said 
that the independent report included an estimate of what it would cost to put things right, 
which he felt was fair and reasonable. He said Duologi should either arrange for remedial 
works to be carried out or reimburse Miss G if she arranged this herself. 
Duologi replied and said it could arrange for a third party to carry out an inspection and 
complete any remedial works. Miss G replied and said she wanted to arrange for someone 
to carry out the remedial works herself and was not happy for a third party to be chosen by 
Duologi. She said she wanted reimbursement of a sum equivalent to the estimate contained 
in the independent report.
Duologi said it didnt agree. It said there was an insurance backed guarantee in place under 
which repairs could be arranged and that it wasnt agreeable to reimbursing a third party to 
carry out the work. It also said the independent inspection report included installation issues 
for which it wasnt responsible, as these related to works which Miss G claimed had been 
promised by the installer but did not form part of the contract. Duologi said that it wanted an 
inspection carried out to establish the outstanding work to be undertaken, to make sure that 
it didnt include works not included in the original purchase contract.
Miss G responded to this and said the issues identified in the independent report were the 
same issues which were meant to have been resolved when remedial works had been 
carried out previously. She said she didnt agree that it was necessary to have third 
inspection, and that she wanted to arrange for the work to be carried out at a time to suit her 
as she worked full time.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the relevant law. Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in 
certain circumstances, a consumer has an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods 
or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Miss Gs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a breach of 
contract  or in other words, that the installation of the windows by the supplier wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that goods supplied must be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, 
taking into account factors such as the price of the goods and the description of the goods. 
Satisfactory quality includes fitness for purpose, freedom from defects, safely and durability.
An expert report can help to determine whether goods are of satisfactory quality. In this 
case, Miss G obtained an independent report in December 2020. This was after remedial 
works had been attempted in August 2019.  Ive looked at the independent report. This 
identifies a number of issues with the installation which Im satisfied amount to faults. I can 
safely conclude  based on the contents of the independent inspection  that the installation 
of the windows isnt of satisfactory quality. This means that there has been a breach of 
contract by the supplier, and that liability under section 75 is established.
Duologi has said that the independent report refers to some issues which werent included 
as part of the original contract, and that it wants to carry out a further inspection to establish 
what contractual works require remediation. Miss G disagrees and says that the issues 
identified in the latest report are the same as the issues identified prior to the first attempt at 
remedial works in August 2019.
Ive thought about what both parties have said. On balance, Im persuaded by the latest 
independent inspection report. I think the report clearly identifies whats wrong with the 
installation and provides a fair estimate of the costs of putting things right. The report is very 
detailed and reaches clear conclusions. I dont think its necessary for a further report to be 
carried out. Based on what Ive seen, I cant be certain that the latest report identifies issues 
which werent part of the original contract with the supplier. There isnt enough evidence. On 
balance, Im persuaded that all the faults identified in the inspection report should be put 
right.      
Putting things right
To put things right, Duologi must reimburse Miss G for the cost of remedial works as 
estimated in the report in the sum of £3100.00 plus VAT. I wouldnt expect Miss G to have to 
find this money up front, so Duologi must provide it in advance. I appreciate the point that 
Duologi has made about the insurance backed guarantee and its desire to arrange the work 
itself, but its clear to me that the relationship of trust has broken down between Miss G and 
the supplier/suppliers nominated repairers, as the first attempt at repair wasnt successful at 
remedying the faults and the matter has gone on for over three years now.Miss G has incurred the cost of an independent inspection which she wouldnt have had to 
do if the repairs had been carried out properly the first time. So, I think these costs should be 
refunded. Miss G has provided this service with proof of those costs.
Its clear that Miss G has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with windows which arent of satisfactory quality. Its fair to require compensation to 
be paid in these circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi 
must:
Reimburse Miss G the sum of £3100 plus VAT so she can arrange for remedial works to be 
carried out
Refund Miss G the cost of the independent inspection plus 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman