DRN-3222292
The complaint
Miss L complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) irresponsibly granted her a
loan she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In November 2018, Miss L acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from
MotoNovo. Miss L was required to make monthly repayments of £260.26 over five years,
after which there was an option to purchase the car outright. The total repayable under the
agreement was £16,091.76 towards which Miss L paid a deposit of £8,650.
Miss L says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had,
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it
carried out a thorough assessment which included a review of Miss Ls credit file and the
collection of some information about Miss Ls expenses and income.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought MotoNovo ought to
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Miss L.
MotoNovo didnt agree. They calculated that Miss L would have had about £673 of
disposable income every month after this agreement had been taken into account. And they
thought the checks they had done were therefore proportionate. In those circumstances they
said they would never have become aware of Miss Ls significant gambling expenses or the
impact that had on how affordable the loan was as they didnt have to check bank
statements before approving a loan.
The case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think MotoNovo gathered a reasonable amount of evidence
and information from Miss L about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a
credit check, considered what Miss L had told them about her outgoings and asked for
information about Miss Ls income. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about
what the evidence and information showed.
Ive reviewed the information and evidence MotoNovo gathered. Its clear from the system
information they have presented that they did review Miss Ls credit file. The system
information is difficult to follow so Ive used the copy of the credit file that Miss L has
provided. I think its likely that would contain the same information that MotoNovo reviewed.
Having done so Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the
agreement was likely to be affordable for Miss L. I say that because the credit file showed
she was manging her accounts well. There was an historic default on a telecommunications
account from a few years earlier but there were no County Court Judgements, insolvencies
or debt management programs in place. The loans she had were all being managed well
and there were signs of significant improvements in her ability to repay the credit she had
taken out as credit balances were reducing. Miss L wasnt using much of the credit available
to her on her credit cards either and, whilst she had been several months in arrears on a
credit card in July 2018, she was back in control of that account by the time of her
application, the balance had improved significantly, and she was well within her credit limit.
Another credit card (outfit) had also been four months in arrears in July 2018 but by the
time of the application this card was closed and paid in full.
MotoNovo have explained that Miss L told them her income was about £1,700 per month.
Having reviewed the outgoings in her credit file I dont think there would have been concerns
that even after adding other living expenses such as food and council tax, Miss L wouldnt
have had enough income to afford the agreement. I dont think the business therefore acted
unfairly when approving the finance.
I understand that had MotoNovo reviewed Miss Ls bank statements they would have
discovered she was spending significant amounts on gambling. But MotoNovo didnt have to
consider Miss Ls bank accounts as long as the checks they performed were proportionate,
which I think they were.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
MotoNovo didnt provide any further evidence but Miss L did. She said that when MotoNovo 
gave her the loan she had four payday loans and was constantly using her overdraft. She 
explained that she had a big gambling problem at the time and her credit score was 
extremely low. She said the loan was clearly unaffordable and that shed had to take out 
further loans to make repayments on it. 
Miss L said she was paying interest on a daily basis on credit that was being provided to her 
and this was costing her between £160 and £200 a month, she said that should have been 
clear to MotoNovo from her credit file. Miss L said that at the time the loan was approved 
she had outgoings of £1,679 and income of £1,700 and that wouldnt have given her enough 
income to afford food and necessities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought the checks MotoNovo completed were 
reasonable and proportionate. The credit file would have shown Miss Ls credit performance 
was improving and would not have identified any recent defaults or County Court 
Judgements. Miss L was managing her accounts well and wasnt using all of the credit 
available to her. So, I dont think they needed to review Miss Ls bank statements and it was only if theyd 
needed to do that that they would have identified Miss Ls gambling problem or the extent of 
additional spending. Ive not therefore been provided with any additional evidence that has 
led me to change my provisional decision and that provisional decision now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman