DRN-3443707
The complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit limit increase 
on his credit card. Mr O also complains about the interest hes been charged by MBNA. 
What happened
Mr O successfully applied for a credit card with MBNA in 2005. Over the years, Mr Os credit 
limit increased. In May 2016 the credit limit was increased from £21,300 to £25,000. Mr O 
used the card, clearing the outstanding balance in full at times.
In October 2019 Mr O missed a payment due to financial difficulties. A debt advice service 
later contacted MBNA on Mr Os behalf. Mr Os credit card was later closed and a default 
was recorded on his credit file. 
Mr O complained to MBNA that it had lent irresponsibly. Mr O also complained about the 
interest rate charged on his credit card over the years. MBNA sent Mr O a final response but 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly or charged too much interest. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought MBNA had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr O 
asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a decision setting out how the time limits in our rules impact Mr Os 
complaint. In this decision, Im not going to talk about the original application or subsequent 
credit limit increases. In line with what I recently said, this decision will focus on the credit 
limit increase in May 2016 and the interest applied to Mr Os credit card since 2014, as 
explained by the investigator. 
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say MBNA had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr O could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, MBNA said it looked at Mr Os account history and found his existing credit limit 
had been in place since July 2010. MBNA has provided copies of Mr Os credit card history 
and they show his payments were made on time and often exceeded the minimum payment. 
After around six years of managing his account in line with the existing credit limit MBNA 
said it felt Mr Os history showed he was in a position to support further borrowing. 
MBNA also carried out a credit search. It didnt find any arrears or adverse information. In 
addition, MBNA didnt find lots of other unsecured credit in Mr Os name. 
MBNA says the credit limit was increased from £21,300 to £25,000 in line with its normal 
lending criteria. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr O as I can see how strongly he feels in this 
matter. But I havent found that MBNA lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit limit in 
May 2016. In my view, MBNA carried our proportionate checks and its decision to approve 
the credit limit increase was reasonable based on the information it found. 
Mr O also complains about the interest rates applied to his credit card by MBNA. Ive looked 
back to November 2014 and can see Mr Os credit card statements gave details of the 
different interest rates applicable for the various types of transactions he could complete. I 
havent seen any evidence that shows the wrong interest rates have been applied or that Mr 
O has been unfairly charged by MBNA.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but as I havent found that MBNA lent irresponsibly or treated 
him unfairly when applying interest to his credit card, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman