DRN-4002983
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Monzo Bank Ltd facilitates its international payments via 
a third party company.
What happened
Mr S had problems making an international payment. Monzo initially said the transaction had 
been successful when it had in fact failed because the amount was over Mr Ss payment 
limit.
Monzo accepted there was a system error and paid Mr S a total of £38.10. £18.10 was to 
compensate him for the exchange rate fluctuation at the point that the transaction eventually 
went through. £20 was for Mr Ss inconvenience.
Our investigator thought that Monzos response was fair and reasonable. He also thought 
that it had acted in line with its operating terms and conditions.
Mr S has no issue with Monzo outsourcing its international payments to a third party or 
Monzos response to that part of his complaint about the failed transaction. But hes unhappy 
that he can manage some processes through the Monzos App but not others. Hes also 
unhappy that Monzo referred him to the third party to sort out the issues he was having, 
which he considers to be illegal under the contract he has with Monzo.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was established to be a quick and informal service. This 
doesnt mean we apply any less rigour or care in reaching our decisions. However, it does 
mean that we might not address each and every point in the way that Mr S might wish. So, 
whilst Mr S has framed his complaint in terms of FCA compliance and the legality of Monzos 
actions, I intend to stick to the crux of the matter at hand. I would however like to reassure 
Mr S that, even though I might not mention it directly, when considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am taking into account relevant law, regulation and guidance.
The Monzo App allows customers to add new payee details and select existing payees to 
make payments. But to access, edit or remove existing international payees, you have to 
sign in to the third party account, which Mr S finds unacceptable. Its a matter for Monzo how 
it chooses to run its business, including the level of functionality it offers via its app. Im 
unable to conclude that it has done anything wrong just because the service doesnt live up 
to Mr Ss expectations of what he feels the App should be offering.
When Mr S had the problem with the international transfer, Monzo advised him to contact 
the third partys customer services. Mr Ss view is that he is a customer of Monzo and not 
the third party. Also, Monzos website states: We may need to share your question with 
(third party) if the problem is about the international transfer, as they make the transfers, 
which shows that its role was to act as the intermediary in getting to the bottom of things.
 
Monzos explanation for referring Mr S was that it wasnt always in a position to look at the 
full details of the third partys actions and that it was only the third party that had the ability to 
have full control and scope of any investigation. 
I do appreciate Mr Ss arguments in relation to this issue. I agree that the wording on 
Monzos website gives the impression that it will keep ownership of any customer service 
issues. However, given the partnership arrangement with the third party, and the third party 
being solely responsible for international payments, on a practical level it makes a lot of 
sense that queries of that nature are handled directly by the third party. On balance, whilst it 
could have been made clearer, I consider it reasonable that Monzo referred Mr S to the third 
party in relation to the failed payment. 
In terms of the functionality of Monzos own app, I agree that the third party wouldnt be 
responsible for Monzos user interface. But I dont think Monzo was referring him to the third 
party about that issue. Im not persuaded that it told him to contact the third party to avoid 
carrying out work on its own App.
Mr S says he doesnt recall agreeing to the terms and conditions and that Monzo hasnt 
provided any evidence that he did so. But agreeing to the terms and conditions was part of 
the process of setting up the third party account. On the basis that Mr S successfully set up 
an account, Im satisfied that he must have agreed to the terms and conditions at that initial 
stage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman