DRN-2342827
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax froze her Halifax bank accounts after they spotted 
activity which they thought looked fraudulent.
For the sake of simplicity, Ill refer to Halifax throughout.
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs S transferred £1,300 between two of 
her Halifax accounts to pay for new furniture. When the 
furniture was due to be delivered, she found she was unable to 
make the payment to the furniture company. After she 
contacted Halifax, she says she discovered that all her 
accounts had been frozen.
Halifax has said that, originally, only the furniture transaction 
was blocked because theyd flagged it as looking suspicious. 
But, after speaking to Mrs S by phone shortly afterwards, they 
thought there was activity in general which looked fraudulent or 
that Mrs S was being coerced into making payment. They said 
they took the decision to safeguard Mrs Ss money, in line with 
her account agreement, and froze all her accounts. Halifax told 
Mrs S shed have to visit a branch to have them unfrozen.
Mrs S visited her local branch and her accounts were restored 
the next working day.
Mrs S said she was upset as shed already had her old furniture 
removed. And had she not had another means of payment, a 
credit card, shed have been without furniture over the 
Christmas period. But, she said, using her credit card had 
meant incurring steep interest charges. She asks to be 
reimbursed the interest and compensated for her 
inconvenience with a payment of £400.00.
Mrs S complained to Halifax who provided a formal response 
letter in March 2020. They apologised that Mrs S felt that 
blocking the payment had been unfair but they declined her 
complaint. Halifax said that they took security very seriously 
and the transaction in question had been flagged as suspicious. 
They also said that when Mrs S had spoken by phone with their 
Fraud Team, they thought she might have been the victim of a 
potential scam. Because of this, Mrs S had been referred to her 
local branch for proof of identity. So, Halifax said theyd taken 
action to safeguard Mrs Ss account until they could speak to 
her in person.
Mrs S was unhappy with Halifaxs response and, in June 2020, 
brought her complaint to this service. In October 2020, our 
investigator sent out her view. She said she didnt think Halifax 
needed to take any action because they hadnt treated Mrs S 
unfairly. She explained that Halifax had flagged the payment in 
question as suspicious because it was an unusually large 
amount, and that when they spoke to Mrs S, they were 
concerned that she was being coerced into making the 
payment. Our investigator said she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to block Mrs Ss accounts until they 
were happy she wasnt making the payment under duress. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Halifax had followed their 
process fairly and done nothing wrong, so it wouldnt be fair to 
ask them to pay Mrs S compensation.
Mrs S was unhappy with this response. She said all her 
accounts had been frozen after she spoke to the Halifax yet 
she had transferred money between accounts the week before, 
without difficulty. She said she had initiated contact with Halifax 
after the payment was blocked, and she couldnt understand 
how Halifaxs call handler reached the conclusion she was 
being coerced. She also said that banks should inform 
customers when access to their accounts has been blocked which, she said, Halifax didnt do. She said she didnt think 
Halifax had followed the correct procedures and asked for her 
case to be considered by an ombudsman. So, now the matter 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially 
the same reasons as our investigator. Let me explain why.
First off, in respect of the actions Halifax took on behalf of Mrs 
S, Ive looked at two things: the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss 
account which she agreed to when opening her account, and 
the underlying rules laid down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority by which banks like Halifax are governed. These rules 
allow a bank to freeze a customers accounts temporarily while 
they investigate their concerns.
Mrs S has pointed out that shed previously made internal 
payments without blocks being placed on them. But while I 
accept this might be the case, that doesnt mean Halifax 
wasnt entitled to flag this payment in the name of security. 
The terms and conditions of the account to which Ive 
been directed by Halifax state, under Section C  Checks, 
account security and keeping you informed: 2.1 We will 
do all we reasonably can to prevent unauthorised access 
to your accounts and to make sure they are secure.
And under the rules laid down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in particular, under High Level Standards their 
Principles for Business, there is a general statement of 
the basic obligations of businesses and those to whom 
they apply. Under these, a business must consider the 
interest of its customers and do what they can to keep 
them safe and, at the same time, ensure adequate 
protection for its assets. From these, Im satisfied that Halifax were not only entitled but 
obliged to take action on behalf of Mrs S when they suspected 
that she was at risk. And, in this case, I think there were 
genuine reasons why Halifax thought Mrs S might be being 
scammed and they acted in accordance with the rules. So, Im 
satisfied Halifax behaved reasonably and havent done 
anything wrong here.
Then, in considering whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint, Ive reviewed the actions 
of the Halifax to understand whether they couldve done 
anything else under the circumstances.
Halifax said that Mrs Ss furniture payment was flagged as 
suspicious because it was an unusually large amount 
compared to her normal account activity. So, Ive looked at 
twelve months worth of Mrs Ss bank records over 2019 
and 2020. And other than what I take to be a large 
payment to her local borough, the next largest transaction 
is only around half of the £1,300 she was trying to make 
for her furniture, and most of her outgoings are quite 
modest. So, I think it was reasonable of Halifax to regard 
this transaction as unusual and for them to step in by 
placing a temporary hold on it.
Mrs S and a call handler from Halifax then spoke by 
telephone. Halifax told us that originally only the furniture 
payment was blocked and Mrs Ss accounts were all 
frozen as a result of this call. This was because Halifax 
was concerned that Mrs S was being coerced into making 
the payment. So, Ive listened to this call. The call handler 
has a strong regional accent and, possibly in part for this 
reason or possibly because Mrs S didnt always hear 
clearly, her responses to security questions aren't always 
consistent. There are pauses, some uncertainty on Mrs 
Ss part (for example as to which account shed been 
using), besides occasional confusion (though I accept some of this related to terms such as chip and pin and 
device with which Mrs S was unfamiliar). Mrs S was also 
unsure as to how long shed held the account. The upshot 
was that the call handler informed Mrs S that she (the call 
handler) had been locked out by the system, partly on 
account of inconsistencies in Mrs Ss responses. The call 
handler then informed Mrs S that she would have to 
attend her branch in person which Mrs S did within 24 
hours. So, based on this conversation, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to freeze Mrs Ss accounts 
temporarily until they were satisfied that she wasnt acting 
under duress or at risk of financial harm.
The rules state that a bank should inform their customer what 
theyre doing and should allow access to accounts again as 
soon as practically possible. Mrs S said that the bank hadnt 
contacted her about the declined payment, and that she 
contacted them first.
But I wouldnt expect Halifax to have informed Mrs S that they 
would block the furniture payment in advance because they 
didnt know it was coming. And while Halifaxs system notes 
suggest they'd contacted Mrs S to ask her to get in touch, as 
Mrs S maintains she contacted Halifax very shortly after the 
furniture payment was held, its possible their communications 
crossed and shed already made contact before she saw any 
message. So, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong 
here.
And then, having made contact with one another, Halifax 
informed Mrs S that they had no choice but to freeze her 
accounts during the call Ive listened to - which was the earliest 
opportunity they had to speak. So, I think Halifax did inform Mrs 
S of their actions in line with the rules.
So, I think this case comes down to whether Halifaxs actions in 
respect of Mrs S were fair and reasonable under the circumstances. And based on all the available evidence, I think 
they were. Because these are the sort of steps Id expect 
Halifax to take when they had concerns about a customers 
vulnerability and risk, and wed criticise them if they didnt. 
Finally, Mrs S also told us she incurred interest on her credit 
card account because Halifax blocked the transaction. If 
additional interest has been charged, I dont think this is 
something Halifax are responsible for. But in any case, as Mrs 
S had funds in her Halifax accounts, and had planned to make 
the payment she did all along, I dont see why she couldnt 
have used this money to pay her credit card account within the 
appropriate time period. This would have avoided having any 
interest charged.
I understand Mrs S's frustration at the chain of events, and I 
dont think she did anything wrong at any stage, but I think 
there were genuine reasons why Halifax thought she might be 
being scammed, and I accept they were working in her best 
interests. Halifax was entitled to take these security measures 
and it was reasonable for them to do so under all the 
circumstances before unfreezing Mrs Ss account.
So, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong here and I think 
their decision not to compensate Mrs S is fair and Im not going 
to tell them they need to do more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 30 
December 2020. 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman