DRN-3223231
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Equifax Limited, saying she had trouble logging into her 
account.
What happened
Miss T complained, saying she couldnt access her Equifax account. Equifax explained she 
didnt have an account with them. They said it may be that she used to have one but hadnt 
accessed it in so long that it got removed. They sent her a copy of her credit file by post and 
explained how she could set up an online account if she wanted one.
Miss T later complained again about being unable to verify herself on the website. Equifax 
looked into this and confirmed there were no technical issues on their end. They gave Miss T 
advice on what might be wrong on her end and how to resolve it.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Equifax had done enough. Miss T 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since coming to our service, Miss T has raised a number of other issues, such as disputes 
about what other businesses have put on her credit file. I will clarify that, as our investigator 
explained, this case relates to Miss Ts complaint about having login issues with Equifax. 
The other issues that Miss T has now raised were not part of her original complaint about 
logging in, and are substantially separate issues. So it would not be appropriate for me to 
deal with them in this decision. If she hasnt already, Miss T may want to raise disputes with 
those other businesses in the way that our investigator explained.
I understand that it may have been frustrating not being able to log in. But it looks like when 
Miss T first contacted Equifax, she really didnt have an account with them. It may be the 
case that she used to have one. Its normal for old accounts to get removed if theyre not 
used in too long  this is in line with data protection rules.
Then when Miss T complained again later, I can see that Equifax looked into things for her 
and were able to confirm there were no technical issues with their website that would 
prevent her from verifying herself.
Equifax gave Miss T sensible advice on what she could do, and also sent her a copy of her 
credit file by post so that she could still view her file. And that all seems reasonable. I cant 
see that Equifax did anything wrong in this situation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Equifax Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman