DRN-3124612
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money (Madison), lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr F applied for a £2,000 loan in September 2017. It was approved and the repayments 
were scheduled to be 24 months of just over £154 each. From a statement of account 
Madison has sent us it seems that Mr F stopped paying around December 2017 and the 
debt was assigned to a debt purchaser in May 2018. 
Mr F complained in June 2021 and his representative received Madisons final response 
letter (FRL) in August 2021. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr F referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that we did not need to ask 
Madison to put things right for Mr F. Our adjudicator explained that there wasnt anything in 
the information Mr F had provided to Madison, or the information it shouldve been aware of 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to do more than it did. So, she did not think it 
was wrong for Madison to have lent to Mr F. 
Mr Fs representative gave reasons as to why it disagreed. These were: 
- Mr Fs level of financial difficulty
- Mr Fs dependency on payday loans 
- Mr F was using his overdraft
- it was clear he was struggling to manage his money 
- it would be highly likely that he would still rely on payday lending
- Mr F borrowed again one month after the loan from Madison was taken and this 
should have been apparent at the time of lending. 
Our adjudicator issued a second view along the same lines as the first view. Mr Fs 
representative said Mr F may have appeared he was managing his payments well on his 
existing credit agreements, but the reality was he was doing this by using other lenders to 
repay borrowing. And it said that Mr F reborrowed again shortly after this Madison loan was 
approved for him. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and I will explain here.
From Madisons records it has sent to us, Mr F had informed Madison he was living at home 
with parents and his salary was £1,736 a month. His outgoings were relatively low at £250 
for household items and food and £290 a month for other credit obligations and £120 a 
month for insurances. He had given the reason for the loan - to consolidate borrowing. Having reviewed the records Madison has sent to me, it carried out an income verification 
which dovetailed with what Mr F had told them. Madison carried out a credit search and it 
has sent to us those results. It did not show a great deal of outstanding debt. And revealed 
little to give it concern. 
So, the proportionate checks for Mr Fs loan were fulfilled and the information Madison acted 
on before approving the loan was appropriate. Mr Fs figures combined with what it had seen 
on the credit searches led it to consider Mr F could afford the loan.  
As for the payday loans to which his representative refers, most of them were closed before 
the Madison loan and so Id not expect a new lender to be concerned about closed loans. 
And to demonstrate that what Madison gleaned from his credit file results was not likely to 
give it concern, here is a summary from the one carried out before it lent to him: 
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 4,201
Total Balances (Loans/Installment [sic] Credit): £ 2,028
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 896
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 1,622
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 55 %
So, I disagree that it was clear Mr F was not managing his money. And as Mr F had given 
his reason for the £2,000 loan was to consolidate borrowing then its likely Madison would 
reasonably have concluded Mr F was going to reduce some of this debt. 
And I do not agree with Mr Fs representatives opinion that Madison was going to be able to 
anticipate that it would be highly likely that he would still rely on payday lending. Madison 
was not likely to have known Mr F would continue with that other lending. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman