DRN-3443210
The complaint
Mr G complains about charges levied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc at the end of a hire 
contract. Ill refer to Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc as HCVS.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr G entered into a consumer hire agreement with HCVS for a new car. The 
agreement was for a minimum of two years, but it was extended, and Mr G arranged for the 
car to be returned in October 2021. Mr G is a driving instructor and had put driving school 
decals on the car. 
When the car was returned, an inspection was carried out on behalf of HCVS. It said that 
there was some damage to the car and that Mr G would be charged a total of £285. That 
comprised £50 to remove decals, £60 in respect of a dent in the front wing and £175 in 
respect of scuffs to the rear bumper. 
Mr G had an arrangement for the removal of the decals at no cost to himself, and HCVS 
agreed to remove the charge associated with them. It also agreed, as a matter of goodwill, to 
reduce the remaining charge by £50. Mr G remained unhappy, however, and referred the 
matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. Having done so, he thought that 
the charges had been made in line with the hire contract and industry guidelines and were 
therefore fair. Mr G did not accept the investigators findings. He said that the inspector had 
indicated that the damage to the car was within the fair wear and tear allowances and that 
the damage was very minor.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under clause 3.1(b) of the hire agreement, Mr G agreed to keep the car in good condition 
and repair. That clause continued: You will be responsible to us for any damage caused to 
or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated in the 
guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).  
I have considered carefully the damage report and the photographs included in it and 
compared the damage shown with the relevant BVRLA standards. 
The dent on the front wing is quite small  around 15mm  but is on the swage line, above 
the wheel arch. BVRLA guidelines say that a dent on a swage line is not acceptable. 
There are a number of scuffs to the rear bumper. Some appear to be more than 25mm long. 
BVRLA guidelines allow for a maximum of four scratches of 25mm or less. Both the size and 
number of scuffs therefore exceed BVRLA guidelines. 
I do note that the photographs were taken outside and when the car was wet. For that 
reason, they are not as clear as they could be. I am satisfied however that they do 
demonstrate the damage that HCVS has identified and for which it has charged. 
I am satisfied therefore that HCVS was entitled to charge for the damage. I believe too that 
the charges are a reasonable reflection of the cost of repairs.        
My final decision 
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman