DRN-2448023
The complaint
Mr S complains about the excess mileage charged by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) under a hire agreement.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr S took a new car under a two-year regulated hire agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement said that Mr S would have to pay an additional mileage charge if, 
over the term of the agreement, the mileage exceeded 20,000. If the agreement were ended 
early, there would be a proportional reduction in the mileage allowance.
Towards the end of the hire period, Mr S contacted VWFS to discuss his options. He agreed 
to buy the car from VWFS. He was asked its mileage and says he gave a figure of 20,000, 
but explained he wasnt with the car at the time.
The exact price at which VWFS would sell the car to Mr S was determined by  amongst 
other things  anything Mr S owed under the hire agreement; that in turn took into account 
any excess mileage.
When Mr S bought the car, the price he paid included an excess mileage charge of £305.76, 
based on a mileage of 20,000. Mr S said however that the mileage he gave was an estimate 
only; he expected the exact mileage to be checked and used in calculating the price he 
would have to pay to buy the car. He says the actual mileage was less than 20,000. Had the 
correct mileage been used, the price of the car would have been slightly more, but the 
mileage charge would have been less; overall, he would have paid less than he did.
VWFS said it based the sale price on the mileage Mr S provided. That was clear from the 
sale documents. There was, it said, no evidence of the mileage Mr S was claiming.
Mr S referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
recommended that the sale price be re-calculated on the basis of the mileage Mr S was 
claiming. VWFS didnt accept that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.
I did that and, because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I thought it would be fair, if possible, for the price of the car to be based on its actual 
mileage, not an estimate. I thought it unlikely that the cars exact mileage was 20,000, but 
there was no persuasive evidence of any other figure. That was the best evidence available. 
It was therefore fair to base the price on that figure. 
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He said he had told VWFS that the figure he had 
provided was an approximate one and that he was told a final check would be made.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I accept that the figure Mr S provided was an 
approximate one and that he told VWFS that it was approximate. In any event, it was 
unlikely to be exactly 20,000 miles. I accept too that Mr S expected a further and final check 
to be made.
There is however no better evidence of the mileage than what Mr S told VWFS. And the 
quote for the purchase of the car did say that the excess mileage would be based on the 
mileage that Mr S had supplied. If the figure he had provided was too high, Mr S was 
probably in the best position to correct it. 
I do agree with Mr S that its not ideal that the price he paid was based on an incorrect 
mileage. However, in the absence of evidence of a more accurate figure, I dont think it 
unreasonable that it was.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman