DRN-4428396
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without any reason or 
communication. He says that Barclays policies and procedures should be changed.
What happened
Mr H says that he has been a customer of Barclays for over 20 years and while he had left 
the UK, he had kept money in his UK account for safe keeping until needed. However, when 
he tried to access his account, he found it had been closed. He contacted Barclays and says 
he was told his account was closed for no reason and that while he would be able to recover 
his money this was a long process. Mr H says he was very upset and shaken by what he 
considered an illegal act by Barclays of closing his account without reason. Mr H says he 
was able to recover his money, but this took a long time and he had to jump through many 
hoops and felt worthless and disrespected through the process. He said that accounts 
shouldnt be closed for no reason and that Barclays should change its policies and 
procedures. 
Barclays said that it wrote to Mr H in September 2020 to say that as his account hadnt been 
used for some time it was planning to close it on 24 November 2020. It said Mr H should 
contact it by 18 November 2020 if he wished the account to remain open. As it didnt receive 
a response from Mr H the account was closed on 16 December 2020.
Regarding the return of Mr Hs money, Barclays said while Mr H provided identification 
documents these hadnt been certified. Once the certified documents had been received the 
funds were released to Mr H. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Barclays was under no obligation 
to continue offering an account to a customer and that it was a commercial decision to close 
the account. She said that Mr H had been provided with notice of the account closure in line 
with the account terms and conditions. She noted that although Mr H wanted Barclays to 
change its policies and procedures, this wasnt something we could get involved with. 
Mr H said he wished to appeal our adjudicators view. He said he hadnt received any 
notification from Barclays about its intention to close his account. He said that he was aware 
there was a postal strike at the time in the UK and said Barclays should have contacted him 
by email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear how upsetting Mr H has found his experience with Barclays (but I am 
pleased to note his positive comments about the Barclays staff members he dealt with). I 
can understand why he was shaken when he discovered his account had been closed but it 
is a commercial decision for the bank to make in regard to who it provides its services to. 
That said, it is required to treat its customers fairly and it is our role to assess whether any 
mistakes have been made by Barclays in the actions it has taken and whether it has treated 
Mr H fairly. 
Mr H had an account with Barclays that hadnt been used for an extended period of time. I 
understand why Mr H had kept this account and that he had wished to keep it open. While 
Mr H believes the account was closed illegally, I do not find this was the case. The account 
terms and conditions set out that Barclays can close an account so long as at least two 
months notice is given. As the notice was provided on 7 September 2020 and the account 
wasnt closed until 16 December 2020, I find it acted in line with its terms and conditions.
Barclays has explained that it regularly reviews account activity and writes to customers with 
accounts that havent been used in a long time. As it wrote to Mr H on 7 September 2020 
about his account, I find it followed its usual policy in regard to making contact on inactive 
accounts.
I understand that Mr H didnt receive the communication about Barclays intention to close 
his account but as Barclays has shown a letter was sent and this is to the correct address, I 
find it reasonable to accept that it did provide Mr H with notice of its intentions and the option 
for him to get in touch if he wished the account to remain open. I understand Mr Hs 
comment about not making contact by email but as Barclays wrote to Mr H, I cannot say it 
made a mistake or that it treated Mr H unfairly.
When Mr H realised his account had been closed, he contacted Barclays and was told how 
he could reclaim his money. I understand this took time and I note Mr Hs comment about 
having to send documents by post, but I cannot say that Barclays was wrong to apply its 
usual process to the account funds reclaim. Barclays has explained that while Mr H sent 
identification documents these werent certified, and it contacted him about this. Following 
receipt of the required documents Mr Hs money was released. 
Overall, I appreciate that Mr H wants Barclays to change its policies and procedures. But as 
our adjudicator has explained this isnt something we would get involved with. And as I 
havent found anything to show that Barclays made a mistake or treated Mr H unfairly, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman