DRN-1295926
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage that Mr J holds with Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Hes unhappy that Lloyds didnt offer him a better rate after his initial deal ended in 2015. He 
says he was a mortgage prisoner and ended up paying over 5% until he was given a new 
deal in 2019 at 3.36%.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the complainant company 
and/or its directors when my decision is published.
Mr J took the mortgage out in 2013; the initial rate was 4.39%, fixed until 31 August 2015. 
When the fixed rate ended, Mr J went onto Lloyds standard variable rate (SVR) for BTL 
mortgages. 
He says that after that, Lloyds didnt offer him a competitive new deal, and as a mortgage 
prisoner, he wasnt able to go elsewhere. That changed in 2019 when Lloyds agreed a 
product transfer with a new rate of 3.36%.  Mr J complained that Lloyds have overcharged 
him in between by failing to offer him a better deal.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mr J has asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that no one is entitled to a new rate. The mortgage contract Mr J 
entered into in 2013 specified that when the initial rate ended, hed be charged at the SVR. It 
was then up to Mr J to look at what deals Lloyds was offering, and decide if one suited his 
requirements. Lloyds didnt have to initiate contact or send him reminders or alerts about the 
deals it had from time to time. Its important to remember that as a BTL investor, it was 
Mr Js responsibility to manage his affairs, including the cost of his funding. 
Lloyds contemporaneous contact notes show that on the occasions Mr J did call up (once in 
2015 and twice in 2016) the rates it was offering at those times werent sufficiently attractive 
to tempt Mr J to take a new deal. That may or may not have been the case in later years, but 
Mr J didnt contact Lloyds again until 2019, and as I said earlier, it wasnt up to Lloyds to 
contact him.
Its regrettable that Lloyds rates werent particularly enticing when Mr J called in 2015 and 
2016 but I have no regulatory function. Its not within my remit to tell Lloyds (or any lender for 
that matter) what rates to offer; thats a matter of commercial judgement for Lloyds to make, 
without any interference from me. 
Given that Mr J considered himself a as a mortgage prisoner (that someone who is unable to 
move to another lender) it seems to me that Mr J had an added incentive to continue 
contacting Lloyds at regular intervals to see if things had changed. Thats what happened in 
2019; it might have happened sooner if hed enquired sooner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman