DRN-4504990
The complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC deactivating his reasonable adjustment and 
subsequently discriminating against him.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 4 December 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC deactivating his reasonable adjustment and 
subsequently discriminating against him.
What happened
Mr C is blind and, due to Lloyds requiring him to amend his telephone banking security
number following their deactivation error, he is dissatisfied with the adjustments they have
offered and feels discriminated against. Also, Mr C says Lloyds didnt inform that his security
number had been deactivated and needed to be reset.
Background Information
Mr C explains that because some security telephone banking questions require sight to
ascertain and read the answers, Lloyds had some time ago agreed to set him up with a 4-
digit telephone security number for which he only has to quote 3 digits.
In January 2023, Mr C contacted Lloyds to set up a new payment. However, he discovered
his 4-digit security number had been deactivated. Lloyds said this was because his security
number had been compromised in September 2022, but they didnt have any information on
the reason it was compromised and later thought it was likely to have been an error.
Lloyds are unable to reinstate Mr Cs previous security number. Also, their system now
requires a 6-digit number. So, Mr C is disappointed an effective adjustment has been
changed without any communication with him.
Mr C says he was initially misinformed about how to set up a new security number, but it 
became clear that he had to receive and use an automated security number before changing 
it to a number he would remember.
Mr C says the adjustments offered by Lloyds all involve him requiring assistance from 
someone who is sighted. This is because:
His vision has deteriorated since the security number was originally set up and he can no 
longer read the large print security number Lloyds sent him
He cant read information in braille or play a cd, which are two other methods offered by 
Lloyds
He says the other VOICE ID option, which was initially subject to technical error and 
delay, was aimed at customers who had vision. He says this is because it requests 
banking information that he would only know if sighted such as bank account number 
and sort code.
Also, Mr C would like Lloyds to send him information, including the security number, by email
or text for which he appears to have a technical solution in place. Mr C says he suggested a
practical solution, with the security number split between email and text. Mr C also points out
that other businesses use email and text, and Lloyds already send him some confidential
statement information by this method. So, he feels Lloyds adjustments are outdated.
Mr C complained to Lloyds. They apologised and said they didnt resolve ordering the new 
security number and shouldve given Mr C options for alternative access sooner. Lloyds 
increased their compensation offer from £50 to £200.
Mr C was dissatisfied with the adjustments offered, and he complained to our service.
However, our investigator thought Lloyds adjustments and redress offer were reasonable.
Mr C remains dissatisfied, so this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator and Im partially upholding this 
complaint. I will explain how I have come to my decision.
I should first explain that, although I understand Mr Cs frustration here and his desire for
Lloyds to make their service more accessible, I cant instruct a business or business group to
alter its policy, procedures, processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator
of the financial services industry.
Also, I appreciate that Mr C feels that Lloyds are being discriminatory and the relevant law in
this matter is the Equality Act 2010. Under the Equality Act 2010, businesses must take
reasonable steps to remove barriers that people face as a result of their disability so that, as
far as possible, people with disabilities receive the same service as people who dont have a
disability and are therefore not placed at a substantial disadvantage. However, its not for
this service to judge whether Lloyds have breached the Equality Act 2010 here, as thats an
issue for the courts.
Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a business hasnt acted
fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to
put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
From reviewing the file and listening to recorded telephone conversations, its not that Lloyds 
have taken away the security number adjustment they put in place to support Mr C. Instead, 
theyve temporarily deactivated and then modified the adjustment. And, due to a combination 
of an unknown deactivation issue, Lloyds system design and Mr Cs sight having 
deteriorated, this security number adjustment requires Mr C to seek assistance from a 
sighted person.
So, Im satisfied that Mr C can, if he wishes, albeit with both assistance from a sighted
person and Lloyds, set himself up with a new security number to undertake telephonebanking. I appreciate the security number will be longer than his previous number but, as its
possible for the new number to include his previous 4-digit number, Im not persuaded that
an extra 2 digits makes this adjustment impractical.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration at having to change his security number. Also, not being
told about when and why it was deactivated. Mr C explains that this security number was put
in place to support him and how vulnerable he feels when, instead of being asked for
security number digits, he is asked questions that he cant answer because he cant see or
needs someone to help him.
From reviewing Lloyds final complaint response letter and compensation offer, although they
recognise they were likely to have made a mistake in deactivating Mr Cs security number, I
cant see that they have considered the impact on Mr C.
I dont think Lloyds considered Mr Cs vulnerability and how their mistake, which may be
minor to a sighted person, has caused Mr C considerable distress. This is because Lloyds
dont appear to have yet realised that Mr Cs sight has deteriorated since they first gave him
the security number adjustment and, although I think it is possible for him to change his
number, he cant do so without planning assistance and therefore loses his independence.
Also, the deactivation of his security number means he has been caused inconvenience and
there is a risk of further inconvenience if he cant answer questions for which he needs to
see information. So, even with VOICE ID, which I think he could also set up albeit with
assistance, Mr C still has to rely on others to help him.
Also, with regard to assistance to remedy their mistake, I wouldve expected Lloyds to
discuss practical ways they could both adapt their service and provide support in line with
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) vulnerable customer guidance. I appreciate Mr Cs
practical suggestion of providing a security number part by email and part by text would have
security implications, however I cant see any evidence of either a discussion about this or
suggestions on how Lloyds could assist Mr C to resolve his security number issue.
So, as Im persuaded that this error has had a serious impact on a vulnerable person and
caused Mr C considerable distress, upset and a loss of confidence over a period of time, I
think Lloyds should increase their compensation to £500.
With regards to Lloyds accessibility and disability guidance which has a section for all blind
and partially sighted customers, I recognise Mr Cs frustration as it is clear that large print,
braille, audio cd and VOICE ID dont work for him. So, I can understand his desire for Lloyds
to adapt and modernise their adjustments due to his characteristics. However, the
adjustments Lloyds offer are for all blind and partially sighted customers and, as mentioned
above, although Mr C understandably wants the list to be expanded and improved, it is not
for our service to consider whether Lloyds policies discriminate against groups of 
customers.
So, having considered the above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this 
complaint and I require Lloyds to pay Mr C £500 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this 
complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C £500 compensation less any amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 4 December 
2023.Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Mr C and Lloyds the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I didnt receive a response from Mr C.
Lloyds said:
I can confirm that the Bank agrees with your proposal to increase the payment offered by 
£300.00 (£500.00 in total) for any distress and inconvenience caused. We are sorry that this 
matter could not be resolved previously and are pleased that a fair outcome has now been 
reached.
So, I reconsidered everything again. I made one minor correction to the following paragraph 
as I had intended to insert the words its not that in the following sentence / paragraph:
From reviewing the file and listening to recorded telephone conversations, its not that Lloyds 
have taken away the security number adjustment they put in place to support Mr C. Instead, 
theyve temporarily deactivated and then modified the adjustment. And, due to a combination 
of an unknown deactivation issue, Lloyds system design and Mr Cs sight having 
deteriorated, this security number adjustment requires Mr C to seek assistance from a 
sighted person.
Having reconsidered everything again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr 
C £500 compensation less any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman