DRN-4212938
The complaint
Mrs P complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) refused to accept 
her monthly payment offer to her credit card account, at a time she was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs P says due to a change in her financial circumstances she could no longer afford to pay 
the minimum payments on her credit card account and offered Virgin £100 per month. Mrs P 
says Virgin refused to accept her offer and continued to charge her interest and charges and 
sent threatening letters. Mrs P says Virgin are refusing to help her and she can only afford 
£100 per month which is being eaten up by the interest. 
Mrs P wants Virgin to agree to a payment plan at £100 per month and refund the interest 
from when she first logged her complaint in December 2021. 
Virgin says Mrs Ps credit card account went into arrears after the expiry of her 0% 
promotional offer in August 2021. Virgin says it offered Mrs P a hardship plan rather than the 
£100 per month she offered, as her income and expenditure showed a deficit, but this was 
declined by her.
Virgin says as a result Mrs Ps credit card account defaulted and was sold to a third- party 
debt management company. Virgin says it had correctly written to Mrs P regarding her 
arrears and default and has done nothing wrong. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says Virgin should have defaulted Mrs P when it became aware she couldnt 
afford the payments to her credit card account and because it didnt, this resulted in further 
interest and charges being applied to her credit card account. The investigator asked Virgin 
to refund any interest and charges from the point it became aware of Mrs Ps financial 
difficulties and to back date the default to this time. 
The investigator says Mrs P should now liaise with the debt management company to 
manage her account going forward, as he didnt feel it was unreasonable for Virgin to sell the 
debt once it had defaulted. 
Virgin didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said: 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to hear of Mrs Ps personal and financial issues and that must have been a 
difficult time for her.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin acted fairly when it defaulted Mrs Ps 
credit card account and sold the debt to a collection agency, even though Mrs P had offered 
to make monthly payments to them. 
Virgin has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every piece of information received, 
as I dont think its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision. Thats not to 
say I havent considered everything  I have. 
Its reasonable to say this isnt a straight-forward matter and I am satisfied Virgin did initially 
try to help Mrs P here, when it learned of her financial problems following a telephone call in 
early November 2021. 
Having listened to that call it becomes clear, following a comprehensive income and 
expenditure discussion, Mrs P wasnt in a position to make the payment plan of £100 per 
month she was offering Virgin. As a responsible lender I wouldnt expect it to accept a 
payment plan that could put unreasonable financial pressure on a consumer in those 
circumstances. What happened here was Virgins agent explained to Mrs P given her 
financial circumstances, the only option it had was to put her in a hardship plan meaning 
the interest and charges would be frozen and she could pay what she could comfortably 
afford each month or nothing at all. 
The agent also made clear to Mrs P this would result in arrears continuing to accrue and for 
the potential of the credit card account going into default and ultimately the account being 
sold to a debt management company. At this point Mrs P says she was concerned that her 
credit card debt would be sold to a debt management company, having had a poor 
experience in the past. Virgins agent then suggests to Mrs P she could speak with a named 
debt management charity for further advice and would provide her with 30 days breathing 
space if she wanted to go down that route  Mrs P accepted this and was told to call back 
within 30 days. This was followed up in writing by Virgin on 4 November 2021. 
I can also see Virgin wrote to Mrs P on 4 December 2021 asking her to contact them. 
From the information I have seen I cant see any evidence that Mrs P made further contact 
with Virgin within the timescales agreed, nor that she sought advice from a debt 
management charity as she agreed she would. 
I have seen over the months following other letters from Virgin asking for Mrs P to contact 
them and that it had attempted to call her. So, its not clear why Mrs P didnt get back to 
Virgin to discuss her options, it seems Mrs P simply wanted to continue to make the £100 
per month to her credit card account, but of course that wasnt something Virgin had agreed 
to, or was sufficient to meet her minimum monthly payments. So, with that in mind I cant say 
Virgin acted unfairly when it issued the arrears notices, default letters and then sold the debt 
to a debt management company, when it did. I have also seen correspondence to Mrs P 
confirming to her this was a course of action it might take  so I cant say Mrs P wasnt made 
aware of that. 
As I said earlier this isnt a straight-forward matter and I have no doubt that Mrs P was going 
through a difficult time emotionally and financially, but its also reasonable to say Mrs P did 
have the opportunity to follow up the telephone call she had with Virgin in early November 
2021, but I cant  see she ever did that. While I understand the points the investigator makes, I dont support his view Virgin should 
have defaulted Mrs P at the point she told it of her financial problems, I wouldnt expect that 
to happen until a minimum of three-monthly payments had been missed and in any event 
that may not have been in her best interests at that time, as she told Virgin she was going to 
speak to a debt management charity. 
While Mrs P will be disappointed, I am satisfied Virgin did offer support to her as it provided 
two 30-day periods of breathing space and offered further support by way of a hardship plan. 
In addition, Virgin attempted to contact her on a number of occasions both by telephone and 
in writing- taking this into account, I cant see it could have done much more than that here. 
I understand Mrs P has now engaged with the debt management company and she has told 
this service it has been helpful, which is a positive step forward. So, taking everything into 
account I wont be asking anymore of Virgin here. 
Mrs P has responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs P and Virgin until 28 June 2023 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Virgin have made no further comments, but Mrs P has raised various points concerning my 
provisional decision, that I will now address.
Mrs P says Virgin never called her and it was her calling them. While I understand the point 
Mrs P makes here, I can only consider the evidence provided to this service. I can see from 
various correspondence sent by Virgin, it confirms it had been trying to contact Mrs P and 
importantly in those letters asks her to contact them to discuss the situation on her account. 
Despite this theres no evidence to suggest Mrs P ever telephoned Virgin to specifically 
discuss the hardship plan that was previously offered to her, from the time she spoke to 
Virgin in November 2021, and before the credit card account was defaulted. 
Its reasonable to say if Mrs P had held further discussions about her financial situation after 
the 30-day breathing space was provided, an arrangement could have been put in place to 
freeze the interest and charges as Virgin had previously agreed to do as part of the hardship 
plan  but that didnt happen.
Mrs P says she did take advice from a debt charity and provided a reference number to 
Virgin. While Im not disputing Mrs P may have spoken with the debt charity, whats 
important here is theres no evidence to show that charity or Mrs P provided Virgin with any 
concrete details of what was being proposed, so it could consider those options. Afterall, 
Virgin would of course need to agree to any such proposals. 
So here, while Mrs P may not agree Virgin had offered her a plan that would have frozen 
interest and charges, but she decided not to take up that offer, partly due to her concerns 
about being passed to a debt collection agency. Given no firm alternative proposals were 
given to Virgin, despite it putting in writing to Mrs P what the consequences might be, I cant 
say Virgin acted unreasonably here when it finally defaulted Mrs Ps credit card account and 
placed it with debt collection agent as it previously said it would. Its worth mentioning even if 
the debt charity had provided a proposal to Virgin, thats not to say it wouldnt have placed 
the account with debt collection agents in any event. Mrs P has made the point she was going through a difficult time following her separation and 
says, so I probably didnt communicate as best as I could have. While perhaps that is 
understandable here and I have sympathy with Mrs Ps situation at that time, this has meant 
Virgin havent been provided with the information and proposals it needed to put in place any 
other alternatives to her other than what it had already offered under the hardship plan. So 
here, I cant hold Virgin responsible for the lack of any direct proposals from her or the debt 
charity regarding her financial situation at that time. 
As I have said previously, Im pleased to see Mrs P is now communicating with the debt 
collection agents and a suitable plan has been put in place, which hopefully will put Mrs P on 
a stronger financial footing going forward. 
Taking all of this into account, while Mrs P will be disappointed, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision, so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman