DRN-3190591
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited recorded two missed payments on his credit file when he 
took a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that MBNA contacted him to let him know it could offer assistance with 
payments. In May 2021 Mr B applied online for a payment holiday from MBNA. Mr B has told 
us he thought it wouldnt impact his credit file, in line with support hes received from other 
businesses in the past. 
Mr B later complained that MBNA had recorded two missed payments on his credit file. 
MBNA didnt agree it had treated Mr B unfairly and said it had told him missed payments 
would be recorded on his credit file during the application process. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
MBNA had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information MBNA provided online when Mr B applied for support. I know 
Mr B feels MBNA failed to make the impact to his credit file clear, but I think its fair to note 
that it specifically advised any missed payments will show on your credit file during the 
payment holiday application process. I can see there was a lot of important information 
provided about the payment holiday process, but Im satisfied the information about how 
missed payments impact a credit file was made clear. 
The Payment Deferral Guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority said payment 
holidays granted during the pandemic shouldnt have an impact on a consumers credit file. 
But the scheme guidance says qualifying applications had to be made by 31 March 2021. 
Payment holidays granted by businesses after that date arent covered by the Payment 
Deferral Guidance which means MBNA can record payments that werent made as missed. 
Mr B has told us hes concerned about the cost of credit going forward because the 
information recorded by MBNA will impact potential interest rates. But MBNA has to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies. And Im satisfied the way MBNA 
recorded Mr Bs payments is in line with what happened and accurate. I havent found that 
MBNA treated Mr B unfairly by recording missed payments. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied MBNA has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman