DRN-3142032
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged her an 
additional premium on her motor insurance policy. Reference to Advantage includes its 
agents.
What happened
Mrs H took out a policy with Advantage via an online comparison site. After she took the 
policy, Advantage asked her to provide some documents to validate it. Mrs H sent these 
documents.
Advantage said that the V5C document showed that Mrs H had owned the car since 2020. 
But it said Mrs H had told it shed owned the car since 2014 when she took the policy out.
Advantage said had it known Mrs H had owned the car since 2020, it would have charged 
her more for the policy. It said Mrs H owed it £23.82 plus an amendment fee of £30.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and complained to us. One of our investigators recommended 
her complaint be upheld. She said she hadnt seen the questions Mrs H was asked so 
couldnt say shed failed to take reasonable care. She also said she hadnt seen the 
evidence needed from Advantage to show what difference this alleged misrepresentation 
made. So, she recommended Advantage refund Mrs H the additional £53.82 it had charged 
her.
Mrs H agreed with our investigator. But Advantage didnt respond, so the case has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage hasnt specifically said this case relates to misrepresentation. But Im satisfied it 
does. Advantage has priced Mrs Hs policy based on information she provided when she 
took it out. Advantage has found that that information isnt correct and said it would have 
charged her more had it known the correct information when Mrs H took the policy. So, this 
case does relate to misrepresentation.
Advantage has said Mrs H told it she owned the car since 2014, when the V5C shes 
provided shows shes owned the car since 2020. But in order to see whether Advantage can 
take any action I need to see the questions she was asked when she took out the policy. 
And Ive not been provided that.
This is key, as without these questions I cant be satisfied Mrs H failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. And Advantage can only take an action under CIDRA 
if Mrs H failed to take reasonable care. Exactly what question Mrs C was asked is crucial, 
because, for example, the answer to When did you own the car? might be entirely different 
to When did you buy the car?. This is especially important in this case as Mrs H never 
purchased the car, she transferred ownership of it from her husband  a named driver on the 
policy - who purchased it some years prior.
Therefore, Im not satisfied Advantage has shown that Mrs H failed to take reasonable care. 
So, its not entitled to charge Mrs H more premium. Whats more, even if Mrs H had failed to 
take reasonable care, simply charging an additional premium and an admin fee isnt a 
remedy available to it under CIDRA.
Putting things right
Advantage hasnt shown that Mrs H failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Its not entitled to charge her the additional premium of £23.82, or the 
administration fee of £30 without showing this. It should return both these to Mrs H. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. To put things right Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited should:
Pay Mrs H £53.82 plus 8% simple interest (to be calculated from the day this fee was 
charged to the day it is paid back to Mrs H)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman