DRN-2502843
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying
Premier account, which was sold to him in June 2001.
Mr M says it was mis-sold because he felt obliged to have the Premier account to obtain a
large overdraft and to get better service from Barclays.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what both parties had said and provided, and he
concluded that the Premier account had not been mis-sold.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have considered, I am unable to conclude that the Premier account 
was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where evidence is missing and matters are in 
dispute, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold to Mr M, there is very little 
information available about what exactly the Premier account provided when it was sold to 
Mr M. But I do know in 2003 the Premier account included a relationship manager and 
access to a relationship executive team; arranged overdrafts of up to £15,000; alongside 
other benefits such as foreign currency accounts, emergency assistance and travel and 
leisure discounts.
 
I appreciate that the account was sold in 2001. So am open to the possibility that the 
Premier account may have been different then. But neither Mr M, nor Barclays, have 
provided any evidence to suggest it was significantly different when it was first sold to Mr M. 
So without anything further to go on, I think it was likely to have been similar in 2001 to what 
it was like in 2003.
Mr M says that he was led to believe he needed to have the Premier account to get a larger 
overdraft and to get a better service. And from the statements that Barclays has been able to 
provide, I can see Mr M has had a £15,000 arranged overdraft for a number of years. 
So, when taking everything into account, I think what Mr M recalls he was told about the 
Premier account in 2001 was most likely to have been correct. It seems that a key feature of 
the account has been to provide a dedicated relationship manager. And it seems likely that 
Mr M was only able to have an arranged overdraft of £15,000, because he had a Premier 
account. I say this particularly because Barclays has been able to provide an overdraft 
charges leaflet from 2001. And this says that personal accounts i.e. non-Premier accounts, 
were only allowed arranged overdrafts of up to £5,000 (subject to application and status).
As such, Im unable to see how the account was mis-sold with the information that is 
available to me. Overall it seems likely that the account offered what Mr M was told it would 
provide. So I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays had mis-led him into agreeing to the 
account.
 
I appreciate that Mr M may now think that the account was mis-sold. This could perhaps be 
because of what he has read recently in the media about packaged bank accounts being 
mis-sold. Or perhaps because, with the benefit of hindsight, he now feels the account has 
been poor value for money. But neither of these reasons mean that Barclays was wrong to 
have sold the Premier account to Mr M when it did. And for the reasons outlined above, I am 
unable to say that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably by recommending he upgrade to 
a Premier account in 2001.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman