DRN-2972193
The complaint
Mr B says Shelby Finance Ltd (Shelby) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr B also says that
Shelby should delete the credit file entry in relation to his loan.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
For clarity Company A is the company who provided Mr B with the loan. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Shelby issued Mr B with a final response letter, explaining that it wasnt responsible for what
happened when the loan was given by Company A. But it accepted something may have
gone wrong after a payment plan was set up. So, it agreed to remove some of the adverse
information from Mr Bs credit file and it also re-worked the loan balance so Mr B wouldnt
have anything further to pay.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think it was one that could be upheld. She
concluded that this service couldnt consider the unaffordable lending aspect of the
complaint because Shelby wasnt responsible for the sale of the loan.
In terms of the credit file, she didnt think Shelby needed to remove the record because in
her view while the administrators had agreed to delete this record, she felt it was more likely
than not this was due to the loan being sold on to Shelby. So, Shelby reporting information to
the credit reference agencies wasnt an error and it was doing as this service wouldve
expected.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicator, in response he made the following points;
he made an unaffordable lending complaint but was bounced between Shelby and
the administrators
Shelby should remove the loan because it was unaffordable.
After the complaint was referred for a final decision Mr B provided some additional
comments he said;
Shelby had removed the interest, but this wasnt something Mr B had agreed to and
believed this was because his unaffordable lending complaint had been upheld; and
the administrators upheld his affordable complaint but still sold the loan to Shelby.
As no agreement could be reached the case has now been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that Shelby did raise that it considered this complaint to be outside
of this services jurisdiction because in its view Mr B took too long to bring the complaint to 
our service after it issued him with the final response letter. However, Shelby has now given 
this service consent to consider the complaint, so I say no more about whether the case is in 
or outside of this services jurisdiction.
Unaffordable lending
Mr B took one loan for £750 from Company A in December 2018. Mr B was required to
make four repayments of around £320 per month. However, Company A had financial
difficulties and appointed administrators.
The administrators sold a number of outstanding loans to Shelby, and Mr Bs loan was one
such loan. It then fell to Shelby to collect any outstanding balance that was due. However,
Shelby didnt take on any liabilities or responsibility for the approving of loans. This means
Shelby isnt responsible for the actions (or inaction) of Company A when this loan was
approved.
As such, I cant make a finding in this decision as whether Company A was right or wrong to
grant the loan. All, I can make a finding on, is whether Shelby did anything wrong after it took
responsibility for collecting the outstanding loan balance, so for example, collection activity
or whether the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file is correct.
I therefore say no more about the unaffordable lending element of Mr Bs complaint.
Credit file information
Mr B says the administrators agreed that the loan from Company A shouldnt have been
granted. And the administrators have removed the loan recorded from Company A from his
credit file. He therefore feels that Shelby should also remove this loan entry from his credit
file.
The FRL issued by Shelby in November 2019, made it clear that it had made some errors in
reporting Mr Bs repayment plan that he had agreed with it. So, it agreed any negative
information from September and October 2019 should be removed. But it said that any
adverse information reported before this date is accurate as Mr B was in arrears with his
loan repayments. This seems a reasonable outcome for September and October 2019.
Shelby also explained why Company A reported information to one credit reference agency,
and why that may not be there anymore. And then it explained which credit reference
agency Shelby uses to report information.
Finally, Shelby explained that it was going to be making adjustments to the outstanding
balance which resulted in the loan being repaid. So, Mr B didnt need to make any further
repayments. Shelby also made the following statement;
I can confirm the balance has not been adjusted due to [name of administrators] 
agreeing with your affordability complaint.
However, what is in dispute is whether Shelby should carry out further action  such as
delete its record from Mr Bs credit report.The key here is what the administrators have said. If, following Mr Bs unaffordable lending
complaint it had agreed that the loan shouldnt have been granted, then on balance, Id
agree with Mr B that Shelby needed to make further adjustments to the credit file. However,
Ive not seen any evidence either in letter or in an email that suggests that the administrators
considered Mr Bs unaffordable lending complaint and gave him a favourable outcome.
Mr B has sent me copies of emails between himself and the administrators. But there is no
indication that it has agreed with his unaffordable lending compliant. One such email is on 2
December 2019, where the administrator says;
We confirm that your loan was acquired by Shelby Finance Limited (Shelby), who
will administer your loan going forwards and you should have received an email from
Shelby to this effect. Please contact Shelby for loan related queries and
[administrators] for queries in relation to any affordability complaint or potential
redress claim.
Mr B then went back to the administrators to say that Shelby had told him the administrators
had agreed with his unaffordable lending complaint and therefore was asking them to
make adjustments to his credit file. Ive looked through the various emails and I cant see
Shelby told Mr B this. Indeed, the final response letter from Shelby makes it clear that the
balance reduction was a separate issue from any unaffordable lending complaint.
In response, the administrators told Mr B on 2 December 2018 the following;
Thank you for your email.
The Joint Administrators have previously reported the position as at the date of their
appointment (25 February 2019) to the credit reference agencies that [they] worked
with. The Joint Administrators have also now submitted final reports to the credit
reference agencies in relation to:
Loans that have been sold;
Loans that have been paid in full by customers since 25 February 2019;
Loans that have been written-off since 25 February 2019; and
Redress due to customers in respect of previous loans made by [Company A], as
identified by [Company As} Claims Calculator.
Please note, where loans have been identified by the Claims Calculator as being
unaffordable or in respect of which redress is due, we have requested that these
loans are removed from customers records with the credit reference agencies.
In addition, as some customers were not able to make payments by their usual
payment method since the administration date, the Joint Administrators froze all
interest and charges on outstanding loan balances with effect from 25 February
2019.
Customers credit files should now reflect the final status of their loans, and we do
not anticipate that any customers credit history will be adversely impacted as a
result of the administration of [Company A].
Mr B went back to the administrators and on the 3 December 2019 it told him;
Thank you for your email.
We tried to contact you today at 10:59am, regarding your query.
We have escalated this matter regarding your credit file and this will be investigated
further.I havent seen any further emails from the administrators so I dont know what the above
outcome was.
The 2 December 2018 just looks to me to be a statement of fact in relation to what the
administrators would report to the credit reference agencies. Given Mr Bs loan had been
sold to Shelby, this is what was reported (and administrators appear to have taken the
decision to delete the record).
But the report to the credit reference agencies would only be able to update the data
Company A was reporting, not the information that Shelby was reporting. This is because
Shelby was reporting the loan and so the credit reference agencies could only take
instructions from Shelby about what it is reporting.
The email also says that any customers who have had a successful unaffordable lending
claims would also have their records removed  but as Ive said Ive not seen a record of any
successful affordability complaint.
However, Shelby was and is entitled to report information of the status of the account to the
credit reference agencies from the point that it became responsible for the loan. It has, as far
as I can see already made the adjustments in outlined in the final response. But I dont think
it is unreasonable of it to have reported adverse markers during the period when Mr B was in
arrears with his loan.
As it stands I dont think that Shelby needs to do anymore in relation to the credit file, the
information appears to be accurate, and it purchased the loan and therefore should report an
accurate reflection of the running of the account. So, Shelby hasnt made an error in what it
is currently reporting and it doesnt have to take any further action.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, but I hope my
explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr B and Shelby was given the opportunity to provide this service with any further 
evidence or comments that it wanted me to consider. 
Shelby didnt provide any further evidence or comments for me to consider. 
Mr B didnt agree with the findings that were reached in the provisional decision. In summary 
he said;
information has been provided to show the loan was unaffordable
its not fair that the company that provided the loan has washed their hands of the 
situation by selling the loan on
Mr B wants the negative information removed from his credit file because this 
information has been recorded against a loan that he shouldnt have been given. 
The crux of Mr Bs comments surrounds what happened with Company A and how the loan 
was irresponsibly lent. I completely understand Mr Bs frustration with what has happened 
with Company A but as I explained in the provisional decision when the administrators sold 
the outstanding loans to Shelby, it then fell to Shelby to collect any outstanding balances that 
were due. However, Shelby didnt take on any liabilities or responsibility in relation to the sale of the 
loan and so I cant conclude or make a finding that Shelby did something wrong when the 
loan was granted. 
This means, under this complaint Im not able to make a finding on whether the loan was 
correctly lent. Because Shelby wasnt responsible for the sale, any complaint about the 
lending is matter for Mr B and Company A (or the administrators). So, I cant make a finding 
on whether the loan was correctly lent, it therefore follows that I cant ask Shelby to remove 
the information from Mr Bs credit file as a result of the loan being irresponsible lent because 
based on the information that Ive seen neither Company A or the administrators have much 
such a finding. 
I know Mr B has made comments about the actions of Company A and how it has washed 
its hands of the situation and understandably Mr B feels this is unfair. But, Shelby (who this 
decision and complaint is about) isnt responsible for the financial situation of Company A. I 
appreciate why Mr B feels this is unfair, but unfortunately, the financial position of Company 
A can have no bearing on the outcomes and actions of Shelby. 
I can only consider, in this case whether after it purchased Mr Bs loan that it recorded 
accurate information with the credit reference agency. And Ive not been provided with any 
new comments to suggest that Shelby has done something else wrong and therefore should 
remove the record from Mr Bs credit file. 
So, having thought about the comments that Mr B provided, I still dont think Shelby needs to 
make any further adjustments to Mr Bs credit file and Im therefore not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
I know Mr B will be disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, but I hope my
explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision Im not upholding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman