DRN-2619879
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
What happened
Mr S took out his mortgage in August 1988 and his PPI policy started a few months 
afterwards, in December 1988. BoS and Mr S agreed that the sale took place in a meeting in 
a branch of the bank, and that BoS recommended the policy for Mr S. Mr S told us he wasnt 
given a choice about taking the PPI  and indeed felt pressured into taking it - and didnt 
need the cover. 
BoS told us the policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr S at a 
monthly cost of £17.70. The monthly benefit was £250.00. If he had made a successful 
claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim for unemployment, and 24 
months for accident or sickness. It looks as though the policy was renamed in 1996, and Mr 
S was then issued with a new certificate of insurance showing the monthly benefit as 
£300.00.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS couldnt provide copies of any documentation from the point of sale, although this is not 
surprising as the mortgage was repaid in 1999  so over 21 years ago - and businesses are 
not required to keep records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us a copy of its 
computer records of Mr Ss mortgage account (and the PPI), including an extract from the 
list of transactions on the account. It also sent in copies of several letters it sent to Mr S 
about the PPI, and a copy of the mortgage offer (although it seems these may have been 
provided to it by Mr S). BoS couldnt provide the policy terms and conditions from 1988 but 
referred us to the earliest document available. I also have copies of various documents that 
Mr S sent in. I have read and carefully considered all of these documents, although I have 
not referred to them all individually.
Ive first considered what Mr S said about not being given a choice about taking the PPI. 
I have no documentary evidence from the point of sale, and its not clear why the PPI came 
into force a few months after the mortgage started. Looking at the mortgage offer dated July 
1988, theres no mention of PPI  it only refers to the endowment policy that Mr S was taking 
out as the repayment vehicle, and property insurance. I wouldve expected to see a 
reference to PPI on the offer if Mr S had agreed to take it at that point. 
I have a separate note headed summary of monthly payments, which is undated and 
contains handwritten information against a number of headings. I dont think this was part of 
the mortgage offer  some of the figures are not accurate when compared to the offer and 
the other mortgage details I have (for example it refers to a mortgage guarantee premium 
which was not actually charged) and it would be unusual for a handwritten and undated note 
to be part of a formal document. It seems to me more likely that it formed part of the earlier 
mortgage discussion. 
This note includes the amount and term of the loan, mortgage interest and endowment 
payments, and property insurance and PPI premiums  although the PPI figure is shown as 
£10.00, which doesnt seem to be the amount Mr S eventually paid, although theres no 
information about how this amount was arrived at. The note simply sets out various 
payments, and there are no details about the relevant products. I dont consider that 
including a PPI premium in this list is enough, in itself, for me to say that the policy was 
presented as compulsory  the note seems to be setting out various costs which Mr S might 
reasonably have wanted to know. 
Ive also kept in mind that Mr S was advised to take the policy, so its possible he has 
remembered a suggestion that he should take it as a requirement that he must have it. 
Additionally, as I dont have much information about the sequence of events, Ive taken into 
account what we know about other BoS PPI sales at around the same time. But I havent 
seen particular problems with PPI being presented as compulsory in other, similar BoS 
sales. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly say its 
most likely that the PPI was presented as compulsory and that Mr S was pressured into 
taking the policy, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on these 
points  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
BoS advised Mr S to take out the policy, so it shouldve made sure it was suitable for him. 
On balance I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr S wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear how the cost of the 
PPI was explained to Mr S, although Ive mentioned the note setting out various figures, and 
I dont think hed have agreed to take it without some idea of the cost. And Ive no evidence 
to suggest the premium was unaffordable for him.
Mr S said that he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of three months full 
pay followed by three months half pay. He didnt mention any entitlement to redundancy pay 
from his employer, although he said he had savings he couldve relied on, equivalent to 
nearly a years salary. He sent in some evidence of his savings but didnt have all of the 
relevant records  again this is not surprising given the length of time that has passed. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments 
in this case, I consider it more likely than not that Mr S would still have taken out the PPI had 
BoS fully explained the terms and conditions. The policy provided useful benefits which 
would  notwithstanding the employment benefits and savings he mentioned  help him 
manage the consequences were he to be made redundant, or be unable to work through 
accident or disability. Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event of a successful claim for redundancy, and potentially longer in the event of accident or sickness, allowing Mr S to use his savings for his everyday living expenses. And 
I think Mr S could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was 
secured on his home.
So on balance, although I cant know whether BoS clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
think Mr S would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if 
he couldnt work. This means I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman