DRN-2454246
The complaint
Mr W complains about UIA (Insurance) Limited trading as UIA Mutual Insurances (UIA) offer 
to settle his claim under his buildings insurance. He wants UIA to complete the repairs and 
pay compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr W says that in 2017 the sealant on his bath separated from the wall leading to water 
leaking through the ceiling downstairs and along the wall. He reported this to UIA in 
February 2017 who arranged for a claim investigator  who Ill refer to as company C  to 
attend and inspect the damage and to provide a report. UIA were informed there was a crack 
around the bath plug area which was causing the leak. Company C were awaiting Mr Ws 
quotation for the water damage and, having not heard back, they closed their file. 
 
Company C then contacted UIA in August 2019 to say that Mr W had been in contact. 
Company C told UIA that no work had been carried out by Mr W but he had now obtained a 
quote for the works. Mr W had submitted a quote for £6,880. Company C explained to Mr W 
that UIA would only pay £1,767.19 to settle the claim which was subject to £200 deduction 
for the policy excess. They said this represents the estimate of damages they had carried 
out in 2017. 
 
Mr W complained and, in their response, UIA said, due to the timescales involved their 
liability would only cover the scope of works identified by company C in 2017. As no works 
had been carried out in the bathroom the damage would only have got worse. They said, the 
quote Mr W had obtained included items which were not affected by the escape of water. 
UIA said the replacement of the whole bathroom was not covered under Mr Ws policy and 
they would only be responsible for the water damage that occurred in 2017. UIA offered 
£1,567.19 to Mr W  and this was subsequently paid. Mr W wasnt happy with this so he 
referred his complaint to our service. 
      
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She felt UIA hadnt acted unfairly in not settling 
Mr Ws claim in line with his quote. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ws buildings insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says accidental damage is covered under the policy. I can see that, following 
company Cs visit, Mr W arranged for a plumber to attend to trace the source of the water 
leak. The report from the plumber identified there was a crack around the bath plug area. 
UIA updated their records to show the insured event was accidental damage rather than 
escape of water. So, given this is covered under Mr Ws policy, I think it was reasonable for 
UIA to consider the claim. 
I understand Mr W isnt happy with the settlement figure paid by UIA so Ive looked into this 
further.
 
Insurers often appoint claim investigators experienced in this type of work to look at the 
damage, and thats what UIA did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for UIA to 
rely on company Cs comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Ive seen the 
comments made by company C and this identifies damage to the dining room ceiling and 
wallpaper and to the bathroom floor. Company C have also taken photographs showing the 
damage and this supports their comments about the extent of the damage. The report 
describes the repairs which will need to be carried out. I have seen a separate document 
which provides a more detailed breakdown of the work which needs to be carried out and 
this sets out an estimate of £1,767.19. Mr Ws policy schedule sets out his excess as £200, 
so, I think it was reasonable for UIA to offer £1,567.19 as settlement for the claim.    
Company C have noted on the report that Mr W hadnt got back to them with a quote so they 
closed their file. I can see company C wrote to Mr W in June 2017 and noted that he wanted 
to use his own contractor to carry out the work. They said Mr W had confirmed he would be 
obtaining estimates and would send these to company C for review. Company C said they 
were still waiting to hear from Mr W and asked him to provide this information within 14 days 
so they could arrange settlement of his claim. They said, if they dont hear back within this 
timeframe, they will assume Mr W no longer wishes to pursue his claim and would close 
their file. Company C wrote again about three weeks later to let Mr W know they had closed 
their file. The information I have seen shows that Mr W didnt get back to company C until 
two years later.    
The policy document sets out duties for a policyholder and says: 
You must, at your own expense, give us all details and evidence that we may need, 
including written estimates 
 You should note that any failure to fully comply with these conditions may mean that 
we are unable to deal with your claim.
I think it was reasonable for company C to close their file on the basis they hadnt heard 
back from Mr W. And, it wasnt therefore unreasonable for UIA to not settle the claim in 
2017. Ive looked at the estimate prepared by company C and compared this to the quote 
provided by Mr W. There are a number of items covered in Mr Ws quote which werent 
assessed as requiring repair in 2017. It may be that over the two years there was further 
damage as a result of the repairs not being carried out in 2017, but I cant hold UIA 
responsible for that. According to the report prepared by company C, the scope of the work 
identified by them would have resolved the problem and nothing I have seen makes me 
doubt this. So, I dont think its unreasonable for UIA to decline to settle Mr Ws claim in line 
with his quote.
I note Mr W says he was told by company C their estimate of repairs is less than £350 and 
he found it difficult to find a contractor who could carry out the repairs for this estimate. Ive 
seen a letter sent by company C which says this. UIA say this letter should have just been a 
withdrawal letter to let Mr W know the file had been closed on the basis company C hadnt 
heard from him. I can see this mightve caused some confusion, but I cant see Mr W 
responded to the letters sent by company C asking for a quote or that he got in touch with them until two years later. And, I think company C had made it clear they were waiting to 
hear from Mr W with a quote in order to settle his claim.  
   
I am sorry to hear about how Mr W and his family are being inconvenienced by the state of 
the bathroom. But, from the information I have seen, I think UIA handled the claim in 2017 
promptly and fairly and did allow Mr W time to get back to them with quotes. 
I can see UIA have paid Mr W £1,567.19 and I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking UIA to take any further steps.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman