DRN-3597662
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his motor warranty policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Bapchild are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr S bought a car and took out a motor warranty alongside it. When he had a problem with 
his car he agreed with the administrator of the policy that he would take it to a main 
dealership for repair. The problem was identified, and the repair was agreed.
However, the administrator told Mr S that, in line with the policy terms and conditions, it 
would only provide a second-hand or reconditioned part, or pay the cash equivalent. Mr S 
complained to Bapchild and then this Service as he wasnt happy about this. He thought he 
should get the full new part price and the full costs he incurred and complained about the 
delay in paying the claim.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Bapchild had acted reasonably and in line with the policy in only offering to pay the 
equivalent of a reconditioned or second-hand part. Although Mr S said he wasnt told this by 
the salesperson our investigator thought the policy was clear and that there wasnt any 
unnecessary delay in paying the claim.
As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mr S position  he simply wanted a new part fitted and for this to 
be done by the main dealership. But the policy doesnt cover this, and it is clear that 
reconditioned or second-hand parts will be used so I cant say Bapchild have acted 
unreasonably here. And it offered to facilitate the repair elsewhere or to send a part to Mr S 
chosen repairer to be fitted so I think it acted fairly in the circumstances. It was Mr S choice 
to continue with the repair at the main dealership and he could have allowed his car to be 
repaired elsewhere if he wanted to use his warranty in full.
I know Mr S feels that the policy may have been mis-sold as he wasnt made aware of this 
by the seller at the time he bought his car. But I do think he should have looked at the policy 
documentation and got a feel for the general cover he was provided with around the time of 
sale. And if the policy documentation wasnt provided then I agree with our investigator that it 
would be reasonable to request it. I know Mr S has said he wouldnt have bought the policy if 
he was aware that second-hand or reconditioned parts could be used. But this isnt an 
unusual approach across a number of insurance products and warranties, and I dont think it 
is unreasonable to take this approach with a second-hand car. And Mr S has had the use of 
the policy, including paying a contribution to this claim, which is ongoing and will cover future 
claims and gives peace of mind. Plus, the policy provided cover and peace of mind in 
relation to breakdown cover which was an additional benefit of the policy.
However, I note Bapchild didnt pay Mr S VAT on the price of the part when I think it should 
have done. I say this as Mr S would have to pay VAT and couldnt claim it back as this was a 
private repair and policy. And as Mr S had to pay VAT I think it only fair that Bapchild pay 
him the cost of the part including VAT now, plus 8% simple interest for the time he has been 
without the money owed.
Finally, Ive considered the delay in paying the claim and I can see that things dragged out a 
little at the time of payment. But I can also see that there was a problem getting the correct 
invoice documentation for payment which was partly contributed to by the repairing garage. 
And so I dont think Bapchild acted unreasonably here and there was always going to be 
some delay in getting payment across in circumstances like these.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr S said that his issues were as stated 
from the beginning of his complaint and that he didnt have anything further to add other than 
he felt the provisional decision was balanced and noted its content. 
While Bapchild said it didnt agree that it should pay the VAT. It says the reason behind 
offering the cost exclusive of VAT was that it had offered to supply the part and if the parts 
had been supplied through Bapchild then it would have reclaimed the VAT element. So, 
Bapchild feels that it shouldnt have to pay the additional cost as this wouldnt have been 
paid in the event the customer had the repair carried out in line with the terms. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Bapchilds point here I dont think it would have been clear to Mr 
S that Bapchild wouldnt be paying him VAT when he reluctantly agreed to accept the 
payment for the part, as opposed to the whole repair. And this followed the fact that Bapchild 
agreed that Mr S could take his car to a main dealership which impacted his position as they 
clearly wouldnt use second-hand parts in any event. Plus, Bapchild havent had to pay for 
the repair and installation in any event so the cost it has incurred as part of the repair has 
been significantly reduced. 
So, I think it is only fair and reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, for 
Bapchild to pay the VAT element for the part as Mr S had to pay this, plus simple interest for 
the time Mr S has been without the money.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Bapchild 
Motoring World (Kent) Limited to pay Mr S the cost of the part including VAT. And to pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement for the shortfall. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman