DRN-3115477
The complaint
 Mr L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums he paid for a 
single trip travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
 On 27 November 2019, Mr L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy with Great 
Lakes over the telephone for a holiday which was due to take place from 11 until 23 May 
2020. 
Mr L paid a total of £823.04 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
travel insurance cover, which also covered him for a number of declared medical conditions. 
He also paid an additional premium of £40.35 (excluding IPT) for connecting flight cover, 
travel disruption extension cover, terrorism cancellation and excess waiver cover. 
The cost of Mr Ls policy also included a discount of £49.68, which he received at the point 
he purchased his policy. In total, Mr L paid £986.39 for his policy including IPT.
On 27 April 2020, Mr L contacted Great Lakes to explain that he was unable to travel to his 
intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He asked Great Lakes to cancel 
his policy and refund the premium hed paid.
Great Lakes informed Mr L that a full refund couldnt be provided as his 14 day cooling off 
period had expired and, under the terms of his policy, no refund was due. But it said he 
could either change the dates for his policy or receive a pro rata refund by way of a voucher, 
which would be valid for use within 36 months. 
Great Lakes offered Mr L a credit voucher for £99.30 which it said represented a pro-rata 
refund of the premiums hed paid. But Mr L wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 27 November 2019 and the policy covered various risks 
during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought Great Lakes offer to refund by voucher was fair and reasonable. But they 
didnt think it had correctly calculated the pro-rata refund that was due to Mr L. So, they 
recommended upholding this complaint and asked Great Lakes to recalculate the refund. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and recalculated Mr Ls 
refund in line with their recommendation. But Mr L disagreed with our investigators view of 
his complaint. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of 
resolving this complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Is Mr L entitled to a full refund of the premium?  
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to receive a full refund of 
the premiums because: 
Cover under Mr Ls policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate he received. Im satisfied Mr 
L was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to his policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
Mr L wasnt just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered him for cancellation cover from 27 November 2019. So, the premium he paid 
covered the risk of him having to cancel his holiday due to any of a number of listed 
events insured under the policy including, for example, him falling ill with a declared 
pre-existing medical condition.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. 
In this case, I can see that Great Lakes calculated Mr Ls pro-rata refund of his 
premiums from 27 April 2020 until the date his trip was due to end. Great Lakes used this date as the relevant policy cancellation date as thats the date Mr L first asked it 
to cancel his policy. 
Mr L has provided evidence to our service showing that his holiday was cancelled on 
16 April 2020. Great Lakes was bearing a risk of the holiday being cancelled up until 
16 April 2020. But it was no longer carrying that risk once the holiday was cancelled. 
So, in the overall circumstances, I think Great Lakes should calculate Mr Ls refund 
from 16 April 2020. This pro-rata refund would then take into account the 38 days of 
unused cover from the date of the holiday cancellation to the date the holiday was 
due to end, which would be fair and reasonable.
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
 
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mr L, it used its 
discretion to offer him a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro-rata 
monetary refund. This voucher is valid for 36 months and our service would view this 
as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which Mr L can use it towards future travel insurance 
policies he may wish to take out.
Mr L has told our investigator that hed prefer a pro-rata monetary refund as an 
alternative to a credit voucher because he isnt intending to travel in the future due to 
his age and health. But thats his choice  I havent seen any deterioration in health 
conditions that might preclude travel and I can see that Mr L was prepared to travel in 
May 2020 with the health conditions he declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in 
offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from 
industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mr L because of the 
unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. I 
therefore think its offer of a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
As Ive already mentioned, Mr L was given a discount of £49.68 at the point of sale. Ive 
seen the refund calculation formula initially used by Great Lakes, but I dont agree this leads 
to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint for the reasons Ill 
go on to explain. 
When Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mr L, this was based on it removing the 
discount he received at the end of the calculation. I say this because Great Lakes starting 
point was to add the discount onto the price Mr L paid. It then subtracted the additional cover 
cost and divided this amount by the 179 days of cover Mr L had purchased. It then multiplied 
that sum by the number of days he wasnt on risk and subtracted the discount hed received. 
I dont agree this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk. I can see Great Lakes has now agreed to issue Mr L 
a voucher in line with this calculation.
 
Should Mr L receive a refund of the Additional Cover Options he purchased? I can also see that when Great Lakes initially calculated the refund it offered Mr L it didnt 
include any refund for the additional cover hed purchased. I dont think that was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr L paid for optional travel disruption extension cover. This cover includes extended 
cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced stay 
benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk of a claim under the optional travel 
disruption extension cover from 16 April 2020. So, it would be fair and reasonable for Mr L to 
receive a pro-rata refund of the premium he paid for this cover.
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr L paid for his excess waiver 
cover. Excess waiver cover means that no excess is payable in respect of any claim 
submitted under the general cover outlined in the policy. But Great Lakes were no longer 
covering the risk of a claim and therefore the use of the excess waiver cover from the date 
the holiday was cancelled.
Mr L also purchased connecting flight cover, which provides a benefit in the event of a 
missed flight departure and travel delay. So, this cover would only have provided a benefit to 
Mr L in the event of a claim occurring after hed left his home to depart on his trip. As he 
didnt travel, Great Lakes didnt ever cover the risk of a claim being made under this 
additional cover option. So, it would be fair and reasonable for Mr L to receive a full refund of 
the premium he paid for this cover.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the 
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult to 
tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr L didnt travel on his 
planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the additional cover 
options attached to his single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover 
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra cover 
at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr Ls holiday 
was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Finally, Great Lakes has said the prices of the additional cover options have been calculated 
on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the policy. However, 
the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance policy, so I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional cover options which Mr L 
paid for any differently. 
Mr Ls terrorist cancellation cover is provided by Europ Assistance. This means a different 
business is responsible for his complaint about the refund of this premium. The seller of Mr 
Ls policy has told us its prepared to offer him a cash refund on this element of his policy on 
a pro-rata basis from the date the holiday was cancelled. Generally, I think this offer is fair 
and Im unlikely to ask Europ Assistance to do anything more. The offer is in line with how 
wed usually approach complaints of this type. 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman