DRN-4441323
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund a number of transactions 
he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr B was speaking with HSBC concerning an earlier payment hed attempted to make. He 
told HSBC that he wanted to revert the payment (no longer send it). His online banking had 
been blocked due to this payment and when it was reinstated, he asked about his available 
balance. He expected it to be a few thousand pounds but found there was only a few pounds 
left in his account.
Mr B told HSBC that he didnt recognise a large number of payments to two merchants and 
spoke at length with various members of HSBCs fraud team. During one call, HSBC werent 
satisfied about the verification of Mr Bs details and told him they could no longer deal with 
the problem until the identity matters were sorted out.
HSBC continued to look into the issue and wanted further information from Mr B. After failing 
to speak with Mr B by telephone, they wrote to him asking him to call. Mr B called HSBC and 
arranged for the case manager to call him back. A number of attempts to speak with Mr B 
where unsuccessful and due to a lack of response from Mr B, the claim for a refund was 
closed.
Mr B got back in touch with HSBC some six months later and made a complaint about the 
lack of update concerning his request for a refund. He also told HSBC he was going to his 
branch to remove the funds he was owed. 
HSBC looked into the complaint and told Mr B theyd closed his original claim because he 
hadnt responded to requests for further information. Mr B continued to request a refund of 
the disputed transactions, but HSBC declined to make a refund and sent him their final 
response to the matter. 
Mr B was left unhappy with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Both parties were asked to provide 
information about the complaint and Mr B said that:
Someone had taken his phone and card while he was sleeping  possibly a 
roommate.
The card wasnt in his possession at the time of the disputed transactions.
He found the card had been returned the day after the money had been taken.
His card and phone were kept together.
The personal identification number (PIN) for the card wasnt written down or known to 
anyone.
He hadnt allowed anyone else to use his card.
Mr B strongly believed the disputed transactions had taken place over one day (when 
his card was missing).
HSBC provided details of the transactions and copies of calls held with Mr B. In summary 
this showed that:
The disputed transactions had used various types of authorisations to carry them out 
including Apple Pay, contactless and Chip and PIN.
They were carried out over a five-day period (not one day).
One of the merchants was used before by Mr B.
Several large credits from gambling merchants were received prior to the disputed 
transactions which funded them.
Apple Pay was registered to Mr Bs phone.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator wrote a report, recommending that Mr Bs 
complaint not be upheld. It was commented that:
Various security information would be required to access Mr Bs phone and obtain 
the PIN for his card. There was no plausible explanation how someone could have 
obtained this information.
Several undisputed transactions were made to the same merchant.
HSBCs decision to close the investigation was reasonable due to a lack of further 
information received from Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators recommendations and continued to dispute that he 
was responsible for the transactions. He supplied further information in support of his 
complaint:
He didnt believe there was any evidence showing he made the payments himself.
His roommate could have easily taken his card for the contactless payments.
The transaction only occurred over one day.
Mr B also complained about the treatment he received whilst in the branch. 
Mr B said the person (roommate) admitted to taking his card.
Mr B provided a letter from his roommate admitting to the use of his card, obtaining 
the PIN and setting up Apple Pay on his phone to use his account without his 
permission.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr B liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr B authorised the 
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of Apple Pay 
or the online payment details conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr B. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr B responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mr Bs complaint essentially revolves around the use of his payment card and an Apple Pay 
facility to make transactions from his account that he didnt authorise. Hes supplied an 
admission from a roommate that they carried this out without his permission. 
HSBC dont believe it was anyone else but Mr B who carried these transactions out, so my 
decision here rests on the balance of the evidence and what I think most likely happened. I 
wasnt present at the time, so cant know what actually happened, but I can make a finding 
on the balance of probabilities based on an objective assessment of the available evidence.
Here, Mr B has provided a document he said comes from a roommate claiming to have 
taken his card and used it (with his PIN) to make a number of disputed transactions, 
including contactless payments and the use of Apple Pay. That document includes a copy of 
the driving licence, but no further details such as a phone number. The letter seems central 
to Mr Bs claim  thats because his assertion is that he wasnt responsible for these 
payments, and his roommate was. If his payment details were taken and used without his 
authority, then he wouldnt be liable for the transactions. So, Ive looked in detail how the 
various disputed payments were made and when they were made. 
The letter includes a description of how the card details were used and the PIN obtained (by 
observing Mr B using it on a number of occasions). It also describes how Apple Pay was set 
up on another device in order to use it to make a number of these payments. Whilst I 
understand that it would be plausible to take Mr Bs card and use it for contactless payments 
over one day/night, it becomes less plausible if this was to happen over a five-day period 
where there were other uses of the card by Mr B that he hasnt disputed.
I noted that Mr B said these payments took place over one day/night period, but the audit 
data from HSBC contradicts this and I have no reason to think the data was incorrect.
Additionally, setting up Apple Pay on another device requires a specific process to be 
completed through HSBC before it can be activated. Theres no evidence to show that apart 
from Mr Bs own phone, any other device was set up to use Apple Pay with Mr Bs account 
details. HSBCs records show that Apple Pay was only registered (a month or so before the 
disputed transactions) on Mr Bs phone, so is unlikely to have been added to any other 
phone after that. HSBC were asked to check for any other Apple Pay activations but couldnt 
find any. Given this evidence, I dont think its plausible for someone to add this payment feature (Apple Pay) to their device, despite what Mr Bs roommate admitted to. 
It's also apparent that Mr Bs usual use of the account was to make large numbers of 
transactions with various betting/gaming merchants, similar to the disputed transactions 
seen here. Mr B also received several payments into his account that enabled the disputed 
transactions to take place. 
Overall, and based on an objective assessment of the available evidence, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr B was responsible for these transactions either himself or allowing 
someone else to use his banking credentials. I think it was both fair and reasonable for 
HSBC to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman