DRN-1596610
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
with a mortgage in 1985.
What happened
In 1985 Mr C took out a mortgage with Barclays. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy covered Mr G against being unable to work due an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. If Mr C made a successful claim the policy would pay a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months. The policy was cancelled in 2004.
In 2019 Mr C complained to Barclays about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with Barclays 
response Mr C asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought the complaint should be upheld. They said that 
because Mr C held two jobs at the time he was sold PPI hed find it difficult to make an 
unemployment claim. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr C. So, it had to make sure it was right for him. I 
dont think it was.
Ive seen a copy of a policy certificate which I think is likely to be the same or similar to Mr 
Cs policy certificate.
The policy certificate gives a definition of unemployment or unemployed. This defines 
unemployment as being a period of unemployment in which, you are not in gainful 
employment.
Mr C has shown us evidence that in addition to his main, full-time employment he had a 
second, part-time position. He has shown us pay slips which show he earned a second 
income from this other occupation. 
Barclays has stated that given the nature of this second occupation it would not be classed 
as gainful employment.I disagree, I can see Mr C received remuneration for this role and that it took up quite a bit of 
his time outside of his full-time role. So, I am satisfied it could reasonably be described as 
gainful employment.
It follows that Mr C would likely have found it very difficult to make a successful 
unemployment claim on the policy if he had lost his main job. In effect, hed need to lose 
both jobs before he could make a claim.  So I think Barclays recommended Mr C buy a 
policy that was not right for him.
Barclays has said its sales staff would only have recommended the policy following a 
discussion with Mr C about his circumstances. And it has said it would only recommend     
Mr C buy a policy that offered suitable benefits. But from what Ive seen the policy wasnt 
suitable given Mr Cs circumstances.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr C, so he was entitled to rely on its professional 
advice. I dont think Mr C would have bought the policy if hed known it wasnt right for him. 
So Barclays needs to put things right.  
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr C in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI policy. 
So Barclays should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% simple interest before April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. This is fair as Mr C could not have claimed on the 
policy if it were not sold to him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C compensation as set 
out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman