DRN-2945947
The complaint
Ms B says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms B bought the policy in 2004, shortly after she took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint when he first reviewed it. Ms B had told him about a 
medical condition she suffers from, and the adjudicator thought she might not have been 
able to make a successful disability claim on the policy in connection with that condition. So 
he considered Barclaycards recommendation to buy the policy was unsuitable.
Barclaycard disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and wanted to know more about 
Ms Bs condition and the timing of her diagnosis. The adjudicator made more enquiries with 
Ms B and reviewed the complaint.
Having considered the additional information and evidence, the adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Ms B didnt agree with the adjudicators revised conclusions and the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms B says she doesnt remember being told about the PPI and that the policy was 
added to the account without her knowledge.
Ive noted everything Ms B has said. But despite what shes told me, on balance I 
think its likely that Barclaycard made Ms B aware that the PPI was optional and that 
she chose to take it. 
Ms B applied for her Barclaycard by post, and Barclaycard says the PPI was sold 
during a phone call shortly after that. Barclaycard no longer has a recording of the 
call, which isnt surprising given that the sale took place many years ago. 
But as the sale of the PPI took place after Ms B had applied for her credit card, and 
from what we know about Barclaycards phone sales at the time, I think she wouldve 
realised she had a choice about whether or not to buy it  although I can understand 
why Ms B may no longer remember this. Overall, on balance I think its likely that 
Barclaycard made Ms B aware of the PPI and gave her a choice about buying it.
Barclaycard accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Ms B, but it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. Ms B says she would have received some employer benefits similar to the 
kind the PPI provided, although she wasnt sure exactly how much she was entitled 
to. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Bs employer benefits, and 
would have been helpful if she couldnt work. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. Ms B has a medical condition which may not have been covered 
by the policy if shed had to make a claim in connection with it. But having considered 
what Ms B has said about her condition, I cant safely say that she had been 
diagnosed with it when the policy was sold. So I dont think better information about 
the exclusion in question wouldve stopped Ms B from buying the policy. The policy 
was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman