DRN-1512565
 
The complaint
Mr W and the Estate of Mrs W complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has broken 
their boiler and wont repair or replace it. This left them without heating and hot water over 
winter. 
Mr W and Mrs W took out a home emergency insurance with BG in November 2017 and 
sadly Mrs W passed away after referring their complaint to our service and Ill refer to Mr W 
in this decision.
What happened
The policy with BG provided for an annual service and emergency repairs to the central 
heating boiler. A BG engineer first serviced the boiler on November 2017. BGs records say 
it advised Mr W that the boiler was old and worn and should be replaced as parts were 
becoming difficult to source. The boiler wasnt replaced.
The policy was renewed and the boiler serviced each year. In November 2019 the boiler 
developed a fault. A BG engineer attended, a plastic panel on the front of the boiler was 
cracked and BG say its engineer advised it was brittle and fragile due to age. BG attempted 
to source the part but said it was obsolete. It said the manufacturer had stopped making this 
part in 2015 and that the boiler was around 20 years old.
Another engineer attended and applied adhesive tape to the broken plastic to hold it in 
place. The boiler still worked. Mr W was unhappy about this. He said BG had broken the 
boiler and should fix it and if parts werent available, it should replace it. He complained to 
BG saying he didnt want to leave the boiler switched on whilst unattended as he felt it was 
dangerous. 
BG didnt uphold the complaint. It said due to the age of the boiler the policy didnt cover 
replacing it if parts became unavailable. It said this had been explained to Mr W by the 
engineers on various occasions and it had recommended the boiler be replaced each year. 
BG said it had explained the parts issues in the policy renewal schedule issued on 9 October 
2019. This also said if the boiler couldnt be repaired BG may refund premiums paid since 
the last successful service or repair and BG offered to do this.
Mr W wasnt satisfied by this. He said as BG had broken the boiler it should replace it and 
that the boiler had been left in a dangerous condition. He said BG had taken the premiums 
under false pretences if the boiler was obsolete and couldnt be repaired. BG said the boiler 
wasnt dangerous and offered a further £300 to them as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr W had already referred the complaint to our service and also contacted Gas Safe to 
complain about BGs repair of the boiler with adhesive tape. Gas Safe inspected and its 
report said the boiler was safe and was left operational as it was found.Our investigator looked into Mr W complaint but didnt uphold it. He said BG terms and 
conditions were clear and that the boiler was too old to be covered for replacement if repair 
couldnt be made. He disagreed that BG had taken premiums on false pretences. He said 
the policy schedule clearly said parts were becoming difficult to obtain and if it wasnt 
possible to repair the boiler premiums may be refunded. He noted that the Gas Safe report 
hadnt found the boiler to be dangerous and it was operational. He said that BGs offer to 
refund the premiums and pay £300 as a gesture of goodwill was fair and reasonable.
Mr W disagreed saying the part that was broken wasnt old. He said he had been quoted 
£3,000 to replace the boiler and BG was only offering 10% of that and refunding the 
premiums was what it had to do anyway.
As Mr W doesnt agree it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr W and I appreciate it is a very difficult time for him 
following the recent death of his wife. But I need to consider whether BG has acted fairly and 
reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, the law and industry good 
practice in its dealings with Mr W and I think it has. 
The contract between Mr W and BG is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy and 
policy schedule. The policy provides for an annual service of the boiler and repair in the 
event of breakdown.  So I dont think it is reasonable to say BG took premiums on false 
pretences. And, it is clear that the policy never provided for the replacement of the boiler as 
it was more than seven years old when the policy was first taken out in 2017. 
BG say they advised Mr W of this at the time and it is also clear that BG advised Mr W that 
the boiler was old and parts were becoming unavailable on more than one occasion.  It 
specifically drew attention to this on page three of the renewal letter of 9 October 2019:
Important Information  parts availability
Our records show that your boiler is 
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a 
while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler,some 
other parts are becoming difficult to source
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but welldo 
our best to keep it running for as long as possible
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a 
refund back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed 
your agreement  whichevers the most recent
If youd like to talk to us about replacing your boiler, please call us on 
 
I think it is clear from this section that if the boiler cant be fixed it isnt covered to be 
replaced. On the first page of the renewal letter there is the following section:
Important information about your cover and price
Take a look at page 3 to see a breakdown of your  renewal price and how its been worked out. You'll also find a summary of the key information relating to your 
product(s) in the enclosed Insurance Product Information Document(s).
Thank you for placing your trust in us. You should check you're still happy with the 
cover youre getting.
This section clearly refers to the key information on page 3 including the section on parts 
availability. It also asks Mr W to check that he was satisfied with the cover provided under 
the policy. 
Mr W made the point that the part wasnt broken before the engineers visit and wasnt old 
itself. Possibly so, however the part became unavailable in 2015, so must have been some 
years old and if it were a replacement part itself it does suggest the rest of the boiler was 
towards the end of its working life as well.
As BG have said plastic parts do become brittle and fragile with age especially those close 
to heat sources and are increasingly likely to fail when they need to be removed and 
replaced. This damaged part and adhesive tape repair didnt make the boiler either 
dangerous or inoperable as confirmed by the Gas Safe inspection, so I dont think there was 
any need for Mr W not to use the boiler. 
As the boiler was around 20 years old and still working I dont think it reasonable to ask BG 
to replace it because of a broken plastic panel. I think BGs offer to refund the premiums of 
£268.02 was more than it needed to do under the policy. And I think the additional offer of 
another £300 as a gesture of goodwill is  reasonable.
Refunding the premiums with an additional £300 gives Mr W the option of seeking 
alternative repair or replacement of the plastic panel or the boiler as whole.  As I think BG 
has treated Mr W fairly and reasonably I wont be asking it to do any more than this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman