DRN-3758465
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt respond to him in the 
timescales promised when hed queried the impact of Brexit on his pension, having received 
letters sent by Aviva to non UK residents. Aviva had also been unable to make changes to a 
trust deed pertaining to the pension and had told Mr J he needed to seek legal advice.  
What happened
Mr J lives abroad. He has a pension policy with Aviva. Mr J got in touch with Aviva in 2021 
after receiving generic letters from Aviva sent to non UK residents about the possible impact 
of Brexit on their pension policies. Mr J was particularly concerned that hed still be able to 
make a claim on the policy if he lived abroad. He was unhappy with Avivas responses and 
that Aviva hadnt got back to him within the timeframes promised. That led to Mr J making a 
complaint. Hed also raised some queries about a trust deed to which his policy was subject.    
Aviva issued a final response letter on 17 July 2021. It said Mr J was unhappy with the 
timescales for issuing documentation. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said Aviva 
currently had a ten working day service standard. Although it acknowledged Mr Js 
comments about the time taken to respond, it was part of the standard process. 
Mr J asked us to look into what had happened. On his complaint form he said he had two 
complaints. He thought Avivas final response letter referred to post Brexit issues in respect 
of his policy. The other matter concerned difficulties with changing the trust deed. He said 
each issue involved slow, incomplete and conflicting information from Aviva. He set out a 
timeline of his dealings with Aviva. He said Avivas final response letter hadnt included any 
details of his complaint and was dismissive in tone. 
We asked Aviva for its file and comments on the complaint. ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) 
responded to us on Avivas behalf. ReAssure provided copy correspondence and a call log 
with notes of Mr Js telephone calls with Aviva.   
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She upheld the complaint. She said: 
Aviva had confirmed its usual turnround time for responding to queries was ten 
working days. But that hadnt been quoted to Mr J and no expectation of that was set.
Aviva had confirmed, in some instances, thered be a callback or response to 
escalated queries within 48 hours. 
Mr J had been advised hed receive a response within 48 hours but that hadnt 
happened. 
Mr J had chased Aviva multiple times to get clarity about the information hed 
received via generic Brexit letters issued by Aviva. 
Aviva was unable to provide copies of the generic letters but had confirmed, contrary 
to what Mr J had said about what hed understood from the letters, a claim could be 
made on the policy although Mr J lives abroad. 
Aviva couldnt provide the call notes from Mr Js calls about Brexit but Aviva said the 
call handlers had a brief knowledge of the impact of Brexit and would be expected to 
refer queries for a specific response. 
It had been stressful and inconvenient for Mr J. 
The investigator said Aviva should pay Mr J £150 to acknowledge that the expectations set 
when advising Mr J as to when Aviva would respond with information on his queries hadnt 
been met. Hed been inconvenienced and had been caused further stress by having to 
chase Aviva for promised responses. About the trust deed, the investigator said the 
requirement for that to be done externally was reasonable.
Mr J accepted the investigators view. Aviva (or ReAssure on its behalf) didnt. It said it had 
reviewed the calls into and out of its contact centre for Mr J and further call notes were 
attached. ReAssure said, where a call back was requested within 48 hours, there was only 
one time when Mr J didnt get that, which had been on 18 October 2021.  
Where Mr J had been told thered be a ten day turnaround time, that involved issuing 
paperwork. Mr J may have been unhappy with that but, due to internal processes, 
documentation is usually issued within ten (working) days and Aviva was unable to change 
its procedures. 
The Brexit letters had been issued to Mr J direct from Aviva (rather than by ReAssure) and 
ReAssure didnt hold copies but had requested them. ReAssure said it assumed it was a 
general mailing following Brexit which restricted certain changes being made to policies by 
overseas residents. ReAssure said Mr J would always have been able to take his benefits. 
ReAssure had no record of any calls into its contact centre about Brexit and so was unable 
to provide any calls. ReAssure suggested the mailing gave customers a contact number 
which was staffed by Aviva employees. ReAssure was unable to obtain information from 
Avivas databases.  
With regard to the trust deed, Mr J had been informed that he needed signatures from the 
trustees if he wanted to make changes. Hed said, on 24 August 2021, that he was having 
issues with one of the trustees and so he was seeking legal advice. 
The investigator considered the points ReAssure had raised. She didnt think Mr Js 
complaint or the handling of the communications he was complaining about had been fully 
understood. The investigator set out a timeline with some key points. She noted that 
ReAssure hadnt been able to provide copies of the Brexit letters and had only just asked 
Aviva for copies, even though it was the content of the letters that had confused Mr J and 
prompted him to seek guidance about the impact on him. 
The investigator said there were at least two occasions where a callback (about Brexit 
information) had been promised but hadnt been provided. The call notes provided showed 
that when Mr J called on 21 June 2021, a callback on 23 June 2021 was agreed. Mr J had 
called on that date, but his call was about the trust deed. He didnt get the promised callback 
about Brexit. Hed chased that up on 30 June 2021 when hed called again. A callback was 
again promised within 48 hours which again hadnt happened. 
The investigator noted that Avivas final response letter dated 17 July 2021 appeared to refer 
only to the timescales for providing forms relating to the trust and didnt address the Brexit 
communications. The investigators view was that it wasnt unreasonable to expect a 
business to be able to provide information on two separate queries at the same time. The 
investigator asked, if a referral to an ombudsman was required, for call recordings and 
copies of the two letters issued about Brexit. 
As the investigator didnt get any response from Aviva/ReAssure in response to her further 
comments she told the parties that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. Mr J spoke to the investigator over the telephone. He also provided copies of the two letters 
hed received from Aviva. The first, dated 13 January 2021, is headed, Impacts to your 
policy as [an overseas] resident from 1 January 2021  please read. The second, headed 
BREXIT UPDATE, is undated but Mr J said hed received it on 19 June 2021. 
We shared those letters with ReAssure. It said, if Mr J had phoned the number on the letters, 
his call wouldve been put through to Aviva. ReAssure didnt have copies or details of the 
calls. ReAssure had dealt with the trust issues as this was part of the administration of the 
policy. ReAssure said it believed the complaint had been exasperated because Mr J had 
received correspondence from both ReAssure (on Aviva headed paper) and Aviva directly. 
The investigator responded saying that Mr J had complained to Aviva and the fact that 
ReAssure was dealing with the complaint shouldnt impact on that or the information that 
was to hand to enable an accurate response to the complaint. The investigator said she was 
confused as the information provided recorded calls about Brexit so it was unclear why 
ReAssure said it couldnt see those calls or comment on them. The investigator invited 
ReAssure to call her to discuss things further. But weve not heard further from ReAssure. 
So the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think theres been some confusion arising from the fact that Mr Js complaint is against 
Aviva but ReAssure has dealt with the referral to this service. It seems that ReAssure 
doesnt have direct access to all of Avivas records. But wed expect ReAssure, in dealing 
with the complaint on Avivas behalf, to obtain any relevant information from Aviva promptly 
in order to address the complaint properly. In this case that would include copies of the 
Brexit letters which prompted Mr Js enquires to Aviva. And, if available, recordings of Mr Js 
calls with Aviva. 
But Im not going to ask ReAssure to get further information from Aviva. Thats because I 
think I can fairly decide the complaint on the basis of what Ive seen. 
First, Mr J has provided copies of the two Brexit letters he received and weve shared those 
with ReAssure. Secondly, call logs have been provided and set out dates and brief details of 
Mr Js telephone calls with Aviva, including what follow ups were required. I dont think 
recordings of the calls (if available) are required and when the complaint isnt so much about 
the content of the calls but what further action and information was required to fully answer 
Mr Js queries and within what timescale that would be provided.   
 
Aviva says it only once failed to call Mr J back within the 48 hour window promised. A 
callback request was logged on 13 October 2021 but that call wasnt made as promised, 
hence Mr J chased it up on 18 October 2021. But I dont think that was, as Aviva suggests, 
an isolated incident. The investigator identified (with reference to the call log that had been 
provided) two other occasions when a promised callback within 48 hours hadnt happened - 
following Mr Js calls on 21 June 2021 and 30 June 2021.
I think the investigator is right. Avivas call log records Mr Js call on 21 June 2021. And that 
he needed a callback by 23 June 2021 (within 48 hours). It also shows a call from Mr J on 
that date (23 June 2021). But that was about a different issue  the trust deed and the 
removal of beneficiaries. Mr J called again on 30 June 2021 as he hadnt received the call back hed been promised on 21 June 2021. On 30 June 2021 he was again promised a 
callback within 48 hours which, again, didnt happen.
 
Theres a note to say that a call was attempted on 29 June 2021 and a voicemail left. I think 
that was probably a follow up to his call about the trust deed. When his call on 23 June 2021 
was escalated, Aviva agreed to expedite the forms so that Mr J would get them by 29 June 
2021. Its possible that Aviva tried to call Mr J on that date to check hed got the forms. Even 
if that wasnt the case and the attempted call on 29 June 2021 was the promised follow up to 
Mr Js call on 21 June 2021, that would still be a service failing when a callback had been 
promised by 23 June 2021.
So, in addition to the admitted failure to call Mr J back within 48 hours of the call on 13 
October 2021, there were two other times when that promise wasnt met. 
I note that some written information about the impact of Brexit was provided to Mr J. Ive 
seen a number of letters from Aviva (for example, Avivas letters dated 23 June 2021, 1 July 
2021 and 6 August 2021). Its possible that some of the information Mr J had requested over 
the telephone was provided to him in writing. But, even if that was the case, I still think the 
callbacks shouldve been made as promised and even if only to confirm that a letter had 
been sent. 
Ive looked at the two letters which sparked Mr Js concerns and prompted him to make 
enquiries of Aviva. I accept, in the period following the UKs exit from the European Union 
and with the transition period having ended on 31 December 2020, it wasnt entirely clear 
how things would work going forwards for non UK resident policyholders. Avivas letter of 13 
January 2021 set out that restrictions might apply when Mr J came to take his benefits from 
his policy. I can understand why Mr J wouldve found that worrying. 
Avivas further (undated) letter didnt allay Mr Js concerns and he contacted Aviva for further 
information. It seems Aviva didnt have to hand the two letters which Mr J was querying. I 
think Aviva couldve foreseen that its (generic) letters might give rise to queries and taken 
steps to ensure the letters were available to call handlers who, even if they werent able to 
provide detailed information, would at least have been aware of what information had been 
provided to policyholders and so had a better understanding of any queries.  
I dont think Avivas final response letter was adequate. It was very brief and simply referred 
to a ten working day standard for processing requests. Its unclear if the letter was 
addressing Mr Js concerns about the Brexit letters or the requirements in connection with 
the trust deed and the time required to issue documentation. There wasnt any attempt to 
address issues such as Mr J not getting callbacks within the 48 hour window Aviva had 
promised. 
About the time taken for paperwork to be issued, although I can understand why Mr J might 
consider ten working days excessive, I dont think its so long as to be unreasonable. And I 
note, when Mr J, during his telephone call with Aviva on 23 June 2021, said that the matter 
was causing stress, Aviva did arrange for the forms to be sent out sooner.   
Im not upholding any complaint about the trust deed. Ive seen that Mr J confirmed to the 
investigator that the matter was resolved, his solicitor having drafted a new trust deed. 
Where, as here, a policy is subject to a deed of trust, and changes are to be made, legal 
input will often be required.
All in all I agree with the investigation outcome that there were failings on Avivas part. I dont 
see that Mr J was caused any financial loss but he did suffer distress and inconvenience. I think the sum recommended by the investigator, £150, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr J £150 as as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered in consequence of the service 
failings Ive referred to above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman