DRN-4245352
The complaint
Mr E has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him the money 
he lost at a result of a scam.
Mr E is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr E 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr E saw an advertisement for Trade Time (X) while on a social media 
platform. It showed X to be a trading platform specialising in cryptocurrency.
Mr E completed his contact information in a data capture form and was contacted by X who 
explained the investment and gained Mr Es trust by telling him X was regulated and based 
in London.
Mr E has told us that at first his investments with E showed a profit but when he requested a 
withdrawal his request was denied and his account balance with X reduced to zero and he 
realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr E made the following payments in relation to the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
30 May 2019 Trade Time £3,964.70 (plus £109.02 fee) Debit Card
5 June 2019 Trade Time £2,768.70 (plus £76.13 fee) Debit Card
5 June 2019 Trade Time £1,977.64 (plus £54.38 fee) Debit Card
7 June 2019 Trade Time £2,131.47 (plus £58.61 fee) Debit Card
7 June 2019 Trade Time £3,947.17 (plus £108.54 fee) Debit Card
7 June 2019 Trade Time £3,947.17 (plus £108.54 fee) Debit Card
Mr E has not been able to recover any of the payments he sent in relation to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr E 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr E has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mr E and HSBC sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC
should refund the money Mr E lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr E made
Mr E made payments into the scam via his debit card. When payments are made by debit 
card the only option available to HSBC to recover the payments is to request a chargeback.
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr E made in relation to this 
scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr E made his complaint to HSBC about the scam outside of the time limits allowed to make 
a chargeback. I am therefore satisfied HSBC was unable to recover the payments Mr E sent.
Should HSBC have prevented the payments Mr E made?
Mr E has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his HSBC account albeit on 
the scammers instruction, so the starting point here is that Mr E is responsible. However, 
banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have stepped in when Mr E was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
Mr E was making payments to a new payee, X. But at the time X did not have any warnings 
published about it on the regulators website, so I dont think the payees name itself would 
have triggered HSBCs fraud prevention systems.
On occasion Mr E also made multiple payments on the same day to X totalling a significant 
value. However, in Mr Es case I dont think HSBCs fraud prevention systems would have 
been triggered by these payments as being unusual for him. I say this because the 
payments were not unusual compared with the way Mr E usually operated his account. In 
the time leading up to the p.0ayments Mr E had sent several large payments to other new 
payees and often made multiple payments in the same day to high-risk payees such as 
gambling websites.
Considering the way Mr E usually operated his account I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the payments Mr E made to X did not trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems. So, I dont 
think HSBC missed an opportunity to prevent the scam from taking place and it is not 
responsible for Mr Es loss. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 Terry Woodham
Ombudsman