DRN-2645138
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the sale of a mobile phone insurance policy by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd. 
What happened
Mr C took out mobile insurance through Carphone Warehouse in October 2014 with a new 
mobile phone. The policy ended after its five-year term. Following that Mr C complained 
about the sale of the policy. He said he felt pressured into taking it out and had never 
needed the insurance. 
Our investigator accepted there might have been failings in the way the policy was sold to 
Mr C but didnt think hed lost out as a result; she thought he had a need for it and that was 
supported by him contacting Carphone Warehouse about a possible claim in 2018. She 
didnt think he was unfairly pressured into taking it out. She also noted Carphone Warehouse 
had agreed to refund the last four premiums Mr C paid for the policy as a gesture of goodwill 
(which totalled around £60).
Mr C didnt agree. He said he suffered from an anxiety disorder which is why he hadnt been 
able to ring Carphone Warehouse to cancel the policy at an earlier date. And he disputed 
hed contacted it about a claim. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy theyre selling. And for an advised sale (which I understand this 
was) they need to take reasonable steps to ensure the insurance is suitable for their 
customer. 
This would include establishing if they had a need for it and whether they had cover 
elsewhere that could provide the same benefits. And, as I think Mr C is aware, a Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation found there were failings in how Carphone 
Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. Ive kept the findings of that report in 
mind when considering this complaint. 
Was the policy suitable for Mr C? 
One of the things the FCA found was that the sales consultants were not trained adequately 
to assess a customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. And they 
were trained in objection handling, which the FCA pointed out undermined the advised 
sales process.  
So I think its likely there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability 
of this policy for Mr C. But where thats the case I also need to consider whether (and how) 
hes been affected by that failing. If, for example, we thought there were flaws in a sales 
process but a consumer would still have bought a policy, they wont necessarily have lost out 
as a result of those failings. 
In this case I can see the policy provided cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and 
breakdown. And when he took the policy out Mr C had acquired a new mobile handset. So I 
think he had a potential need for the cover it provided. He hasnt suggested he had cover 
elsewhere which would have provided an equivalent benefit. On that basis I dont think it 
would have been unreasonable of Carphone Warehouse to conclude he did have a need for 
this policy. 
It doesnt look like Mr C was significantly affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover 
and while Mr C has raised some concerns about the cost, I havent seen anything to suggest 
it was unaffordable for him. So I dont think Carphone Warehouse would have done anything 
wrong in recommending he take this out. 
Carphone Warehouse should also have provided clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy. Im not clear whether it did that. But given the policy was otherwise suitable 
for Mr C I dont think having more information about, for example, what it did and didnt cover 
would have affected his decision to take it out. 
Was Mr C aware he had a choice about taking out this policy? 
Mr C has provided a copy of his signed insurance certificate from the sale. This says taking 
out a CPW protection plan is not compulsory with the purchase of your phone. Mr C has 
ticked and signed underneath that. 
However, a signed insurance certificate doesnt in itself mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of a policy clear. And I appreciate the FCA report did reference cancellation calls in 
which customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. But Mr C hasnt 
suggested he was told he had to take the policy out. He recalls being asked if he wanted this 
and initially saying no. So I think he knew he had a choice about this. 
His argument is that he felt pressured into taking the policy. He says the adviser drew 
attention to some of the features of the insurance and told him he could cancel it within 14 
days if he didnt want it. Mr C says he didnt then cancel it because of his anxiety issues.   
However, Im mindful of the fact Mr C didnt mention his anxiety issues when he contacted 
Carphone Warehouse to make a complaint or in his initial complaint to us. In any case while 
I understand he might have had difficulties in calling Carphone Warehouse he could have 
cancelled the policy online or in writing. I also note that while Mr C told us he never used the 
insurance or any of its features theres a detailed note on Carphone Warehouses records of 
contact with him in 2018. That describes attempts to reset his device and say he was then 
advised to take it into store for a repair or replacement. 
And while Mr C recalls being told about the features of this policy, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable in itself of Carphone Warehouse to draw attention to the benefits this policy 
could provide. To conclude Carphone Warehouse had inappropriately pressured Mr C into 
taking out the insurance Id need to be satisfied the way it was presented to him meant that, 
although he knew it was optional, in reality he had little choice but to take it out. Looking at 
Mr Cs overall testimony, Im not persuaded thats what happened here.
My final decisionIve decided not to uphold this complaint. If Mr C wants to accept the offer The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd has made to refund the last four payments he made for this policy hell need 
to contact it direct about this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman