DRN-3181633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt make them aware the fixed 
interest rate product on their mortgage account was coming to an end in January 2020.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a repayment mortgage with Santander for a property in a TW postcode 
area. The mortgage offer was made in November 2016 with a fixed interest rate of 1.99% 
until 2 January 2020. 
As a result of the fixed rate ending, their mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate 
(SVR). Mr and Mrs B paid several monthly instalments on the higher rate which was a 
substantial increase in their monthly payments. Mrs B says she spotted the payments had 
changed in June 2020 when checking her bank statements and contacted Santander. During 
this call, she realised they hadnt been told about the rate or payment change because 
Santander held the wrong address for them. Mr and Mrs B remained on the SVR until they 
moved their mortgage to another lender in September 2020.
Mr and Mrs B complained their address had been changed without their consent and they 
didnt receive anything from Santander about their fixed rate ending. Santander responded 
to say the address had been changed to one in a KT postcode area in 2017 by phone calls 
from both Mr and Mrs B separately and a high level of security checks wouldve been 
followed at the time to do this. It retained the call recordings for six months and so no longer 
have these available. It sent annual mortgage statements to Mr and Mrs B (at the TW 
address and then the KT address until the 2019 annual statement was returned to it 
undelivered) and it was Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility to let it know these had stopped 
arriving. Santander said the mortgage reverting to the SVR was done correctly and fairly and 
Mr and Mrs B were made aware of it in 2016 when they took out the mortgage. It also 
pointed to the difference in the payment amount being collected which wouldve put them on 
notice of a change. Even so, it paid Mr and Mrs B £25 to cover the cost of registering their 
details with the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to our 
service. Theyd like the difference in the higher payment and their fixed rate payments 
returned from the time the fixed rate ended until they moved to another mortgage provider.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed and responded to say the address change must have been done fraudulently and 
Santanders security procedures are at fault for this. They feel its unfair to expect they 
shouldve noticed sooner they werent getting post from Santander as it only sent statements 
before then annually and so they hadnt noticed. The previous time they changed rates after 
the fixed period ended was only because they were prompted by Santander. They say at the 
time the payments increased, their thoughts were elsewhere due to the arrival of a new baby 
in February 2020. And the account the mortgage payments came out of was for bills and had 
a surplus which is why they didnt notice the significant increase straight away.
The complaint was referred to me for a decision. I contacted Santander to let it know I 
intended to uphold the complaint. This is because it shouldve written to Mr and Mrs B at the 
mortgage address (with the TW postcode) to give notice their payments were about to 
change, in accordance with MCOB 7.6.1R. This shouldve been done with enough time 
before the rate changed so that they had the opportunity to make prepare for this  possibly 
by applying for a new rate. I communicated with Santander about this but an agreement 
couldnt be reached.
I shared my provisional decision with Mr and Mrs B. Overall, they accept the provisional 
decision as one which they consider to be a sensible and logical approach the complaint. 
The only query they raise relates to the proposed time of three months used to calculate the 
redress. They say it took them so long to remortgage in 2020 as they had a baby in February 
which put their lives into disarray.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I dont agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and have 
decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
address change in 2017
Theres not much information available about the phone calls made in 2017 to change the 
address on the mortgage account. But I think its important to say I dont find it surprising or 
concerning that Santander no longer have the phone calls from the time.
Ive carefully considered the system notes from Santander and can see the address being 
changed and contact notes made to record this. I note Mr and Mrs B say they didnt make 
these changes, dont recognise the address it was changed to and had no reason to do this. 
I also appreciate the explanations recorded in the contact notes for the address changes in 
2017 dont fit with Mr and Mrs Bs personal circumstances. I accept this and, taking 
everything into account, find it unlikely they notified Santander of the 2017 address change.
Having said all of this, to find that Santander did something wrong when it change the 
address on the mortgage account in 2017, Id need to conclude its more likely that 
Santander failed to follow the security procedures it had in place during both of the calls it 
had in 2017 with the callers to amend Mr and Mrs Bs address. Based on the very limited 
information I have available, I couldnt safely come to this conclusion. So, whilst Im not 
concluding that Mr and Mrs B are the ones who made the address changes on their account, 
I also cant safely say Santander did anything wrong in 2017 when it made those changes.
Notice under MCOB 7.6.1R - correspondence with Mr and Mrs B
I wouldnt expect Santander to have proactively contacted Mr and Mrs B to offer them new 
rates. However, I do expect it to comply with MCOB sourcebook. The banks obligation 
under MCOB 7.6.1R specifically is to give their customers reasonable notice, in advance of 
any changes to the payments the customer is required to make resulting from an interest 
rate change. This is what was going to happen when the fixed rate period ended. I dont 
consider Santander fulfilled its obligation under MCOB 7.6.1R. Ill explain why below. I dont consider the mortgage offer itself was enough to comply with this obligation. MCOB 
7.6.1R relates to conduct during the life of the mortgage (at the start of the contract and after 
sale) rather than disclosure at the offer stage which is covered separately in MCOB. In any 
event, it wouldnt seem fair or reasonable that telling someone about something that will 
happen some years later constitutes the reasonable notice envisaged by MCOB 7.6.1R. 
Things can change. Santanders standard variable rate was  as the name suggests  
variable and MCOB 7.6.1R is there to account for this and give the consumer coming to an 
end of a particular interest rate an understanding of what will change for them, at that point 
rather than a best estimate from some years prior. 
Nor do I consider the annual mortgage statements in this situation were sufficient either. 
They werent sent to Mr and Mrs B at the mortgage address and I accept they werent 
received by them. I also consider Santander was on notice of this from at least the time the 
2019 annual statement was returned to it undelivered in April 2019.
Santander says it sent a letter on 3 January 2020 to satisfy its obligation under the direct 
debit guarantee. Setting aside where this notice was sent, this wasnt notice in advance 
complying with MCOB 7.6.1R as the fixed rate ended before the letter was sent.
Notice under MCOB 7.6.1R  retention mailings
Santander shouldve contacted Mr and Mrs B to let give them reasonable notice, in 
advance of any changes to the payments they were required to make resulting from an 
interest rate change under MCOB 7.6.1R.
Santander explains it usually sends retention mailings three months and one month before 
the fixed rate ends. However, if itd received a gone away or returned mail, it says its likely 
the retention letters wouldnt have been sent.
Santander has also provided various commentary to explain what may or may not have 
happened. I consider some of what has been said  particularly in relation to the address 
used to write to Mr and Mrs B  is contradictory. Overall, its unclear if the retention letters 
were sent or, if they were sent, whether this was to the most appropriate address - which I 
consider wouldve been the mortgage address in TW. I dont consider Santander has 
explained why another address would be used rather than the mortgage address or another 
method of contacting the consumers when the previous mail had been returned. I say this 
particularly given the importance of the next document due to be sent to Mr and Mrs B. So, 
having received returned mail in 2019 from the KT address, I think it fair and reasonable to 
have expected Santander to send notice under MCOB 7.6.1.R to Mr and Mrs B at their prior 
recorded address, the mortgage address in TW. Taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded notice was sent to Mr and Mrs B in compliance with MCOB 7.6.1R.
If Mr and Mrs B had received a notice telling them their payments were going to change due 
to the interest rate change, I consider it more likely they wouldve sought a new fixed rate 
product sooner than they did to ensure that the time spent on the SVR was minimised. I say 
this bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Bs actions when moving to their prior mortgage (which was 
at the end of a fixed rate deal) and as they also did this after realising the fixed rate had 
ended in June 2020.
Mr and Mrs Bs obligations
Much has been said by Santander about Mr and Mrs B not noticing the increase or missing 
statements sooner and failing to maintain their address. But I dont see things the same. I accept Mr and Mrs B were preoccupied by the arrival of a new baby and had set aside 
money to cover the bills in a separate account. Looking at the date they identified the rate 
change and when they got in touch with Santander, it seems likely to me they phoned 
Santander as soon as theyd spotted the significant increase in mortgage payments. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt have any cause for concern and payments were being made on time. 
So, I also accept they didnt realise theyd missed two annual statements from Santander, 
and I dont find anything suspicious in this. 
Santander say its the customers responsibility to maintain their address. I agree. However, 
having found it likely that it wasnt them who notified Santander of an address change in 
2017  for which Santander gave them £25 to register this with CIFAS - I dont think it fair to 
suggest theyve previously gone through this process or failed to keep Santander up to date 
with their correct address. If it hadnt ever changed as theyve said, there would be nothing 
to notify Santander about. Any statements before January 2017, related to a prior mortgage 
so they wouldnt have referred to this fixed rate period in any event.
the timeframe of three months
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs B consider this timeframe should be reduced when calculating 
the redress and how long they likely wouldve taken to move to a mortgage had they been 
given notice in 2019 under MCOB 7.6.1R. They say this because it only took them so long to 
remortgage in 2020 as they had a new baby and so its not a fair representation of what 
wouldve happened in 2019. 
Theres no definitive answer to how long it wouldve taken them to remortgage had they 
been given notice under MCOB 7.6.1R in 2019. This is why I considered the three months it 
did take them to remortgage when they were on notice to be a reasonable and fair 
assumption to use. Whilst I recognise the upheaval a new baby can cause, the baby had 
arrived several months before they were on notice of the change. Even so, given the 
significant increase in their monthly payments, I consider it reasonable to say its likely they 
wouldve made this a priority as soon as they were aware of this, notwithstanding the 
changes caused by their new arrival. So, I still consider the timeframe of a three months to 
be a fair and reasonable assumption to use. 
summary
For the reasons set out above, I consider reasonable notice of the change to the SVR 
shouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs B at the mortgage address (the TW address) before the 
expiry of the fixed period, in accordance with MCOB 7.6.1R. This wasnt done by Santander. 
If it had, I think it more likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve changed mortgage sooner. So, theres 
something Santander needs to do to put things right. I set out the redress for this below.  
Putting things right
It took three months from realising what had happened on 15 June 2020 to and raising it with 
Santander for Mr and Mrs B to move to another fixed rate product on 14 September 2020. 
Had Santander given Mr and Mrs B reasonable notice a month - being what I consider 
reasonable in this particular case and for the purposes of calculating redress - before the 
fixed rate expired, this wouldve been sent on 3 December 2019. I consider it reasonable to 
assume Mr and Mrs B wouldve moved to a new fixed rate in the same amount of time it later 
took them - three months - that is, by 2 March 2020. Also, I havent seen any evidence to 
say its likely the rate at that time wouldnt have reflected the rate they then moved onto. As such, I consider Santander should pay Mr and Mrs B redress for some of the time they 
were on the SVR. This would be for the period from and including 2 March 2020 up to and 
including 14 September 2020. 
This should be calculated by working out any overpayment by Mr and Mrs B as follows:
i. what Mr and Mrs B actually paid to Santander; less
ii. what Mr and Mrs B would have paid under their new fixed rate (the rate which 
started on 14 September 2020).
Interest is due on any overpayment based on an 8% simple interest rate from the dates Mr 
and Mrs B made any of overpayment to Santander until the date the redress is paid to them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc needs to do the things set 
out above to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman