DRN-2070433
The complaint
Miss M complains that esure Insurance Limited accepted liability and settled a claim against 
her insurance policy when it shouldnt have. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Miss M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here, Ill explain.
As Miss M is aware its not my role here to decide liability for the claim, but to make sure that 
esure has acted fairly when doing so. And I understand this is Miss Ms biggest concern, as 
she feels esure couldnt have possibly investigated her claim since she had confirmation it 
hadnt considered her email dated 17 January 2020 before it had confirmed liability with the 
third party on 20 January 2020.
Miss Ms policy like all others I have seen on the market, contains the following in the terms 
and conditions under the heading 3. Claims Procedure:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise, and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit. 
You and anyone covered by the policy must provide all the information, documentation and 
help we need to do this.
What this means is that esure can settle a claim under the policy however they choose, even 
if the decision is based on costs alone. However, I do expect esure to look into things and 
consider if it is likely to be able to defend a claim before settling it. 
Miss M first logged her complaint with esure on 15 January 2020. On 16 January esure 
advised Miss M that it is likely she would be held at fault for the incident. However, after 
discussing her circumstances with an agent from esure, Miss M sent an email on 17 January 
2020 outlining her testimony and providing further photographs. When Miss M contacted 
esure for an update on 24 and 31 of January she was informed the email hadnt been read, 
and on 31 January 2020, Miss M was informed esure had already admitted liability. So, I 
appreciate why Miss M feels that esure hasnt fairly considered her claim prior to admitting 
liability with the third party.
Therefore, its not in dispute that esure settled in this case before any detailed investigation 
was carried out. But the decision was based on its knowledge and experience in claims and 
the circumstances of this incidence. 
When Miss M told esure about the accident she informed it that she was turning right, as she 
was the party turning right, esure concluded she had the higher duty of care to ensure her 
path was clear before proceeding. This is in line with the highway code. I can also see that 
esure did try to contact the eye witness on 16 January and 17 January to obtain their version 
of events but was unsuccessful. And so, based on the evidence it had, the highway code 
and lack of CCTV footage to demonstrate the third party had in fact skipped a red light, 
esure felt it couldnt confidently defend liability. And inline with the terms and conditions, 
settled the claim. 
I understand that Miss W has said esure hadnt contacted the eye witness. But as I have 
mentioned above esure had provided evidence to suggest it had attempted to but was 
unsuccessful. However, even if esure had have spoken to the eye witness, Miss M had 
already confirmed to our Service in her complaint form, the eye witness hadnt been looking 
at the lights. Therefore, no evidence wouldve been presented to show the third party had 
driven through a red light.
I appreciate that Miss M is concerned that esure hadnt taken her testimony and further 
evidence (including pictures of the scene and a video of the filter lane system) into account 
before confirming liability. And while I accept that was the case, I am not persuaded that 
esure would have reached a different decision if it had considered this before confirming 
liability. I say this because, without CCTV footage to show the third party drove through a red 
light, and Miss M being the party turning right, I cant see how esure would confidently be 
able to defend in court due to lack of evidence. This may have been different if the witness 
Miss M had provided had been willing to co-operate, but that was beyond esures control. So, 
based on this I dont think the liability outcome on the claim is unfair.
 I would however like to point out to Miss M that esure settled the claim on a without 
prejudice basis  this means she would be free to take it to court if she chose to  but 
before doing this I would strongly suggest she take legal advice.
Esure has accepted it couldve done better here and that it shouldve kept Miss M updated. I 
think the £50 it awarded for this is in line with what Id expect and so I wont be asking it to 
anything more. I know Miss M will be disappointed with this outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman