DRN-4019423
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank hasnt dealt fairly 
with a claim she brought against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) after her gym membership stopped.
Background to this decision
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and my intended conclusions on whether I could deal with the dispute between Mrs S and 
Tesco Bank. Ive reproduced that provisional decision here and it is incorporated as part of 
my overall findings. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to 
make in response, and I will address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs S took out a three-year membership to a local gym. Under an incentive being 
run at the time, Mrs S was to pay one years membership and receive the other two years 
free. She paid £599 using her Tesco credit card.
Unfortunately, after a few months the gym became unavailable for her use  firstly due to the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, and later because the gym ceased trading. The liquidators 
indicated there were unlikely to be sufficient funds to pay creditors. So Mrs S turned to 
Tesco Bank to make her claim, noting that she would effectively miss out on around 28 
months of membership.
Tesco Bank accepted that Mrs S had a valid claim in breach of contract. The bank said it 
was only liable for Mrs Ss financial loss, which it assessed as £200 being the unused 
portion of what shed paid. Mrs S is unhappy with the banks proposal, as she maintains she 
had a three year membership.
Our investigator thought Tesco Bank had made a fair offer to settle Mrs Ss claim. But Mrs S 
didnt agree. Shes asked for this review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Tesco Bank has accepted that Mrs S has a claim in breach of contract and the relevant 
requirements of section 75 apply to the transaction. For the sake of completeness, I share 
this view. The key issue in dispute here isnt whether theres been a breach, or whether 
Tesco Bank has a liability to Mrs S as a result. Rather, its about the extent of that liability; in 
simple terms, the amount Tesco Bank should pay Mrs S to deal with that liability.
I understand Tesco Banks point that Mrs S was due to receive two years free membership. 
But I dont find it a particularly persuasive argument. I consider the bank has adopted the 
wrong approach in calculating suitable redress by excluding the latter two years on the basis 
they were free. They still formed part of the overall consideration that the gym brought to the 
contract with Mrs S.
Its accepted by all parties that the bargain between Mrs S and the gym was that she would 
pay £599, in return for which she would be able to use her membership for three years. 
These are undoubtedly core terms of the contract. Mrs S performed her part of the bargain 
by paying the amount in question. The gym has only partially performed its obligation. The 
contract was disrupted by Covid, but the main reason the contract hasnt been performed is 
because the gym ceased trading. It seems likely to me that this would be viewed as a 
fundamental breach of contract.
I accept Mrs Ss position that this means shes lost out on 28 months of gym membership 
she fully anticipated (and was entitled to expect) to receive in return for the money she paid. 
Theres a range of remedies Mrs S might be able to seek in relation to that loss. For 
example, if shes had to buy an alternative gym membership for that remaining period, that 
could form part of a damages claim against Tesco Bank. She could seek specific 
performance, though this is unlikely to be an appropriate remedy where the gym is not 
longer trading and the claim is being brought against a finance provider.
The most likely (and I think the most appropriate) remedy open to Mrs S is to recover money 
she paid where the consideration for payment of the money has failed. This is what shes 
seeking and is consistent with provisions in section 54 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA).
Having concluded that the consideration Mrs S was to receive in return for the money she 
paid was the full three years of membership, and that this consideration failed with 28 
months remaining, I consider it would me more appropriate for Tesco Bank to pay redress 
based on the full term of the contract, rather than just the first 12 months.
Im minded that the clear explanation of her claim Mrs S has provided from the outset, along 
with her rights under the CRA, ought to have suggested to Tesco Bank that it should have 
taken this stance. The way the bank approached the claim didnt demonstrate it gave 
sufficient weight to these aspects. That has both delayed Mrs S receiving the appropriate 
refund and caused her unnecessary inconvenience in her dealings with the bank, for which I 
intend to award interest and compensation along the lines set out below.
1. pay Mrs S £465 to reflect the loss of her gym membership for the remaining 28 months 
of the contract
2. pay interest on this amount at 8% simple annually from 28 May 2021 (being the date 
on which Tesco Bank issued its response to Mrs Ss claim) until the date it pays this 
settlement. If Tesco Bank deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
confirm to Mrs S that it has done so and provide her with the relevant tax deduction 
certificate
3. pay Mrs S £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused by 
the way in which Tesco Bank dealt with her claim
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S accepted my intended conclusions and had no further comments to make. Tesco 
Bank also responded, making the following points:
Mrs S's receipt confirms clearly she has paid for 1 YEAR and 2 free, if the wording 
had been different we would have taken a different approach
Only a judge/ court of law can decide whether Tesco Bank hasn't fulfilled it's 
obligation under the CRA and Section 75 so providing compensation for delays and 
inconvenience is excessive considering the 8% statutory award is being offered, to 
include the period of 2 years that held no valueOn balance, our Section 75 team, complaints team, and the FOS investigator all 
believed we had offered a fair remedy, so cannot agree insufficient weight was given 
to the claim
Finally I don't understand the Ombudsman's calculation for a refund as Mrs S paid 
£599, we have covered £200, if we provide £465 she is being refunded more than 
the contract price.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen any persuasive reason to reach any different findings or to 
change the proposed outcome. In light of Tesco Banks comments in response to my 
provisional decision, however, I think its appropriate to make the following observations.
When determining a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction, I have a statutory 
obligation to do so by reference to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of that 
complaint1. As set out in our rules2, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case, I need to take into account (among other things) relevant law and 
regulations. 
When dealing with a complaint about the way in which a card provider has responded to a 
claim made under section 75, one of the things we need to consider is how that card 
provider has addressed any potential liability it might have. In this case, Tesco Banks 
potential liability arises under the contract between Mrs S and the gym, into which are 
implied certain provisions under the CRA. It follows that there are circumstances in which we 
will need to consider the obligations and remedies available to a consumer under the CRA.
In my provisional decision I sought to highlight some basic contractual points. One of those 
was around the consideration brought to the contract by Mrs S and by her gym. I will 
reiterate those here, in the hope it will assist. Mrs S paid the gym £599. In return, the gym 
promised her three years of membership. The fact that Mrs S paid the same amount for 
three years membership as she would have for one year doesnt change what the gym was 
obliged to provide to her.
The gym hasnt provided Mrs S with three years membership (or even one year), as she 
was entitled to expect by paying the sum she paid. The remedy Tesco Bank proposed 
places no material value on the additional two years that Mrs S contracted to receive; a point 
Mrs S pointed out to the bank on more than one occasion.
All of this was known to Tesco Bank from the outset and ought to have caused it to have 
taken a different approach. The failure to do this  or to reconsider its position in light of 
Mrs Ss submissions  led to Mrs S being deprived of the use of money she should more 
properly have been refunded straight away. That is why I consider the fair and reasonable 
way to resolve matters involves more appropriate redress for the breach of contract, interest 
on that sum for the time Mrs S has been deprived of that redress, and compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience caused by the banks handling of her claim.
On the subject of that redress, I believe I made clear to Tesco Bank the basis on which Id 
specified it should be calculated. In case there is any residual confusion, the £465 proposed 
1 see Section 228(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended)
2 see Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook - DISP 3.6.4Ris not in addition to the £200 Tesco Bank suggested as settlement. I specified this amount 
because to my knowledge, the £200 is an amount Tesco Bank offered, rather than an 
amount it has actually paid. I trust this clarifies the banks understanding.
Tesco Banks point about the views of its internal departments and our investigator dont 
change this. The purpose of an ombudsmans review of a complaint is not to endorse a 
position previously taken. Rather, it is a full review process  available to both parties to a 
complaint  enabling matters to be looked at afresh. In some cases that process will result in 
a different outcome, which might identify shortcomings not previously noted. That is what 
has happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. To settle it, I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco 
Bank to take, within 28 days of receiving Mrs Ss acceptance of this decision, the steps set 
out below.
1. pay Mrs S £465 to reflect the loss of her gym membership for the remaining 28 months 
of the contract. Tesco Bank is entitled to deduct from this amount any sums it has 
already refunded to Mrs S in respect of her breach of contract claim
2. pay interest on the amount in 1. at 8% simple annually from 28 May 2021 (being the 
date on which Tesco Bank issued its response to Mrs Ss claim) until the date it pays 
this settlement. If Tesco Bank deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it 
should confirm to Mrs S that it has done so and provide her with the relevant tax 
deduction certificate
3. pay Mrs S £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused by 
the way in which Tesco Bank dealt with her claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman