DRN-3761627
The complaint
Mr J complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb), 
wrongly sold his shares. He wants compensation for the loss he says hes made and 
reimbursement for the cost of having to complete a tax return.
What happened
Mr J gave instructions in late 2020 to transfer shares, which I will refer to as F, from a third-
party provider into his IWeb account. IWeb told him F shares couldnt be transferred so he 
could either cancel the transfer or sell the shares and transfer the proceeds to his IWeb 
account. Mr J cancelled the transfer.
Mr J later queried what had happened, because his wife had been able to transfer her 
holding of F shares. IWeb said it had made a mistake and asked Mr J to complete a new 
transfer instruction form.
Instead of transferring F shares, IWeb gave instructions to the third-party provider to sell 
them. When Mr J realised what had happened he contacted IWeb. It said it would need to 
buy back the shares. It didnt do this immediately and Mr J was worried about the capital 
gains tax (CGT) implications of not correcting the sale quickly. To mitigate the tax liability, he 
bought back 4,837.35 shares to ensure the gains fell within his annual CGT exemption.
Around two months after the shares had been wrongly sold, IWeb bought back the balance 
of 6,318 shares.
Mr J said he had to buy back the shares at a higher price than theyd been sold, and he 
wants IWeb to pay him the difference of £403.83, plus interest. He said he would need to 
seek help in completing a tax return and wants IWeb to pay for the cost - £150.
IWeb said it was Mr Js decision to buy back some of the F shares, and it would not 
reimburse him for this loss, having arranged to buy back the remaining shares at a reduced 
cost to him. It said the £150 claimed by Mr J was hypothetical; that it would contact HMRC to 
explain what had happened; and that it would consider any further invoices for further 
charges Mr J incurs. It said it would pay him £750 for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused.
IWeb didnt respond to our request for information about this complaint, so our investigator 
came to a conclusion based on the evidence shed received from Mr J.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr J had incurred a loss, so didnt recommend that 
IWeb needed to pay him the £403.83 he claimed. She thought £750 was a fair amount to 
compensate Mr J for the worry hed been caused. She thought IWeb needed to provide 
evidence that it had written to HMRC, that it should cover Mr Js costs for submitting his tax 
return, on receipt of evidence, and that it should reimburse him for any CGT he has to pay.
Mr J didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. In the meantime, IWeb provided us 
with its business file. But it didnt respond to the conclusion reached by our investigator.
My provisional decision
Whilst I largely agreed with the investigators conclusions, IWeb provided its business file 
after those conclusions had been communicated. So I set out my findings in a provisional 
decision to give both parties a final opportunity to provide any new comments or evidence. 
I said:
Instructions to transfer to IWeb in November 2020
Mr J originally gave transfer instructions to IWeb in November 2020. But IWeb said 
Mr Js holding of F shares couldnt be transferred; it could only be sold, so it asked 
him what he wanted to do. He said he would cancel the instruction to transfer the 
shares.
But Mr Js wife had given similar instructions, and her transfer was successful. IWeb 
realised it had made a mistake. It wasnt possible to purchase additional F shares, 
but this didnt mean they couldnt be transferred into Mr Js account.
Mr J re-submitted his transfer request in June 2021. He hasnt complained about 
IWebs mistake with his earlier transfer request and, as it didnt result in a financial 
loss for Mr J, Im not required to comment on this further. Except to note that IWeb 
was now aware that a transfer of F shares could take place.
Holdings to be transferred
When Mr J gave his transfer instructions, his account with the third party included 
F shares and another holding. Mr J has confirmed that the other holding was 
successfully transferred, so we have not sought any further information from IWeb 
about that.
Sale of F shares
Instead of giving instructions to the third party to transfer Mr Js holding of F shares, 
IWeb gave instructions to sell them. It accepts it made a mistake. I need to be 
satisfied that the mistake has been corrected, that any financial loss incurred 
because of the mistake has been refunded, and that, if the mistake caused any 
inconvenience, that Mr J has been fairly compensated.
Buy back of the shares
When Mr J told IWeb it had made a mistake, it said the shares would need to be 
bought back. It hasnt provided us with a recording of the phone call during which this 
was discussed, but I dont think I need that to make a fair and reasonable decision. 
Its clear the shares needed to be bought back, at no cost to Mr J, in order to put him 
back in the position he would have been in if the shares hadnt been sold. He 
understood that either IWeb would arrange this, or he could buy back the shares and 
IWeb would reimburse him for any loss. It seems that it wasnt agreed by the end of 
the call who would carry out the buy back. Mr J was worried about the CGT 
implications of the sale. So he decided to buy back enough shares  4837.35  to 
ensure that any gains were kept within his annual exemption.
IWeb bought back the remaining shares (6,318) on 27 September 2021.The shares cost more to purchase than the sale proceeds received. But Im satisfied 
that IWeb paid the additional cost required.
I can understand why Mr J feels he has made a loss  the purchase price he paid for 
the shares he bought back was higher than the sale price, and he had to pay costs. 
But he had 11,155.35 F shares and no cash balance before the sale took place. And 
he had the same number of shares, and no cash balance, after the mistake was put 
right. And he didnt have to contribute any additional money to pay for the shares. 
The additional cash required to pay for the share buyback (because the sale 
proceeds werent enough), was provided by IWeb.
So I dont find that Mr J has made a loss.
CGT implications
The sale of F shares resulted in a capital gain which may be chargeable. IWeb 
offered to write to HMRC to explain it had made a mistake and hopefully that letter, 
and the corrective action to buy back the shares, will avoid a liability. IWeb should 
provide Mr J with a copy of its letter to HMRC.
Should Mr J still incur a CGT liability as a result of the sale, IWeb will need to 
reimburse this on evidence from Mr J.
Transfer to SIPP account
Mr J said the transfer was initially wrongly made to his SIPP account, rather than his 
General Investment Account (GIA) and that IWeb corrected this.
From the information Ive been provided with, it looks like Mr J had to complete two 
transfer requests as the first one wasnt accepted. The transfer form dated 22 June 
2021 instructed IWeb to transfer the shares to his SIPP account. But his covering 
letter said the transfer was to his GIA account and it referred to the previous 
attempted transfer (in November 2021), which was also to his GIA account. I think 
IWeb should reasonably have queried the instruction because of the account number 
discrepancy. In any event, the later transfer form which Mr J was asked to complete 
(dated 2 July 2021) did include the correct GIA number. So I think IWeb is 
responsible for wrongly transferring the shares to Mr Js SIPP account.
I understand IWeb corrected this error by transferring the shares to Mr Js GIA.
Mr J is concerned that the transfer to the SIPP may affect his annual contribution. 
I agree that IWeb should include an explanation of the transfer into and out of the 
SIPP account in its letter to HMRC.
Mr Js costs
Mr J says the chargeable gain which occurred because of the incorrect sale of 
F shares means he will need to complete a tax return. And he says he will need to 
employ a professional to assist him. Like our investigator, I think its fair that the cost 
incurred is reimbursed by IWeb. Mr J says he should be paid £150. But this may or 
may not be enough to cover his costs. I think it would be fairer if IWeb reimburses 
Mr J for the actual cost he incurs, on receipt of evidence from Mr J.
The gain on F sharesMr J says hes been deprived of the gain on F shares. But hell only benefit from a 
gain in share price if he sells the shares. The shares were sold by mistake, and that 
mistake has been corrected. Mr J now has the same holding of F shares (11,155.35) 
that he had before the transfer to IWeb took place. It wouldnt be fair for him to keep 
the shares and receive the gain on their sale.
Distress and inconvenience
IWeb has already offered to pay Mr J £750 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. I consider this to be fair and reasonable, taking into account the worry that 
IWebs error that resulted in the shares being sold caused Mr J.
IWeb didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr J largely agreed with my provisional decision. He said he would like me to set a timescale 
for IWeb to send the letter to HMRC, bearing in mind he needs to complete his tax return by 
the end of January 2023. And he wasnt sure how to go about reclaiming the accountants 
costs or whether it would be better to include an exact figure in the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision:
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr J and in my own words. There is 
a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond to every single 
point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive included reference to some matters which did not form part of Mr Js complaint to 
IWeb. Our inquisitorial role allows me to do this. And I think its important that I include 
the matters here to give a full picture of whats happened and to ensure my decision 
does not leave any loose ends.
As neither party has provided any new evidence in response to my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to depart from my overall earlier conclusions. But I want to make some 
things a little clearer.
Understandably, given the time IWeb took to respond to the mistake it made, and to provide 
us with its file, Mr J is anxious that it complies with this decision in a timely manner. I agree. 
IWeb offered to write to HMRC in its letter to Mr J dated 14 October 2021. I would hope that 
it would have done this by now, as it will be fully aware of the tax return deadline. But, 
assuming it hasnt already done so, I would expect it to send the letter to HMRC within four 
weeks of the date we tell it Mr J has accepted my final decision  assuming that he does 
accept it.Mr J cant afford to be out of pocket if he pays his accountants costs for completing his tax 
return. IWeb should write to Mr J to clearly set out where he needs to send the evidence of 
the costs hes incurred so that it can be reimbursed promptly.
IWeb should be aware that, if HMRC asks any questions about the sale of F shares and their 
repurchase, this will require additional work by the accountant which will result in further 
charges. To be clear, I expect IWeb to reimburse Mr J for the costs he incurs in completing 
his 2021/22 tax return and any follow-up costs caused because of the sale of F shares.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing should:
1. Write to HMRC to explain it sold F shares by mistake, and the corrective action that was 
taken. IWeb should send this letter within four weeks of us notifying it that Mr J has accepted 
this decision. IWeb should provide Mr J with a copy of its letter to HMRC.
2. Should Mr J still incur a CGT liability as a result of the sale, IWeb will need to reimburse 
this on receipt of evidence from Mr J.
3. Write to HMRC to explain the shares were wrongly transferred into Mr Js SIPP account, 
and the corrective action thats been taken. IWeb should send this letter within four weeks of 
us notifying it that Mr J has accepted this decision. IWeb should provide Mr J with a copy of 
its letter to HMRC.
4. Reimburse Mr J for the professional costs he incurs in completing his 2021/22 tax return, 
on receipt of evidence from Mr J, including any additional costs that may be incurred after 
the return has been submitted if HMRC raises any queries.
5. Pay Mr J £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as 
IWeb Share Dealing should pay compensation, and take the action, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman