DRN-3265478
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has refused to refund 
payments he thought he was making to a legitimate company, which he says turned out to 
be fraudulent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr W is disputing several payments he says he thought he was making to a 
company I will refer to as Company B in this decision.  He made these payments to 
Company B and other companies in February 2018 using his Halifax Mastercard credit card.  
In short, Mr W says Company B were fraudulent and stole his money.
Mr W asked Halifax to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint.
Halifax responded stating, in short, that Mr Ws payments did not benefit from the protection 
offered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Unhappy with Halifaxs position, Mr W referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought had a 
chargeback been raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through 
Mastercards chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mr Ws claim.  However, he argued 
that in his view, Mr W did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract, so 
he suggested Halifax refund Mr Ws money.
Mr W accepted the investigators findings, but Halifax did not.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by another investigator.  The second investigator did not 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Although he agreed with the first investigator that Mr W had no 
chargeback rights, he disagreed that he had any section 75 rights.  He thought that the 
disputed payments concerned broke the debtor-creditor-supplier chain.
Mr W did not accept the second investigators findings.  He said he made the disputed 
payments in accordance with Company Bs instructions.  Moreover, Company B gave him a 
receipt after each transaction stating they had been processed.  Mr W also argued that 
another bank raised a successful chargeback claim on his behalf.
As an agreement could not be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
Before doing so, I sent Mr W an email stating, amongst other things:
My provisional view is - I am not persuaded that [Company B] were operating as a scam.  I 
say this because I have not seen any credible evidence to support that they were.  The 
information you have provided so far, does not show you fell victim to a scam.  For this 
reason, I am currently not minded to uphold your complaint.  With this in mind, I would be 
grateful if you would provide any further evidence you think would support your assertion 
that [Company B] were operating a scam and that you fell victim to them.
Mr W responded providing information which he seeks to rely on to show Company B were 
fraudulent.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not satisfied that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons I set 
out below.
.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr W for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mr W using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Halifax.  These, therefore, must be regarded as authorised payments.  This is important 
because, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of Mr Ws bank 
account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.  But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.
So, the first question I need to consider is whether Company B were fraudsters.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as binary options is in fact a scam.  
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some platforms/merchants may have used sales and promotional methods 
that could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but 
this does not always amount to fraud.
When considering this in Mr Ws case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad.  
Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators.  And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent.
Upon checking both of these, it is my understanding that Company B have no adverse 
information reported about them.  Indeed, my own research has not resulted in any credible 
information to show Company B were fraudulent.  I must therefore take this into account  
particularly because there are no regulator warnings published.  As far as I can tell, 
Company B have not been identified as a fraudulent company  now or when the payments 
were made.  
Mr W has provided information he says supports his argument that Company B were 
fraudulent, which is what he is seeking to rely on to prove they misrepresented themselves.  
Having considered this information carefully, I am not persuaded that I could safely rely on it 
to conclude that Company B were fraudulent.
I acknowledge what Mr W has provided could be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps 
paint an overall picture of Company B  particularly the negative online reviews.  However, I 
am not persuaded that this is sufficient evidence of fraud.  I say this because I must place 
weight on credible evidence  for example, warnings about companies placed on IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal and/or those published on the FCA website.  In Mr Ws case, there are 
no such warnings about Company B.  
Therefore, I must follow the evidence before me and, essentially, I have seen no credible 
evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty that Company B were operating a 
scam.  So, taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that Company B were in 
fact a fraudulent company.
Finally, some banks may now choose not to allow transactions such as those Mr W made, 
because of the risks involved.  But the fact remains that this was not an illegal activity, and 
many customers now demand faster payments out of their account  which the regulations 
are designed to facilitate. 
As explained previously, Halifaxs duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is 
not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains.  Ultimately, Mr W 
paid a legitimate company.  To that end, I cannot safely conclude that Halifax acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about Mr Ws payments before they 
were let go.  It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
Chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
As I am not satisfied Company B were fraudulent, I cant agree with Mr Ws assertion that 
they misrepresented themselves to him on this basis.  I have also not seen evidence of any 
breach of contract claim that Mr W could rely on.  It follows that I do not find Mr W has raised 
a valid section 75 claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
I have also considered whether Halifax ought to have processed chargeback claims for Mr 
W.  Having done so, I am not satisfied it should have.  I say this because based on the 
evidence before me, I cannot see that Mr W provided Halifax with the necessary evidence 
required under Mastercards chargeback scheme rules.
I note Mr W says that another bank successfully raised a chargeback on his behalf.  
However, I am unable to comment on this, nor am I able to take it into account when 
considering this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman