DRN-3139391
The complaint
Mr C complains that One Insurance Limited havent paid him enough for his van when it was 
written off and he claimed on his van insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr C bought a van and insured it with One Insurance. Six weeks later he was driving along 
and hit a deer, so he claimed on his policy. One Insurance accepted the claim and said Mr 
Cs van was a total loss. Because of this One Insurance offered him £7,447 as the market 
value of his van. Mr C didnt think this was enough and complained, he said hed paid £9,594 
just six weeks before. 
One Insurance reviewed its offer and increased it to £8,328. Mr C still didnt think this was 
enough, he said the price of vans had been going up and a trade guide valued his van at 
over £10,000. One Insurance reviewed its position and said it had made an error and that 
actually the correct market value was £7,447, based on two trade guides. As Mr C didnt 
agree with One Insurance, he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
One Insurance had only used two trade guides, and when she checked four guides two of 
them supported Mr Cs van being worth more than One Insurance had offered. Mr C had 
also provided numerous adverts of vans of a similar age, specification and mileage to his 
and these all supported it being worth more. Because of this our Investigator didnt think One 
Insurance had acted fairly and recommended it increase its offer to £9,225. 
Mr C accepted our investigators recommendation, but One Insurance didnt. It said the 
guide our investigator relied upon was an outlier and should be discounted. Our investigator 
disagreed and said shed relied on two guides so didnt think it fair to discount them both. 
One Insurance didnt respond. 
As One Insurance didnt accept our investigators findings, the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say that if One Insurance deem his car a 
total loss, it will pay him the market value. It defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar 
make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and 
condition of your car, immediately before the loss or damage happened. In 
assessing the market value of your vehicle, we may refer to insurance 
industry recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for 
available vehicles being offered for sale to the general public.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices. 
When looking at four trade guides theyve given values of £7,419, £7,435, £9,225 and 
£10,045. One Insurances value is within the range of the two lower guides. However, there 
are also two higher guides. So, Ive therefore looked at the adverts Mr C provided of other 
similar vans for sale, as per the terms and conditions of his policy. 
When comparing other vans for sale which are of a similar make model and specification, 
they support the two higher guides. Im therefore inclined to find the two higher guides more 
persuasive, especially when taking into account Mr C bought his van six weeks earlier and 
paid £9,594 for it. Our investigator recommended the lower of these two guides as it meant 
Mr C wouldnt receive more than he paid for his van, which he accepted. This seems a fair 
and reasonable amount for One Insurance to pay Mr C. Therefore, One Insurance needs to 
pay Mr C £9,225 for the market value of his van. Also, as Mr C hadnt been paid this, One 
Insurance also needs to add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional amount it pays 
Mr C, to compensate him for not having the money. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr C £9,225 for the market value of his van. One Insurance Limited should also add 8% 
simple interest per annum to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date of claim 
to the date of settlement.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman