DRN-2764001
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when she applied for a 
Dorothy Perkins store card.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this service. She bought a PPI policy in 2001 in a meeting with a 
member of staff at Dorothy Perkins. It has been agreed that AXA France is responsible for 
looking at this complaint. So for ease, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI seller in this 
decision.
Mrs H said she wasnt aware it had been added to her store card account; she says she 
didnt need it as she was in a secure job with adequate cover and had savings. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mrs Hs store card application. I can see there was a separate 
section of the form headed Protecting Your Account. I can see Mrs H signed this section 
and entered her personal details and I noted she declined other offers on the form. So I 
think she or the staff member completed the form diligently by choosing the products she 
wanted. 
Mrs H signed under the statement: Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account 
Cover I think her signature means AXA France probably made it clear enough that Mrs 
H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs H was eligible to buy PPI. And the policy wasnt recommended, so AXA France 
didnt have to make sure it was right for Mrs H. But it had to make sure she received 
enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an 
informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could
have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
because she told us she had some savings and six months sick pay. So I think the PPI 
could have been useful if she wasnt able to work because it could pay out for longer than 
her sick pay and savings. 
AXA France should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I dont know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs H was affected 
by the main exclusions. So - even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont 
think it would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mrs H was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman