DRN-4191083
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
and the settlement of their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were on holiday when one of their children injured herself whilst skiing. They 
claimed on their travel insurance policy which included the cost of a medical evacuation 
(medi-vac) from the ski slope. This wasnt paid as part of the claim settlement. Mr and Mrs 
B were also unhappy with delays in handling the claim and poor service. For example, they 
said they were asked to provide information theyd already provided to Great Lakes. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She 
thought Great Lakes should settle the unpaid invoices for the medi-vac and medical 
expenses. She also thought Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for 
delays in settling the claim. 
Mr B clarified the costs to be paid and accepted the investigators findings on the basis that 
the settlement would be made promptly. He said that if it wasnt, theyd seek interest to 
reflect the delay in settling the claim. Great Lakes didnt respond initially but then accepted 
the investigators recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs B highlighted the delays in settling the claim and said Great Lakes should be 
held to account for their way of operating and delays by making a payment for their time 
spent on dealing with this. They said their acceptance of the view was based on the 
settlement being made promptly, which hadnt happened. They said they wanted payment of 
£898.75 of costs for the medi-vac and medical expenses, interest at the standard rate since 
the date of the claim, £75 compensation and the prompt settlement of the claim. 
Our investigator put this settlement to Great Lakes who said they accepted this, with the 
exception of the 8% simple interest. I asked our investigator to clarify to both parties that I 
was intending to award interest and £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs B said theyd accept 
this assuming it was 8% simple interest. Great Lakes didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Great Lakes has agreed to pay £898.75 for the cost of the medi-vac and outstanding 
medical expenses. Its also agreed to the investigators recommendation of paying £100 for 
the inconvenience caused by delays in claims handling. So, the only remaining point in 
dispute is whether interest is payable, or not. 
I think Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs B 8% simple interest per annum on the £898.75 
which is due to be paid as part of the claim settled. I can see Mr and Mrs B highlighted the 
costs relating to the medi-vac when they submitted their claim application document in 
March 2022. Mr B also reiterated that these costs were being claimed for in April 2022. So, I 
think these costs should have been settled as part of the original claim. The other smaller 
amount of medical expenses has also now been accepted as a valid part of the claim.
I think Mr and Mrs B have been out of pocket for these expenses since they claimed. 
Great Lakes failed to settle the claim as they should, despite having the relevant information 
to do so. They accepted our investigators findings on that point. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs B are concerned that there will be further delays in settling this 
amount. Great Lakes will have a specified period of time to make settlement, set out below. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date that the Financial Ombudsman Service confirms Mr and Mrs B 
has accepted my final decision Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying them: 
£898.75 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was made until 
the date of settlement 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by delays in handling the claim.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman