DRN-2977221
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded him £58,000 he 
lost to an investment scam. Its refunded half but has said he bears responsibility for the 
remaining loss.
  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr M sent £58,000 via online banking to an account controlled by fraudsters. He did 
so in three payments across three days.
He did so on the premise he was investing money with a legitimate investment 
company.
The company had in fact been cloned by the fraudsters. Theyd set up a website 
that appeared professional and genuine but was in fact fake.
The fraudsters had used details of a genuine investment firm to make the scam more 
convincing, including copying FCA registration numbers and using what appeared to 
have been genuine literature.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Halifax has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent. 
Halifax refunded Mr M 50% of his loss when he reported the scam. A complaint manager at 
Halifax said, I do believe that we should have done more to protect you. I found the fraud 
alerts on the payments werent catered to your individual situation, and these payments were 
significantly larger than your normal account activity.
Halifax declined to refund the remaining 50% as it felt Mr M hadnt done enough to check the 
company he was paying. It also said there had been a warning on the FCA website about 
the legitimate investment firm being cloned and its details being used in scams.
Halifax contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no funds remained in 
the recipient account. 
The bank said that these points meant Mr M was due a refund of half of his loss. The bank 
agreed to pay interest on that loss at 8% simple for the time Mr M didnt have the money. 
The refund offered to Mr M came after the bank initially declined his claim and the bank 
recognised that it hadnt handled the claim well. And so it also paid him £300 in 
compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld, with Mr Ms loss 
being refunded in full. 
Our investigator found Mr M had a reasonable basis for believing he was pursuing a 
legitimate investment. She noted the sophistication of the scam; how convincing the 
literature was; and the fact that a genuine authorised/regulated firm had been cloned. She 
also noted that it was Mr M that had initiated contact (as opposed to being cold called); that 
hed dealt with people that had appeared professional and knowledgeable; that he was an 
inexperienced investor; and that he had no knowledge of the FCA register prior to falling 
victim to the scam.
The investigator said Halifax ought to have fully reimbursed Mr M at the time he made his 
claim and so should refund the remaining 50% of his loss in order to settle the complaint. 
She said a further interest payment was due on the additional refund, endorsing the rate that 
Halifax had applied previously, because Mr M had been deprived of the funds and had been 
unable to invest for his pension as planned. 
She thought the £300 offered by the bank was fair compensation for its handling of the 
complaint and so made no further recommendation.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 8 July 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 5 August 2021. That deadline passed without contact from the bank. The 
investigator gave a further extension of one week, but we didnt hear from the bank until 
17 August 2021. That response asked for a copy of the literature Mr M had received. The 
investigator shared it and said the case would be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision on 23 August 2021. She noted that the bank had had the opportunity to obtain the 
evidence from Mr M at the time it was investigating the complaint. So she didnt think it 
would be fair to delay the progression of the case any further. 
Weve not heard anything further from the bank since and so the case has been escalated to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding it.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by 
a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Halifax to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Halifax failure to reply to the investigators opinion. Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified Halifax of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr M to have received a full 
refund at the time. 
Halifax should now compensate Mr M for his loss and pay him the £29,000 that hasnt been 
refunded. It should also pay the compensatory interest recommended by the investigator 
(8% simple per year). Whilst the money may have been held in savings, its clear Mr M had 
plans for the money that couldnt be realised. That interest should be calculated from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement, given the bank has acknowledged it didnt do enough 
to protect Mr M at the time he was making the payments and that they were unusual.   
Ive also noted that the bank doesnt appear to have acted quickly enough when the scam 
was reported. Mr M contacted the bank at 14:36 to report the scam. But the bank doesnt 
appear to have contacted the receiving bank until 10:24 the following day. The relevant rules 
state that attempts at recovery should be made immediately. There isnt further clarification 
on what immediately might mean. But to wait twenty hours would not appear to fairly and 
reasonably meet that definition. However, it seems very unlikely this made any difference to 
the likely recovery of Mr Ms funds, given hed sent the money to the scammers some six 
months earlier; the money was more likely than not already gone and so irrecoverable. So 
Im satisfied the banks delay likely had no material impact on the outcome.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Halifax to pay 
Mr M:
the remaining 50% of the money he lost -- £29,000  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date of loss to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman