DRN-3831785
The complaint
Miss P complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limited and her belief that a Hastings 
employee accessed her personal information unlawfully to make personal calls to her. Miss 
P also doesnt feel as though Hastings took the seriousness of her concerns seriously.
What happened
Miss P held a motor insurance policy that was administered by Hastings. So, Hastings had 
access to several pieces of Miss Ps personal information, including a valid contact number.
On 10 May 2022, Miss P says she received a call from an unknown number, but she 
believed this call had been made by an employee of Hastings. So, on 17 May, Miss P called 
Hastings to ask whether her account had been accessed internally on 10 May. Hastings 
confirmed Miss Ps account had been accessed but wouldnt provide a reason as to why, 
and by who. Miss P was unhappy with Hastings failure to provide her with this explanation 
and so, a complaint was raised about this.
Hastings then completed an internal investigation into Miss Ps concerns, to understand 
whether Miss Ps account had been accessed unlawfully and her personal information mis-
used. And having done so, Hastings didnt think theyd seen any evidence to show it had 
been. So, Hastings issued a final response to Miss Ps complaint explaining this and their 
belief that they didnt need to do anything further. Miss P remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied Hastings 
had taken Miss Ps concerns seriously and conducted a thorough investigation into these. 
And our investigator was satisfied that from this investigation, there wasnt evidence to show 
that any employee of Hastings accessed Miss Ps account maliciously or that her personal 
information had been shared unlawfully. So, our investigator didnt think Hastings needed to 
do anything more. They also explained to Miss P that she may wish to contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as they regulated data protection within the UK and 
so, are able to consider breach of data complaints.
Miss P didnt agree. She reiterated the impact the complaint had on her health and so, her 
ability to obtain a new job. Miss P also wanted confirmation about whether Hastings were 
required to provide a legitimate reason as to why her account was accessed. And she felt if 
Hastings werent, then their decision to tell her it had been accessed on 17 May was 
unreasonable and caused her unnecessary distress. Miss P maintained her belief that, as 
disciplinary action was taken, then it was clear her account had been accessed wrongfully. 
And she didnt think our investigator had taken into account Hastings lack of response to her 
correspondence, after their complaint response had been issued. As Miss P didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss P. I recognise the 
complaint centres around a significantly upsetting situation in Miss Ps personal life. And I 
dont doubt Miss Ps testimony that her health, both physical and mental, has been impacted 
by the situation.
I also recognise that its not in dispute that Miss Ps account with Hastings was accessed on 
the same day she received a call from an unknown number. Miss P believes this call came 
from a Hastings employee known to her and who was involved in the personal situation Ive 
referred to above. Due to the timing of the call, and the access of Miss Ps account, I can 
understand why Miss P would believe both are linked. And I can understand why Miss P 
would expect Hastings to confirm the reason for her account access, so she could rule out 
this potential link. When Hastings didnt provide this to her, I can understand why shed be 
unhappy about this.
But for me to say Hastings should compensate Miss P for the upset shes been caused; I 
first need to be satisfied that Hastings have done something wrong. So, Id need to see 
evidence that satisfies me an employee of Hastings did purposefully access her account on 
their internal system with the intention of accessing personal information that allowed them 
to call Miss P. Or, if I havent seen evidence of this, Id need to be satisfied that Hastings 
failed to take Miss Ps concerns seriously and conduct a thorough investigation that wouldve 
brought this evidence to light. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. It is not our services role to comment on, or direct 
a business to change, their business processes. So, Im not able to make a determination on 
when an employee should, or shouldnt, access a customers account as there are variety of 
commercial reasons why an employee may need to do so. And as these reasons are 
commercially sensitive, Im unable to rule upon whether Hastings acted unreasonably when 
not disclosing the reason the account was accessed following their internal investigation. 
Any investigation into this would fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And its also not our services role to punish a business for a 
suspected data breach, as this would fall under the remit of the ICO.
Instead, my role is limited to considering the service Hastings provided to Miss P in their role 
as the administrator of her insurance policy. And in this situation specifically, considering 
whether they took Miss Ps concerns seriously once theyd been raised. While I recognise 
Hastings belief that their investigation into these concerns falls under their complaint 
handling process, which our service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider, I disagree. I think 
the investigation Hastings conducted was an investigation into the conduct of their staff. 
While this investigation began due to Miss P raising her concerns, I dont believe this to be 
part of Hastings complaint handling process. I think Hastings complaint handling process 
covers the final response they issued, and their communication with Miss P after this was 
issued. So, I wont consider the communication Miss P and Hastings had after this response 
further. This includes any of Miss Ps concerns about Hastings failure to respond to her after 
their complaint response. But I have considered the investigation Hastings conducted.
Hastings have provided our service with a detailed explanation of the investigation they 
conducted, including a breakdown of the steps they took to satisfy themselves Miss Ps account hadnt been accessed with malicious intent. And having considered this breakdown, 
I think its reasonably clear that Hastings took Miss Ps concerns seriously. The investigation 
process included a detailed look into the accessing of Miss Ps policy, as well as interviews 
with the employees involved and analysis of the employees phones. And following this, 
Hastings concluded there was no evidence to show Miss Ps account had been accessed 
with malicious intent or that her personal information had been unlawfully used.
It's not my role to complete an independent review into the investigation Hastings completed. 
Nor would Hastings be obliged to provide me with copies of the interviews or other 
information they considered, as this information is personal to their employees and they 
have a duty to ensure this information is protected. This includes any reasoning for potential 
disciplinary action which Im aware Miss P feels was taken. So, Ive relied on the explanation 
of the findings Hastings reached as Im satisfied with the actions they took and the 
thoroughness of the investigation they conducted. 
Because of this, I dont think Im able to say there is any evidence to show Miss Ps account 
was accessed maliciously, or that any access of her account led to the calls she received. 
And because of this, I dont think I can say Hastings have acted unfairly and so, I dont think 
Hastings need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss P was hoping for. And I appreciate Miss P is likely to 
maintain her belief that the contact she received originated from personal information 
available in Hastings internal systems. But I wasnt there at the time Miss P received the 
calls. Nor was I present at the time Miss Ps account was accessed. So, Im unable to say for 
certain what did, or didnt happen. In these situations, I must make my decision based on the 
evidence I have available to me, based on the balance of probabilities. And considering all of 
the above, I havent seen evidence that persuades me Hastings have acted unfairly when 
concluding that they didnt access, or use, Miss Ps information unlawfully.
Miss P is still able to raise her concerns with the ICO should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman