DRN-3818882
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint against Phoenix Life Limited. The CMC says they were mis-sold an investment 
policy in 1993. It submits that the policy was not properly explained to them and it was 
unsuitable for their circumstances, based on their needs and lack of investment experience.   
What happened
The advice was given by a by a predecessor business, Hill Samuel Financial Services (for 
which Phoenix takes responsibility) in September 1993. Mr and Mrs P then took out a Higher 
Investment Plan (HIP), which was a unit linked endowment savings policy. It had an annual 
£500 premium, and a life assurance element. It set up to run until 2003. The policy was then 
surrendered at the end of the ten-year term for a capital loss. It returned £4,661.52.  
In October 2021, the CMC complained to Phoenix. It said Mr and Mrs Ps priority had been 
to save, not take out life cover  which was unnecessary in the circumstances. They hadnt 
any investment experience, and the charges for the policy were not properly explained.  
In November 2021, Phoenix refused to consider the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs P had 
contacted it (then as Abbey Life) in September 2003 about the maturity value. So, they 
shouldve known to raise a complaint within three years of that date, which meant the CMCs 
complaint fell outside of the time limits applying to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
The CMC then referred the complaint to this service. It said Mr and Mrs P always understood 
that their policy value could fluctuate, and they accepted that the small loss made upon the 
ten-year maturity was because of market performance during the term. It submitted that as 
the loss was 6.5%, it was not enough to trigger any concerns over the sale in 2003. Mr and 
Mrs P had only come to reflect upon the sale after speaking with the CMC in 2021.  
An investigator said that the complaint was one this service could consider, but Phoenix 
disagreed. It said it still believed the complaint was time-barred, and it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.  
An ombudsman issued a decision relating to the jurisdiction of this complaint in July 2022. 
He said he could see Mr P had made enquiries as to the calculation of the maturity figure in 
2003. But he did not believe this equated to Mr and Mrs P being dissatisfied with the initial 
advice theyd received at that time. He said this noting they knew they had taken out an 
investment which may return less capital than theyd invested at the start. He therefore 
believed the complaint was in time, as it had been raised within three years of awareness of 
the cause for complaint in 2021.  
Our investigator then issued her view on the merits of the complaint. She said though Mrs P 
was recorded as having adequate life cover, Mr P had a documented shortfall. 
She also noted how they had known there could be a loss on their investment, but Mr and 
Mrs P had been looking to save for the benefit of their family, in the knowledge they wanted 
to achieve greater returns than they could from savings accounts. She also observed that 
the charges for the policy were minimal and she did not believe they were unreasonable. 
The CMC said Mr and Mrs P did not accept the investigators view. It asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman, noting that two of Mr and Mrs Ps other complaints with 
Phoenix had been upheld. It also questioned whether being graded as 2 out of 4 for risk was 
medium, given Mr and Mrs P didnt have experience in investments with underlying equity 
exposure. Finally, it said family protection wasnt recorded as a priority for Mr and Mrs P. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully, I also believe that this complaint should not 
succeed. My reasons for this view, in summary, are:
I recognise the CMC has said that Phoenix has upheld other complaints in similar 
circumstances regarding savings policies. However, complaints arent determined by 
precedent, as no two matters are factually identical.
That other complaints may have been upheld by Phoenix in similar circumstances 
does not compel me to conclude that this complaint must also automatically succeed. 
Instead, I will look at the evidence before me to make findings which I believe to be a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this specific complaint. 
There is some limited information available from the time of the sale, including fact 
find information and policy product documentation.
When completing the fact find, discussions took place about the level of risk Mr and 
Mrs P were prepared to take with the HIP  as their capital would be invested in one 
of a number of different investment funds, some of which had exposure to shares 
and therefore, market volatility.
I do not agree that there is anything principally wrong with this, as there will be a 
point at which all investors undertake investment decisions for the first time. Nor do I 
believe that the recorded risk classification of 2 out of 4 meant that a medium level 
risk within the type of unit-linked policy (the managed fund) was rendered unsuitable. 
What I need to consider is whether the adviser took sufficient care to assess Mr and 
Mrs Ps requirements, their financial circumstances, investment objectives and that 
the adviser used the fact find information to make suitable recommendation(s).
In the circumstances  taking particular note of the limited information we have 
available - I believe the adviser likely did so.
The HIP was a unit-linked endowment savings policy, which contained life assurance 
to make it qualifying for taxation purposes upon maturity.
The policy documentation explained how the HIP would mature after ten years - 
though there were limited continuation options thereafter, such as where the policy 
could transfer to a whole of life investment policy, if required. 
There is no available evidence of the rationale for the advisers recommendations in 
the form of a suitability letter or otherwise. However, when completing the fact find, 
discussions took place about the level of risk Mr and Mrs P were prepared to take 
with their investment, because these are reflected in that document. 
Mr and Mrs P were recorded as not wanting to opt for a personal equity plan in order 
to achieve their recorded savings goal.
However, as the CMC has confirmed, they did want to take some risk with their 
savings, in order to achieve a greater return than they could from placing their capital 
in deposit-based accounts. 
To that end, the adviser provided an illustration for Mr and Mrs P, as well as 
providing them with policy information explaining how the investment operated. Further, the CMC has also confirmed how they knew and accepted that their 
investment could potentially suffer a loss upon the ten-year maturity. 
And, whilst Mr P queried how the value was arrived at, he did not seek to complain or 
pursue the matter further once Phoenix (the Abbey Life) had supplied a breakdown of 
the fund and units held at the time of the maturity valuation. 
The fund chosen was balanced; it was predominantly made up from equities, as well 
as UK-linked bonds, property and cash funds. More than half of the equities were 
UK-based  with only 5% being invested in emerging markets.  
As I have noted earlier, the life assurance inclusion was a qualifying requirement, to 
ensure any gains arising from the policy were exempt from income tax. Mr and Mrs P 
required a savings vehicle for their future life planning in respect of their child, and I 
do not believe the inclusion of a small proportion of life cover renders the policy 
unsuitable for that purpose.  
In fact, Mr P was recorded as having a shortfall in life cover. This policy met his 
recorded need to increased his life cover  it had a sum assured of £6,410 (unless 
the surrender value exceeded this amount). I believe this was an additional benefit 
for Mr P in circumstances where he required additional life assurance.
And in any event, the inclusion of life cover as a monthly mortality charge - applied by 
deduction of units to cover the life assurance cost - amounted to approximately £1.05 
per month. I do not believe this unreasonable in the circumstances where the policy 
provided valuable life cover and inclusion of the cover ensured the policy remained a 
qualifying one. The policy was also exempt from taxation on maturity. 
I havent otherwise seen evidence that the policy charges were excessive; they were 
explained to Mr and Mr P in the policy documentation issued at the time of the sale. 
Taking all of the information the round, I am satisfied that this policy was within the 
range of reasonable recommendations that the adviser could have proposed to Mr 
and Mrs P in 1993 in order to meet their medium-term savings objectives. 
I therefore consider on balance that Mr and Mrs P likely wanted to go ahead with the 
HIP, and that on the information Ive seen, the advice was suitable for their 
circumstances; noting that it was affordable based on their documented income and 
expenditure, and it was sufficient to meet their recorded investment objectives. I do 
not therefore think this complaint should succeed, or find that it was mis-sold.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 January 2023. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman