DRN-1800544
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave her a running account credit agreement.
What happened
This complaint is about a running account credit agreement Sunny provided to Ms T in 
March 2014. 
This loan account allowed Ms T to borrow (drawdown) up to an agreed initial credit limit of 
£150 either by borrowing up to the limit in one go or making multiple drawdowns up to the 
account limit. The account ran from March to October 2014. As far as I am aware, Ms T still 
hasnt paid this account.
Heres a chart showing more details:
loan/drawdown date of loan/drawdown minimum contractual monthly 
repayment at the point funds 
were deposited (£)
initial deposit 04/03/2014 57.22
1 27/03/2014 60.44
2 21/04/2014 49.03
3 25/04/2014 61.10
4 28/04/2014 57.46
5 27/05/2014 58.22
6 26/06/2014 104.56
7 27/06/2014 115.48
8 25/07/2014 117.30
9 06/09/2014 108.78
10 26/09/2014 109.5611 22/10/2014 170.44
 
When Ms T complained to Sunny it told her that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Ms T wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated and came to the overall view that Sunny didn't do 
anything wrong during the first 3 months or so when Ms T started making drawdowns on the 
account. 
But he felt that by the time she made the sixth drawdown on 26 June 2014 Sunny wouldve 
had reason to suspect that Ms T may have become reliant on this sort of borrowing and that 
the loan had become unsustainable. 
So Sunny shouldnt have given Ms T any further drawdowns from (and including) the sixth 
drawdown she made. Our adjudicator set out the steps he said Sunny should take to put 
things right for Ms T.
Sunny hasnt responded to our adjudicators view or to a letter we sent chasing up a 
response. 
Ms T is anxious about her complaint and frustrated that nothing further has been heard from 
Sunny in response to our adjudicators view.
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
A running credit loan worked in a similar way to a credit card  it had a credit limit which the 
borrower could borrow up to and each drawdown was due to be repaid within a set number 
of months  in this case, five months. There wasnt a limit on how long the account could run 
for or how many withdrawals could be made up to the credit limit as long as the borrower 
was making regular repayments in accordance with the credit agreement.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T could 
repay her borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
repayments from a lower level of income) 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been borrowing (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
When Sunny provided Ms T with her running credit loan the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it said should be expected from 
lenders when granting these types of loans. 
Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:
creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course of the credit 
agreement, offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing financial 
difficulty.
I agree with our adjudicator that there wasnt anything in the information Sunny had recorded 
for Ms T that shouldve made it realise that it was wrong to provide this account to her. 
On the basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings and what it knew 
about her financial situation at the time from the credit checks it did I think the checks were 
enough for Sunny to agree to provide this account. 
In his view letter, our adjudicator said that Sunny should not have agreed the sixth 
drawdown, which was taken on 26 June 2014, or any subsequent drawdowns.
And I think our adjudicator was right to uphold this complaint from the 26 June 2014 
drawdown. Up until this point, I dont think there was anything about the way Ms T was using 
the account that wouldve given Sunny any indication that she might be having money 
problems.
As Ms T hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to the 
drawdowns he didnt uphold, I dont think that I need to say more about these.
But I agree with our adjudicator that by the time Ms T made her drawdown on 26 June 2014, 
Sunny shouldve realised at that point that the borrowing wasnt any longer sustainably 
affordable for her. 
I say this because it looks like the first time Ms T borrowed on the account (and she did this 
straightaway as soon as the account was set up) it was for the full amount of the credit limit. 
And when Ms T made a payment to the loan she then made a drawdown the same day for 
the same amount shed just paid  taking her back up to her credit limit. This pattern of borrowing continued with Ms T making payments to the account and then 
taking further drawdowns (of amounts similar to those she had just repaid) on the same day 
or the next day.
In the first three months or so, Ms T had made repeated drawdowns taking her straight back 
up to her credit limit each time. 
I agree with our adjudicator that Sunny should have realised that this drawdown record 
suggested that Ms T was struggling to reduce her indebtedness. 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Ms T was borrowing further to cover the 
hole making repayments to the account was leaving in her finances each time and that this 
painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. 
I think thats borne out by what followed because it seems that when Sunny later increased 
Ms Ts credit limit she continued this pattern of repay and drawdown.
So Sunny shouldnt have given Ms T any further drawdowns from (and including) the 
drawdown on 26 June 2014 and Im upholding the complaint from this point onwards. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it can and then take the 
following steps. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns 
taken from (and including) 26 June 2014
 
B. Treat all payments Ms T has made towards the account on or after 26 June 2014 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
 
C. If at any point Ms T would have been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, Sunny will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made.
 
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Sunny can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance still remains after this then Sunny 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms T. If Sunny has previously 
written-off any principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only 
of principal already written-off.
 
E. Sunny should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ts credit 
file in relation to all borrowing on and after 26 June 2014.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. And if Sunny intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Ms T owes it must do this after 
tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Ms Ts complaint and Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps set out above to put things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman