DRN-3244566
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank plc incorrectly registered a default about his account 
with credit reference agencies and failed to compensate him fairly for what happened.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Sainsburys. He says that as a result of fraudulent 
transactions the account went into arrears. He raised a dispute with Sainsburys about 
these transactions and it agreed to put his account on hold until the matter was 
investigated.
In June 2020 Sainsburys registered a default about Mr Ms account with credit reference 
agencies. He contacted it about this in September and was told that the default shouldnt 
have been registered. Sainsburys said it would remove the default. Mr M said that the 
matter had not been resolved so he contacted our service. He said that because of the 
default, hed been unable to raise a deposit for a car he needed for his day to day 
activities.
Sainsburys investigated what Mr M told us. It issued a final response letter on 4 
November 2020. It acknowledged that the default had been applied in error. It said it 
would remove the default and Mr Ms credit file would be updated within 60 days. It agreed 
to pay him £125 by way of compensation for what had happened. Sainsburys also told Mr 
M it would consider evidence about what hed said about the car. It asked him to send that 
evidence to it.
Mr M sent Sainsburys a copy of an email where hed been declined for a credit card with 
another financial organisation (X). He said hed planned to use the credit on this credit 
card to pay the deposit required for the car. He said that the only reason hed been 
declined was because of the default recorded by Sainsburys.
Sainsburys didnt agree that he should be compensated further. So, the complaint was 
referred to our investigator. She looked into what had happened. Mr M provided copies of 
his credit file for the relevant period. Our investigator thought she couldnt be satisfied, on 
balance, that the reason why hed been declined was because of the error Sainsburys had 
made. She said there wasnt enough evidence to say that the default was the sole reason 
why Mr Ms application to X had been declined.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that X had told him our service could request information from it 
to explain in more detail how the default had impacted its decision. Our investigator said it 
wasnt our role to contact X as we were an impartial service. So, she didnt change her view.
Because Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
At the outset Id just explain that in this decision, Im only dealing with Mr Ms 
complaint about the impact the registration of the default had on his 
application for credit with X. Mr M has raised other complaints about how his 
credit card account was managed by Sainsburys. Those complaints need to 
be dealt with separately.
There is no dispute that Sainsburys recorded the default in error. It has 
acknowledged that. But, it hasnt accepted that because of its error Mr Ms 
application for a credit card with X was declined. As a result, he says he 
couldnt pay the deposit required to get his car.
This is important to Mr M. Hes told us about how his disabilities, 
especially during the coronavirus pandemic, impacted on his day to 
day activities. He says that was why he needed the car.
The issue I have to decide is whether Mr M couldnt proceed with getting 
the car because of the default Sainsburys had registered. He says he 
should be compensated because he wasnt able to get the car.
The sequence of events is as follows:
June 2020  default recorded.
16 September 2020 - application to X  rejected. Mr M says he 
intended to use this credit to pay a deposit on the car.
November 2020  Sainsburys asked for the default recorded at 
credit reference agencies to be removed.
10 December 2020  Mr M applies to F for a credit card. His 
application is accepted and the credit limit granted exceeds £1000.
December 2020  Mr M decides not to proceed with the car
It is the case that all lenders apply different criteria when assessing an 
application for credit. Information collected from credit reference agencies is 
an important part of that assessment but the weightings applied to each 
piece of information will vary from lender to lender.
Having thought about it, Im persuaded, the default Sainsburys had 
registered about Mr Ms account wouldve had an adverse impact on the 
credit assessment carried out by X. Although I cannot say it was the sole 
reason why his application was declined, Im satisfied, on balance, it would 
have been a significant factor in Xs credit assessment.
Ive also looked at the subsequent application Mr M made to another lender 
just a few months later  after the default had been removed. And, although 
as mentioned above different lenders apply different criteria, I have noted 
that the application to F was successful. I havent been provided with any 
information which suggests anything else about Mr Ms circumstances had 
changed in the period after hed been declined by X.
But, even though Ive said I think, on balance, the default had been a factor 
in Xs decision to decline Mr Ms application, that doesnt mean I think he was unable to get the car because of the default thatd been registered in 
error. Ill explain why.
Ive noted that Mr M didnt decide, in the end, to proceed with the car. He 
made that decision in December 2020 - even after his credit application to F 
was successful. He decided to make other arrangements regarding the car.
Theres no evidence to indicate that in September 2020 hed tried 
unsuccessfully to raise the deposit he needed for the car from other sources. 
And, theres no evidence he considered alternatives at that time - such as the 
action he ultimately took in December 2020, regarding his requirements for a 
car.
So, having considered everything here, Im not satisfied, on balance that Mr 
M was unable to proceed with getting the car in September 2020 because of 
the default thatd been registered. And, for that reason, Im not currently 
persuaded Sainsburys should be required to compensate him because he 
didnt get the car in September 2020.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but my provisional decision is that I think 
Sainsburys acted fairly and reasonably when it agreed to remove the default 
and pay him £125 by way of compensation for what happened. I dont intend 
to require it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank plc.
Sainsburys agreed with my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
Mr M told us he was very disappointed with the outcome. He said he thought our service 
was biased and hadnt acted fairly.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service seeks to resolve complaints fairly and impartially. Although Mr M has expressed 
his disappointment with the provisional decision, he hasnt told us why he thinks the 
provisional decision isnt fair. He also hasnt provided any further comments to explain why 
he thinks his complaint should be upheld.
So, having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my 
view about how this complaint should be resolved. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I do not require Sainsburys to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman