DRN-3872246
The complaint
Miss W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (AFS) reported adverse information on her credit file.
What happened
Miss W had a finance agreement with AFS. In August 2021 Miss W contacted AFS and 
advised them that the car had been stolen and that she required a settlement quote to 
provide to her insurance company.  AFS provided the settlement figure.
In September 2021 Miss W contacted AFS again and advised that her insurance claim had 
been rejected. She says that AFS advised her that she shouldnt make further monthly 
payments under the agreement as she no longer had the car.
Miss Ws insurance company settled the claim in February 2022. Prior to this, AFS had 
issued a default notice and had warned Miss W that it would terminate the agreement and 
record a default on her credit file.
Miss W complained to AFS. She didnt think it was fair that the default had been registered 
because she said shed been told not to make further payments.
In response, AFS said it hadnt advised Miss W not to make any further payments. It said it 
had advised Miss W that she couldnt continue with the agreement when there was no 
vehicle, and that it required the agreement to be settled in full. AFS said that because the 
agreement was in arrears it had to report the missed payments to the credit reference 
agencies. AFS said it had reported the default correctly and wouldnt be amending Miss Ws 
credit file.
Miss W was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said AFS hadnt made an error by 
recording a default because the agreement was in arrears. The investigator said she hadnt 
seen any evidence to suggest that Miss W had been told by AFS to stop making payments.
Miss W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W says she was advised by AFS that she shouldnt make any further monthly 
payments.
This service asked AFS to provide recordings of all calls with Miss W. Due to passage of 
time, the calls are no longer available. However, AFS provided call notes from its system, 
which include details of what was discussed.
Ive reviewed the call notes. These show that Miss W spoke to AFS in September 2021 and 
told them the car had been stolen. Miss W said during the call that she could continue to pay 
the monthly instalments. AFS advised Miss W that because the car had been stolen, Miss W 
wouldnt be permitted to continue with the agreement, and that she was required to settle it 
in full. Miss W said she couldnt afford to settle the agreement. AFS advised Miss W of her 
option to obtain finance elsewhere to clear the outstanding balance, but Miss W didnt want 
to do this.
In a further call dated October 2021, Miss W was advised that AFS would be issuing a 
default notice because the agreement hadnt been settled.
I can see that the default notice was issued on 14 January 2022 for arrears and no 
settlement in full. The default notice gave Miss W 20 days to settle the agreement in full, 
Miss W didnt settle the agreement within this time.
The insurance company settle the agreement on 18 February 2022.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant find any evidence to suggest that Miss W was advised to 
stop making repayments. The call notes show that Miss W was advised that she couldnt 
continue with the agreement and that she was required to settle the agreement in full. Im 
satisfied that AFS were clear with Miss W that if the agreement wasnt settled, a default 
would be issued.
I appreciate that it took longer than expected for the insurance company to settle the claim. 
However, I dont think AFS has made an error or acted unfairly. Theres no evidence that 
AFS told Miss W to stop making payments. And the consequences of not settling the 
agreement in full were made clear to Miss W.
AFS has an obligation to report missed payment to the credit reference agencies. So Im 
unable to say that the default was registered in error.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman