DRN-3112373
The complaint
 Mr N complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to hold him responsible for 
transactions he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
 In February 2018, Mr N was working abroad in China.
One evening, Mr N went out and says his wallet was stolen with his Nat West debit card in 
and unauthorised transactions totalling around £25,000 were made from his account.
Mr N says he authorised an ATM withdrawal on the same evening, and later on noticed his 
wallet  and all its contents, was missing.
The transactions relevant to the dispute are as follows:
Date Time Amount Method  Disputed?
17 February 
201814:24 £191.32 ATM withdrawal  No
17 February 
201816:19 £7,955.47 Chip and PIN  Yes
17 February 
201816:25 £6,926.50 Chip and PIN  Yes
17 February 
201816:31 £6,897.18 Declined  Yes
17 February 
201816:31 £6,897.18 Chip and PIN  Yes
17 February 
201816:41 £5,939.78 Declined  Yes
17 February 
201816:44 n/a ATM Balance 
Enquiry Yes 
17 February 
201816:45 £286.50 ATM withdrawal  Yes
17 February 
201816:49 £2,955.93 Chip and PIN  Yes
17 February 
201816:56 £2,876.82 Declined  Yes
Mr N told our service that he withdrew money from the ATM machine in a hotel.  Later on 
that evening, when he went to pay for something else, he noticed his wallet missing. 
Mr Ns wallet had his Nat West debit card, another UK debit card, a card issued from a 
different country and Mr Ns identification. Mr N reported the matter to the police and has 
supplied a copy of the police report to our service.
Nat West investigated Mr Ns fraud claim and declined it. They said they were holding Mr N 
responsible for the transactions as there wasnt a clear point of compromise for his PIN. And 
they found it unusual that there was a timeframe of around two hours from Mr Ns last 
genuine use of the card to the first disputed transaction. Nat West also recognised that no 
balance enquiry had been carried out prior to the first transaction  so they thought whoever 
carried out the transactions would have known the account held a high balance.
Mr N wasnt happy with Nat Wests answer so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold it. In summary he agreed there was no clear point of 
compromise and also found the two hours wait to use the card unusual. Our investigator 
thought Mr N should have noticed his wallet missing sooner than he did and found it unusual 
that the transactions stopped once the disputes had been reported to Nat West. So, he 
thought it more likely than not that it was either Mr N or someone hed given his card to who 
carried out the transactions.
Mr N remained unhappy and therefore the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer 
has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case Nat West) must prove the payment transaction was authenticated. And if it is 
deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
Nat West has provided evidence to show that Mr Ns genuine card was used for the disputed 
transactions. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The transactions were 
authenticated by the correct PIN being entered. So, Im satisfied from Nat Wests technical 
evidence that Mr Ns genuine card was physically present when the disputed transactions 
were made and that the withdrawals in question were authenticated by Mr Ns correct PIN 
being entered. 
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill 
need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. In order to uphold it, I must be persuaded that, on balance, it is more likely 
than not that Mr N didnt authorise the transactions in question.
Mr N has confirmed the ATM withdrawal was made and authorised by himself  and 
therefore he states this is the last time he entered his PIN. I appreciate why Nat West think 
the time lapsed between this transaction and the next transaction (which Mr N disputes) 
makes it unlikely that this was the point of compromise. But I disagree. Mr N doesnt know 
when his card went missing  he only noticed his wallet missing later on in the evening when 
he went to use it. So the time between the card being taken and the first transaction 
happening could have only been minutes. 
I think its reasonable to conclude that somebody could have watched Mr N at the ATM 
machine, enter his PIN and put the card back into his wallet. Mr N cant remember if he 
received a receipt from the ATM machine as the event took place in 2018 but its plausible to 
think he could have done. Receipts often show the available balance left in an account so if 
this was placed back in Mr Ns wallet, the fraudster would have access to the card, know the 
PIN (because theyd watched Mr N enter it) and know the available balance left in the account from the receipt. Therefore, I believe the point of compromise was Mr N at the ATM 
machine.
Ive then gone on to consider if Nat West did enough to protect Mr N  and I dont think they 
did. I havent seen any evidence to show that any of the transactions in question flagged with 
Nat Wests fraud prevention system. I say this because the transactions were for significant 
amounts of money within half an hour of each other. Having carefully considered Mr Ns 
statements, I dont think its in his nature to carry out these types of transactions and 
therefore at the very least I would have expected a text message or phone call to have been 
made to Mr N after the second disputed transaction. Either of these options would have 
resulted in Mr N needing to speak to somebody at Nat West and explain the transactions in 
more detail. I think this would have been appropriate given the amount of the transactions, 
the time they were taking place and the fact the activity was taking place in another country. 
Nat West has said as they believe Mr N authorised the payments, they dont think the 
transactions flagging would have made much difference. But I disagree. Blocking the 
payment until Mr N confirmed whether it was him or not would have protected the account. I 
appreciate if it was Mr N making the transactions himself, this would have been 
inconvenient. But I think there is enough evidence to suggest that something was amiss and 
Id expect Nat West to ensure their customer was protected.
Mr N also took the actions Id expect him to when he found out about the disputed 
transactions. He reported the matter to the police and Ive considered the police report 
carefully. I note from the police report that Mr N lost two other payment cards and 
identification when his wallet went missing. Mr N has confirmed the other cards he lost didnt 
hold the same PIN as his Nat West card, but he did report the lost cards to the other banks 
when he realised they went missing. One of the other banks confirmed steps were taken to 
prevent fraud so I think its more likely than not the fraudster attempted to use one of the 
other cards however wasnt successful as would have entered the wrong PIN. Mr N also 
confirmed he had to replace his identity card but hasnt retained the appointment letter from 
the immigration office due to the time which has passed.
I accept this is not a clear-cut case and Nat West have rightly raised several points that 
could suggest Mr N authorised the transactions himself. However, having considered Mr Ns 
circumstances, and the circumstances of this complaint alone, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not Mr N didnt authorise the five disputed transactions. And therefore, I think Nat 
West should reimburse Mr N for these amounts.
I dont consider Nat West are entitled to make any deductions to the refunds for contributory 
negligence. Contributory negligence carries a high bar and I dont think Mr N is at fault for 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think a compensation amount of £200 is appropriate due to the trouble and upset this 
whole situation has caused Mr N. I say this because, although I appreciate a large part of the 
distress Mr N suffered was caused by the fraudsters, I think Nat West should have been 
more proactive when recognising the unusual activity on Mr Ns account and should have 
done more to prevent the transactions from going through. And therefore significantly 
reduced the impact on Mr N. 
So I thought Nat West should reimburse Mr N for the five disputed transactions; add 8% 
simple interest per year on the amount they refund Mr N; and pay Mr N £200 compensation.
Mr N responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it.
Nat West responded and didnt agree. In summary, they said;
the activity on the account shows a large payment was credited into Mr Ns account 
before the fraud took place  which is unusual;they find it unlikely a fraudster would follow Mr N around for two hours before  and 
its likely Mr N would have noticed this;
they feel its unlikely the account balance would have been obtained from a receipt;
Nat West believes that Mr N authorised the payments himself or allowed somebody else on 
his behalf. They also dont think the 8% interest is reasonable. Nat West say this indicates 
an error was made in not refunding at the first point of contact  and they dont believe 
theyve made an error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ive explained 
further below.
I explained in my provisional decision this is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to 
say what happened for certain  Ill need to make my findings based on what I think to have 
most likely happened in the circumstances.
Ive carefully reconsidered the arguments from both parties  and in particular, the 
arguments from Nat West in response to my provisional decision. While Nat West have 
added further commentary, they havent provided any further evidence. Most of what 
Nat West has said Ive already considered.
Nat West have confirmed they found activity on Mr Ns account unusual before the disputed 
transaction took place. Part of my provisional findings focused on the responsibility of 
Nat West. I explained that I think Nat West should have done more to protect Mr N  and I 
think that point is strengthened now Nat West admit they found the activity on the account 
unusual before the disputed transactions. The transactions in dispute were for large amounts 
and in close proximity of each other. But I cant see Nat West did anything to try and prevent 
them going through. I appreciate Nat West think Mr N made the payments himself  but that 
doesnt exclude them from taking steps to protect their customers money. I would have 
expected these transactions to trigger something in Nat Wests fraud prevention system. And 
while that could have been inconvenient for Mr N if it was him  or somebody hed 
authorised to make the payments  it would have ensured Nat West knew if the payments 
were authorised or not, before allowing them to be processed. And therefore, remove any 
potential disputes.
Nat West have said they dont find it likely the balance of Mr Ns account was obtained from 
a receipt they said most ATMs do not produce a receipt unless requested. While I 
appreciate Nat Wests comments, I dont think they can be certain if this is the case with 
ATMs in China  where this transaction took place. I explained previously that as the 
transactions took place in 2018  Mr N doesnt recall if he requested a receipt or not. If Mr N 
did request a receipt himself, its more likely than not the available balance would have 
been listed on the receipt. 
I appreciate the time between the ATM withdrawal and the first disputed transaction is longer 
than the usual time wed often see with cases like this. But I dont consider this point alone 
makes me believe that it was more likely Mr N, or somebody he authorised, who made the 
transactions. Its impossible for me to distinguish the time between Mr Ns card being taken 
and when the first transaction was made. The time difference between these two could have 
been minutes  which makes the fraud entirely plausible.
Nat West have also referred to historic information which I dont find to be relevant. I say that because Im considering the circumstances of this complaint alone. I dont think Mr N would 
have gone to the efforts of reporting this fraud to the police, or the immigration office if he 
carried out the transactions himself. I appreciate Nat West said they couldnt consider the 
contents of the police report at the time due to the language on it, but thats not a reasonable 
excuse to hold Mr N responsible for the disputed transactions. I think its fair to assume 
businesses would have access to a translation service, and I strongly feel the police report is 
entirely relevant and should have been considered by Nat West at the time Mr N made the 
claim.
In summary, I think Nat West should have done more to protect their customers money. If 
Nat West prevented the transactions from being made until Mr N confirmed or rejected them, 
the circumstances of this complaint could have been avoided. And because of that, I 
consider the added 8% interest and compensation to be reasonable.
Putting things right
I consider Nat West should put Mr N back in the position he would have been in, had these 
transactions not been processed  so they should refund the total disputed amount to Mr N. I 
also consider 8% interest should be paid on this amount as I think this fairly reflects the loss 
of use of this money to Mr N.
I also consider £200 compensation should be paid to Mr N. Although I appreciate a large 
part of the distress Mr N suffered was caused by the fraudsters, I think Nat West should 
have been more proactive when recognising the unusual activity on Mr Ns account and 
should have done more to prevent the transactions from going through.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
To put things right, National Westminster Bank Plc should do the following:
Reimburse Mr N for the five disputed transactions - £7,955.47, £6,926.50, £6,897.18, 
£5,939.78 and £286.50.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr N. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to withhold income 
tax from the above-mentioned interest. NatWest should give Mr N a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr N asks for one.
Pay Mr N £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman