DRN-4426695
The complaint
Mr E has complained about how Marsh Finance Ltd handled the termination of his car 
finance agreement.
What happened
Mr E entered into a finance agreement with Marsh. However, in October 2021, he called it to 
explain that his driving licence had been revoked. Marsh made him aware of various options, 
including ending the agreement. However, it didnt explain that by not having a valid driving 
licence, the agreement had been breached. Accordingly, Mr E kept the car  keeping up his 
monthly repayments  but didnt use it.
It wasnt until January 2023 that Marsh told Mr E that it needed to recover the car, because 
of the breach. He complained that he should have been told before. Marsh agreed, and paid 
him £50 by way of apology. Mr E was unhappy with this, so brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He looked at what the outstanding 
balance would have been, had the agreement been terminated in October 2021, as it should 
have been. He did this by taking an average value, from three independent valuers, of what 
the car could have been sold for at auction at that time. He also took into account auction 
fees. This resulted in a calculation of Mr E owing £431 more on the outstanding sum, than 
he would have had the agreement been terminated at the appropriate time. So, he 
recommended that Marsh reduce the amount owing by this much. He also recommended 
that it pay Mr E a total of £200, for the trouble and upset caused.
Marsh disagreed. It said that Mr E had already accepted £50 compensation. Further, the car 
had been sold at auction for the best possible price, and the payments Mr E had been 
making reduced the outstanding balance even further.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommendations  and for the same 
reasons he gave. Its irrelevant that the repayments Mr E had been making contributed to 
lowering the outstanding balance. The agreement should have been terminated in October 
2021, so its appropriate to calculate whether the fact it wasnt, left Mr E out-of-pocket. Im 
satisfied it did, by £431. Im also satisfied that this has led to Mr E suffering trouble and 
upset, and I think a total of £200 compensation is fair to reflect this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Marsh should:
reduce the outstanding balance by £431; and
pay Mr E a total of £200 compensation (insofar as it hasnt already). This extra £150 
should be paid directly to Mr E, rather than being used to reduce his outstanding 
balance.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Marsh Finance Ltd to take the actions 
set up above, in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman