DRN-1198538
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
AXA is the insurer in this case, but it has accepted responsibility for the sale. So for clarity I 
will refer to it as the seller.
What happened
Mr B took out a store card in June 1999. In February 2000 Mr B was sold a PPI policy over 
the phone. The policy would have paid 15% of his outstanding balance from the point of 
claim for as long as he was off sick or out of work. 
Mr B says he didnt agree to the PPI being added. He said although the policy was sold over 
the phone it was not discussed with him. He also says he had another PPI policy at that time 
from another credit provider. He thinks the PPI policy was mis-sold to him. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr B didnt take out his policy when he took out his card. He took it out during a phone call 
about eight months later. AXA has provided evidence to show this is what happened. As the 
sale took place around eight months after Mr B received the card I think he would have 
known he had a choice about taking the policy. Mr B says he doesnt remember the 
PPI policy being discussed with him. But the call took place 20 years ago, so I wouldnt 
expect him to.  I dont think the policy could have been added without his consent. And as it 
more likely than not appeared on each of his statements I think if he hadnt agreed to it he 
would have queried it when he saw it. 
So, on balance, I think its likely Mr B agreed to take the PPI knowing he had a choice about 
it.
Its not clear whether AXA would have given Mr B a personalised recommendation about the 
policy. But I have treated this case as if AXA did do this, because it holds them to a higher 
standard. It means AXA would have needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was right for Mr B.Looking at Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for him. I 
say this because:
Mr B was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to self-employment or existing medical conditions;
Mr B says he was entitled to six months contractual sick pay from his employer. But 
the policy would have paid 15% each month of his outstanding balance at the point of 
claim until he was able to return to work. He could have claimed this alongside his 
sick pay and then for longer if needed. So it offered a useful additional benefit;
Mr B didnt have any other additional means by which to make his repayments if he 
wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was greater than other PPI policies for sale around the time. 
But the benefit was significantly higher and would have paid off his entire balance in 
a few months if he made a successful claim. 
 
Its possible AXA didnt give Mr B all the information he ideally should have received to make 
his decision. But I dont think more, or better, information would have changed his mind 
about buying it because the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive already described.
Mr B says he had another PPI policy with a different credit provider at the time he took out 
this policy with AXA. He says that this meant he was already covered and so it wasn't 
needed. But I can see that his other PPI policy was set up for a different financial product 
and not the store card that this PPI policy was designed to cover. So i don't think there was 
any duplication of cover or that it wouldn't have been useful for Mr B for the reasons that i 
have already given.
I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything AXA might have done wrong.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman