DRN-2413339
The complaint
Mr G, a sole trader, complains that Zenith Insurance Plc avoided his commercial motor 
insurance policy and declined to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr Gs van was damaged by another driver whilst it was parked and unattended and he 
made a claim for repairs. Zenith validated the claim and found that the van had undeclared 
modifications. It said Mr G was required by the policy terms and conditions to inform it of any 
change of risk, including modifications. As he hadnt done this, Zenith avoided the policy and 
declined the claim. Mr G said he had declared the modifications to his broker eight years 
earlier. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Zenith 
had sent renewal documents to Mr G in 2017 and 2018 which stated that the van didnt have 
any modifications. She thought Mr G was required by the Insurance Act 2015 to volunteer 
information he knew to the insurer. She thought it was for Mr G to check the accuracy of the 
renewal documents and tell Zenith of the modifications. Zenith said that if he had done this, it 
wouldnt have provided cover. So she thought Zenith was entitled to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim. And she thought it should refund Mr Gs premiums in full. 
Mr G replied that he wanted the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has also complained about the actions of his broker that he says led to the claim being 
declined. But I cant consider that here, as the broker is a separate business to Zenith. 
The relevant legislation for commercial motor insurance policies is The Insurance Act 2015. 
Under the Act, policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer when taking out a policy by volunteering information. This means they have to 
disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example  unless the insurer asks about it, the policyholder 
doesnt have to disclose something if it reduces the risk or if the insurer already knows (or 
should reasonably know) about it.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres 
anything they ought to disclose.
So, in Mr Gs case, I need to consider whether he gave a fair presentation to the insurer of 
everything he knew  or ought to have known  about the risks it wanted to insure. We 
usually think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to ask a clear question to find out what it 
wants to know. 
If we decide the policyholder didnt give a fair presentation, we need to decide what would 
have happened if they had given fair disclosure. If the insurer would have offered the policy 
on the same terms anyway theres no remedy available and it wont be whats described in 
The Act as a qualifying breach.
If the insurer would have done something different, it will be a qualifying breach. And The 
Insurance Act sets out that when a commercial customer fails to provide fair presentation, 
this is what should happen:
If it was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all 
claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate or reckless and the insurer wouldnt 
have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but 
it must return the premiums; (unless the non-disclosure was deliberate or 
reckless)
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other 
than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those 
terms; and
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims
Mr G said he told his broker in 2011 that his van had been converted into a camper van. But, 
due to the passage of time, this call isnt now available. And so I cant say what Mr G told his 
broker at the time. But this isnt relevant in any case as Mr G renewed his policy with Zenith 
in 2017 and again in 2018. So Mr G had a duty to disclose relevant material facts in 2017 
and 2018. He was sent a Statement of Fact which asked him to check the information given 
and tell Zenith of any inaccuracies. 
Mr G was asked in both renewals:
Has the vehicle been changed in any way from the original manufacturers specification?
The answer given was No. This was incorrect because the van had been modified into a 
camper van before Mr G bought it and Mr G had changed the seats in 2018. But Mr G didnt 
tell Zenith that the Statement was inaccurate.
Zenith has shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr G cover if he had answered the question 
correctly and disclosed the modifications. 
So I think the failure to disclose the modifications was a qualifying breach of the requirement, 
under The Insurance Act 2015, of the duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. And so I 
think Zenith was then entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. I havent seen that 
the breach was deliberate or reckless, so I think Zenith should refund Mr Gs premiums in 
full. I can see from its file that its already agreed to do this.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman