The complaint
Mr J and Mrs W say that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 2000.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs W had a mortgage with Cheltenham and Gloucester, now part of Lloyds. In 
2000 Mr J and Mrs W applied for a further advance, and at the same time applied for a 
PPI policy. The policy began in January 2000, and covered the payments towards the further 
advance if Mr J or Mrs W lost their job or were off work sick.
Mr J and Mrs W think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr J and Mrs W 
didn't agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr J and Mrs Ws case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I first considered whether Mr J and Mrs W would have understood they had a choice to buy 
the PPI. Mr J and Mrs W have told us that the PPI was added without their knowledge. They 
say they wouldn't have knowingly signed up for PPI. They've also said that it was not made 
clear when they took out the PPI that the policy was optional. So I've thought about what 
they've said about this alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Lloyds says Mr J and Mrs W had to complete a separate application to buy the PPI. I've 
seen a copy of this. Mr J and Mrs W needed to sign the application form - and they've also 
completed a separate direct debit instruction to make payments to the insurer. I note that 
Mr J and Mrs W already had a mortgage with Lloyds, but didn't have PPI. I further note that 
when the policy started the insurer wrote to Mr J and Mrs W to say they could cancel the 
policy if they weren't happy. Based on what I've seen, I think it's likely that Mr J and Mrs W 
knew they'd bought a PPI policy - even if they don't remember doing so now. And I'm not 
persuaded, based just on what they've said, that they didn't know the policy was optional or 
they didn't chose to buy it.
Lloyds says it advised Mr J and Mrs W to buy the policy - so it had to make sure it was right 
for them. Based on what I've seen I think it was. Mr J and Mrs W don't appear to have been 
DRN-1060372affected by any of main things the policy didn't cover - and based on what I've seen of their 
circumstances, I think they had a need for the cover. In particular, the policy would cover 
them if they were off work for more than 60 days, and then pay benefits for up to 12 months. 
Mr J told us that after six months, his employer would reduce his sick pay. Though Mrs W 
told us she'd get her full salary for a year, she told Lloyds she'd only get sick pay for between 
three to six months. Given the PPI would pay out alongside any other sick pay they had, I'm 
not persuaded this made the PPI unsuitable for her. This policy protected a mortgage 
secured on their home - their home was at risk if they couldn't meet the repayments. And I'm 
not satisfied that the savings Mr J and Mrs W had made this policy unsuitable - it would have 
meant they didn't need to use their savings to repay the further advance at what would have 
been a difficult time.
Lloyds also had to give Mr J and Mrs W the information they'd need to work out for 
themselves if they wanted the policy. It's possible the information Lloyds gave them wasn't 
as clear as it should have been. But Mr J and Mrs W appear to have wanted this sort of 
cover, and it looks as though the policy would have been useful to them if something had 
gone wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I don't think better information would have 
put them off buying the PPI.
I've considered Mr J and Mrs W's other comments. Mr J and Mrs W have mentioned life 
insurance and critical illness cover they had. But I think this is a very different type of cover 
to that offered by the PPI. Though Mr J and Mrs W think they had secure jobs, I think 
insurance is intended to protect against unexpected events. So these points don't make a 
difference to my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman