DRN-4404087
The complaint
Mr A complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) transferred his 
personal pension plan (PPP) to another provider despite him telling it not to. He wants the 
costs involved of £1,500 re-imbursed.
What happened
Mr A had a PPP with Standard Life from which he was taking benefits under income 
drawdown. Hed been liaising with a financial advisor about his arrangements. A transfer 
request was submitted to Standard Life on 4 November 2022 by Royal London using the 
Origo electronic transfer system. Mr A says he had second thoughts about this and called 
the financial adviser and Royal London. He says they said to call Standard Life. He did so on 
7 November 2022. 
Standard Life said the transfer hadnt been processed yet. Mr A asked for details about his 
plan, which were provided. He wanted the transfer to be put on hold whilst he considered 
whether he wanted to transfer elsewhere. Standard Life says it marked the transfer request 
as out of scope meaning it was cancelled the same day. It says that whilst Mr A was on the 
phone to it, his financial adviser also called querying whether the transfer had been made. It 
was advised it hadnt been processed yet.
On 9 November 2022 Standard Life received a new Origo transfer request from Royal 
London. This was processed promptly, and the transfer paid on 11 November 2022. Mr A 
received documentation about this and called Standard Life on 21 November 2022 to query 
this. It said it had received a new request from Royal London and a call from Mr As financial 
adviser confirming the transfer should go ahead. It said it would open a complaint to 
consider what had happened, but that Mr A would have 30 days to cancel the transfer if he 
wanted, which meant the funds would be returned to Standard Life. It emailed Royal London 
on 23 November 2022 confirming Mr A had advised he didnt want the transfer to proceed. 
Mr A called Standard Life again on 29 November 2022, having now received his policy 
documents from Royal London. He said hed already called Royal London that day and told 
them he wanted more time to consider his situation and it had told him to go back to the 
broker. He said he was concerned because hed called his financial adviser and told him he 
had needed more time and further advice to make a decision. He said the financial adviser 
had told him it would call Standard Life to stop the transfer before it was made on the 16th or 
something. 
On 17 January 2023 Standard Life sent a reminder to Royal London. It responded saying it 
hadnt received a written communication from Mr A within the 30-day timeframe for 
cancellation. So, the only option was for Mr A to now request the new plan be transferred 
back to Standard Life.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it hadnt acted on the transfer request it 
had initially received because hed asked it not to. But when a second request was received 
it had processed this as normal and it hadnt made any error. But it said if Mr A transferred 
the Royal London plan back to it, it would reverse the original transfer as though it hadnt 
happened to ensure there was no loss on the investment.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He said Standard Life had been told not to 
transfer his plan but had done so anyway incurring £1,500 in advice costs. Which he said the 
financial adviser wouldnt refund. He said Royal London had confirmed the process Standard 
Life needed to follow to reverse the transfer, but it hadnt followed it. Mr A said there would 
be charges to transfer out of Royal London, so he wasnt concerned whether his plan stayed 
with it or went back to Standard Life. Provided the £1,500 in fees were paid back into his 
Royal London fund, which he felt Standard Life should pay.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said he didnt think Standard Life had made an error. He said it had received a valid 
request after the first was cancelled. And the second request shouldnt have been made 
without Mr As permission. He said Standard Life hadnt been required to check back with Mr 
A once the second request was made. And it wouldnt be fair for the adviser fee to be repaid 
by it as this would mean Mr A would have received the advice to transfer to Royal London 
for free. And hed now confirmed he was happy to remain with Royal London. He said the 
offer from Standard Life to reverse the transfer was fair. 
Our investigator said Mr A had told Standard Life hed contacted Royal London during the 
30-day cancellation period, details of which would also have been in the policy documents 
hed confirmed hed received. He said if Mr A had contacted Royal London, it was 
reasonable to expect it would have explained the cancellation procedure to him. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed told all parties to stop the transfer on 7 November 2022. And 
he didnt know a second request had been made on 9 November 2022 but that hed called 
Standard Life a few days later whod told him his funds werent being moved. He said the 
issues were between Standard Life and Royal London and he wasnt party to them. Our 
investigator said no conversation took place with Standard Life after 7 November until 21 
November 2022. He said Mr A hadnt acted on the cancellation notice from Royal London 
and any costs or charges incurred werent Standard Lifes fault. 
As Mr A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Im only considering the actions of Standard Life here, not Royal London or the financial 
adviser. And I have only received evidence from Mr A and Standard Life. Because of this it 
isnt entirely clear what has happened. But from the evidence available I dont think Standard 
Life has made any error.
The Origo transfer system exchanges data electronically to reduce paperwork and speed up 
pension transfers. Transfers are initiated by the receiving pension arrangement (Royal 
London) requesting the transfer from the existing plan (Standard Life). Id expect Mr A to 
have signed a document confirming he wanted Royal London to request this transfer. 
Standard Life clearly received a second transfer request from Royal London on 9 November 
2022. I dont think it acted unfairly in processing this because the previous request had been 
cancelled as requested by Mr A.When he asked for the first request to be stopped, Mr A explained at some length his 
reasons for doing so. He said hed received advice to transfer from a broker but wasnt sure 
and wanted more information and time to think about it. Once it received the second request, 
even if Standard Life had checked back on its records (not that I think it needed to) it might 
have concluded that Mr As concerns had now been addressed and he was happy for a 
transfer to be made. After all the second request shouldnt have been submitted without his 
authority to do so. 
Why the second request was submitted if this was against Mr As wishes is a question for his 
financial adviser and Royal London to answer. Once Standard Life had completed the 
transfer the only way to reverse it was for Mr A to cool off or cancel the new policy and he 
had 30 days to do this once Royal London had received the transfer proceeds. So, if he 
called Royal London after it had received the transfer payment from Standard Life and 
expressed dissatisfaction about this, Id expect Royal London to point out he had the right to 
cancel within 30-days. This information would also be set out in the documents sent to him 
and typically would include a form to be signed and returned. 
If Mr A isnt satisfied with the services provided by his financial adviser, which certainly 
seems to be the case given the points he makes, he may be able to raise his concerns with 
it. But his arrangement over fees was a matter between him and the adviser and had nothing 
to do with Standard Life. And it isnt reasonable to expect Standard life to re-imburse these 
costs or any others as I dont think it has made any error or treated Mr A unfairly. 
As I dont think Standard Life made any error it hasnt treated Mr A unfairly and neednt do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman