DRN-3733524
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Mr D applied for a credit card with Vanquis in June 2018. Vanquis approved the application 
and gave Mr D a credit card with a limit of £1000. In November 2018 Vanquis increased the 
credit limit to £2000. In March 2019 the credit limit was increased to £3000, in July 2019 it 
was increased to £3500 and in November 2019 it was increased to £4000.
Mr D complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis didnt agree. Mr D remained 
unhappy and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Vanquis had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that there was nothing to suggest that the credit wasnt 
affordable.
Mr D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending  including the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont think Vanquis 
acted unfairly or lent to Mr D irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate steps to make 
sure Mr D could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mr Ds borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Vanquis has provided details of the checks it carried out when opening Mr Ds account. It 
says these checks show that it was reasonable to lend to Mr D.
I can see from the checks that Mr D stated that his income was £32,000. His credit file 
showed no county court judgments or recent defaults. The checks showed that Mr D had 
around £10,000 unsecured lending at the time.
Based on this, a credit limit of £1000 appeared affordable, and Mr D didnt have debt which 
was out of proportion to his income. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Vanquis completed 
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances, and showed that the credit card 
was affordable for Mr D.
In November 2018 Vanquis increased Mr Ds credit limit to £2000. Vanquis says it completed 
credit checks which showed no new county court judgments or defaults, and that Mr Ds 
unsecured lending was around £21,000. Vanquis looked at how Mr D had managed his 
credit card account and said it had been managed well with no missed payments.
Given the large increase in the credit limit, I think it would have been reasonable for Vanquis 
to have done further checks. I think it should have confirmed Mr Ds expenditure on essential 
thigs like housing, council tax and utilities.
I cant be sure what Vanquis would have seen if it had asked about this. However, Mr D has 
provided bank statements to this service from around the time of the credit increase. I think 
its reasonable to take account of this information as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed.
Ive reviewed bank statements for the two months leading up to the credit limit increase. Ive 
had a look at Mr Ds expenditure each month. I can see that Mr D was paying other creditors 
each month, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr D couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments on the increased credit limit because he appeared to have disposable income to 
meet all of his repayments. Therefore, had Vanquis carried out this check, I think its likely it 
wouldve discovered this too, and reached the conclusion that the increase was affordable. 
So I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly by increasing the credit limit.
In March 2019, the credit limit was increased to £3000. Further increases followed as Ive 
previously detailed. Vanquis looked at how Mr D managed the account during this time. 
There were no missed payments and the outstanding balance remained below the credit 
limit.
However, given the large increase in the credit limit, I think Vanquis shouldve done more 
checks before provided further credit. Ive reviewed the bank statement provided by Mr D for 
the period prior to the credit limit increases. These statements give an indication of the 
information Vanquis wouldve discovered if it had carried out further checks.
Having considered this information, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr D wasnt able 
to sustainably afford the repayments. Had Vanquis completed further checks, I think it 
wouldve discovered this too and reached the view that the lending was affordable for Mr D.
I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly when it lent to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman