DRN-3433119
The complaint
Mr T complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to terminate his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr T is covered by his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme 
is to provide an income in the event he cant work because of illness or injury. 
In April 2017 Mr T stopped working. He was later diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome 
(CFS). Aviva accepted the claim, and full benefit was paid initially. Once Mr T returned to 
work on a part-time basis, Aviva paid a proportionate benefit to recognise that Mr T was 
earning less than hed done previously.
In March 2020, Aviva arranged for Mr T to have an independent medical examination (IME) 
with a specialist. In May 2020, Aviva put together a return to work plan for Mr T to begin in 
June 2020. At the same time, it made the decision to terminate the claim as of 31 October 
2020. 
When Mr T advised Aviva that he wasnt able to follow its return to work plan, Aviva thought 
hed failed to comply with the scheme terms and conditions which required him to take 
reasonable steps to assist his recovery. Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Aviva had fairly 
terminated the claim. She recommended it reinstate the claim and pay the relevant 
proportionate benefit due, plus interest. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme definition of incapacity is:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her normal 
occupation, as a result of their illness or injury.
In terminating the claim, the onus is on Aviva to show that Mr T was able to return to work on 
a full-time basis as of 31 October 2020. 
Mr T was reviewed by an occupational health physician (Dr S) in February 2020. She 
recommended that Mr T continue to work a maximum of two days a week until mid-March (at 
that time he was working seven hours for one day, with the remaining hours spread across 
the week). She thought he could try and increase his hours again after that, but this would 
need to be tailored to his ability to cope. And that any increase should be made gradually 
with regular review and the flexibility for Mr T to step back if there was any doubt about his 
ability to manage or sustain the increase. Dr S pointed out that CFS is a highly variable 
condition and there was no objective way to measure fatigue levels or predict recovery.
An IME was carried out by Dr M (consultant in occupational medicine) in March 2020.  Dr M 
noted that Mr T continued to complain of fatigue and brain fog, but said he had made 
significant progress. He explained that Mr T had been working 14 hours a week, with one 
day a week in the office. Dr M said that Mr T appeared to have had a recent set back and 
had only managed to work seven hours that week. 
Dr M suggested that Mr T return to work for 14 hours a week after approximately three 
weeks, and then attempt to gently phase increasing his hours until he had returned to his full 
commitment. Dr M thought it would take Mr T in the region of four to five months to return to 
his full commitment. Dr M also pointed out that Mr T had been making considerable efforts to 
return to work. When asked if Mr T was motivated to follow return to work suggestions, Dr M 
said that if Mr Ts fatigue lessened and his stamina increased, then he would follow Dr Ms 
suggestions.
Dr M didnt say that he thought Mr T could work full-time, but thought that Mr T should 
attempt to increase his hours over the coming months. Consequently, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to expect Mr T to attempt to increase his hours. However, given the 
unpredictable nature of CFS, it seems to me that Mr Ts actual ability to increase his hours 
would depend on his symptoms at the time. Whilst Dr M thought it may take Mr T four to five 
months to return to work full-time, it seems he also recognised that this would depend on 
Mr Ts fatigue reducing. 
Mr T was reviewed by another consultant occupational health physician in June 2020. It was 
noted that Mr T had struggled to manage full days of working. They expected Mr T to 
continue having a relapsing and remitting course of CFS, and thought it unlikely that hed be 
able to return to full time hours by October, if ever. They said they thought Mr T would need 
adjustments, such as flexibility in his hours depending on his level of symptoms, in the long 
term. And that he was unlikely to be able to manage full days.
Mr T did attempt to increase his hours, but he wasnt able to do the hours suggested in 
Avivas return to work plan. I understand that Mr T had a virus for around seven weeks after 
the IME took place, and so this may have had an impact on his ability to increase his hours. 
Given that Mr T didnt return to work full-time by 31 October 2020, I think Aviva ought to 
have arranged for Mr T to be assessed again before taking the decision to terminate the 
claim. I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to make this decision so far in advance of the 
intended termination date, particularly given the variable nature of CFS.
Consequently, I agree with our investigator that Aviva didnt have sufficient evidence, as of 
31 October 2020, to support that Mr T could return to full-time work at that time. 
Aviva says it thinks Mr T failed to comply with the scheme terms and conditions. Ive 
therefore considered this.
The scheme says a member must take reasonable steps to assist their recovery and to help 
Aviva assist their recovery.
Aviva is of the view that Mr T has failed to follow medical advice to return to work gradually, 
and has instead worked when he wanted to. It thinks Mr Ts decision to work full days has caused a boom and bust effect on his health, and that this approach has led to Mr Ts 
return to work being unsuccessful and prolonged the claim.
It appears that Mr T has worked based on his ability at the time, taking into account his 
symptoms. I dont think hes deliberately gone against any direct medical advice given to him 
by any of his doctors in respect of returning to work. I note that Dr M didnt specify what 
hours Mr T should work each day, only that he thought Mr T should return on 14 hours a 
week, and then attempt to gently increase his hours. He suggested increasing the hours by 
five hours every four to six weeks until Mr T had reached his full commitment. 
It seems to me that Mr T has made a significant effort to improve his health and also return 
to work (which was also acknowledged by Dr M), so I dont agree with Aviva that Mr T has 
failed to take reasonable steps to assist his recovery. I therefore dont find that Mr T failed to 
comply with the scheme terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
reinstate the claim and pay backdated proportionate benefit due from the date the claim was 
terminated. Interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date each payment was due to the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman