DRN-3058375
The complaint
Miss G and Mr H complain about what happened when Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited trading as Kensington Mortgages (KMC) repossessed and sold their home.
What happened
Miss G and Mr H said that they fell into arrears on their mortgage, and KMC repossessed
the property. They said that theyd offered £35,000 to clear the arrears and reduce the
mortgage, but KMC refused. They said that theyd applied to the court to have the eviction
set aside, but KMC sold the property during this time, even though things were on hold.
Miss G and Mr H said that the valuations on the property that KMC got were done
incorrectly, and although they complained about this, they were ignored. They said the
house was sold at £50,000 below market value. They said that the asset company that KMC
hired then broke and damaged items. And all their goods were disposed of.
They said this had a huge financial and emotional impact on them. They wanted
compensation.
KMC said that a significant level of arrears had built up on Miss G and Mr Hs mortgage.
KMC said it had seen no evidence to back up an offer of £35,000. And even if Miss G and
Mr H had paid that, this would still have left the mortgage with significant arrears. KMC
showed us the repayment history for the mortgage, which evidenced that the existing arrears
were well in excess of this amount.
KMC said that the property was repossessed on 27 March 2019. It told Miss G and Mr H
then that they had 14 calendar days to remove their belongings, and if anything was left, it
would be destroyed. But KMC said it had put the sale on hold when Miss G and Mr H applied
to the court to be allowed to re-enter the property. After their application was dismissed, it
marketed the property, and it was sold on 31 July 2019.
KMC said that its agents had arranged for Miss G and Mr H to enter the property on 8
August 2019, but they didnt turn up, apparently due to problems with their rental vehicle.
They said they would reschedule for 14 August, and KMC said it had agreed to that. But the
agents then rang Miss G and Mr H several times on 13 August, with no reply, and Miss G
and Mr H didnt turn up or get in touch on 14 August.
KMC said Miss G and Mr H rang the agents on 3 September to arrange a different date to
access the property, but the house clearance had already started.
KMC said that the property sold for £238,500, which was broadly in line with the valuations it
had received. Its estate agent had responded on this point already.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He said he could see that
Miss G and Mr H had had problems paying this mortgage almost from the outset. They
made an application in January 2019 to avoid eviction, when Mr H said that he would be
able to pay the mortgage from a pension. But KMCs notes show that it didnt receive any
evidence of the pension lump sum and Mr H also confirmed that he didnt provide this
information. So our investigator didnt think KMC acted unfairly by proceeding with the
repossession.
Our investigator said that whilst the marketing and sale of the property happened at the
same time as Miss G and Mr Hs final appeal to overturn the eviction, he didnt think this
made any difference to the overall outcome because the appeal was dismissed.
Our investigator said that KMC had instructed two independent and fully qualified surveyors,
as well as two estate agents to value the property. The eventual sale price of £238,500 was
in-line with these valuations. Our investigator thought KMC was right to rely on the
information provided to it in these valuation reports.
Our investigator couldnt see that the property had been damaged by KMC or its agents. And
if the damage that Miss G and Mr H pointed to, had been done by KMCs agents, he didnt
think that wouldve made a difference to the valuation and sale price of the property.
Our investigator said that KMC had given Miss G and Mr H a number of opportunities to
clear the property. The decision was then made to proceed with the house clearing as Mr
H hadnt kept the agreed appointments. Our investigator said KMC had given Miss G and Mr
H sufficient time to remove their belongings. But he said that KMC didnt have the right to
dispose of the items in the house. Our investigator couldnt accept Miss G and Mr Hs
valuations for the missing items, but he said KMC should pay £750 in compensation for the
distress and inconvenience that Miss G and Mr H experienced when their items were
disposed of.
KMC didnt reply to this view. Miss G and Mr H did reply, to say they didnt agree. They didnt
think £750 was sufficient compensation for KMC disposing of all their belongings. And they
still thought the sale price wasnt fair. They said that theyd been given hope when our
investigator said he was going to uphold their complaint and that had now been dashed.
Our investigator replied to say that the compensation payment hed recommended wasnt to
pay for the items that were destroyed. He said hed stressed he would need proof of the
value of items, and he just hadnt seen that. Because no agreement was reached, the case
was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that this has been a very emotional and upsetting experience for Miss G 
and Mr H. Theyve told us about the impact that losing their home and possessions 
has had on them. So Im all the more sorry to have to tell Miss G and Mr H that I 
dont think their complaint should be upheld.
This decision will be provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance to comment before 
I make a final decision.
Miss G and Mr H said they offered £35,000 to clear the arrears and reduce the 
mortgage, but KMC wouldnt accept it. Our investigator said it didnt look like Miss G 
and Mr H had been able to show KMC where this money was coming from. But I can 
see that, at the time this offer was discussed in early 2019, the arrears on the 
mortgage were rather more than this. So I dont think that KMC wouldve been wrong to turn down an offer of £35,000 at that point. I dont think KMC has wrongly rejected 
an offer from the couple to clear their arrears.
I understand that Miss G and Mr H made applications to the court to be allowed to re-
enter the property. After the July 2019 application, I understand that a judge ruled 
they should not be able to make further applications unless they had the permission 
of a circuit judge.
Whilst an offer had been accepted at this point, the property sale hadnt been 
finalised. I dont think it was unreasonable for KMC to market the property whilst 
these proceedings were ongoing. 
Because Miss G and Mr H apparently needed the permission of a judge to make any 
further applications, I would expect that if theyd made another application, there 
would be quite a lot of paperwork to show that. And Ive not seen any evidence that 
there were court proceedings outstanding for Miss G and Mr H to recover the 
property when the sale was actually finalised. So I cant say that KMC did anything 
wrong by finalising the sale of the house at this point.
Miss G and Mr H felt that the house was being marketed at well below the price it 
could achieve, and they said that the house was then sold at undervalue. But KMC 
has shown us that it obtained four separate valuations, including two from 
independent surveyors. And it does look like the eventual sale price was in line with 
those valuations. So I dont think that Miss G and Mr Hs house was sold too cheaply 
by KMCs agents.
Miss G and Mr H said that some parts of the house were damaged by KMCs agents. 
They have pointed to a broken toilet cistern lid, and damaged kitchen cabinets, as 
well as other items of damage. 
I dont know what caused this damage. I do understand that Miss G and Mr H were 
upset by this. But I dont think these were items that Miss G or Mr H were expecting 
to collect from the property. And I also dont think that the damage they have told us 
about is likely to have affected the sale price of the property. So, even if this damage 
was caused by KMCs agents, I wouldnt be able to say that Miss G and Mr H were 
worse off because of it.
Miss G and Mr H also complained that they werent able to recover their property, in 
the house. They told us about the financial and emotional impact of losing their 
possessions. They say that these items were destroyed by KMCs agents, and they 
wanted KMC to pay for what theyve lost.
This term of Miss G and Mr Hs mortgage covers furniture and personal possessions 
in the property, after a repossession 
45. Your Furniture and Personal Possessions
45.1 If we or a receiver take possession of the Property, you must, when 
required, remove all of your furniture and other belongings. If you have not 
done so within 7 days of the date of that notice, we may as your agent 
remove, store or sell any items left behind.
45.2 Neither we nor the receiver will be responsible for any resulting loss or 
damage to your possessions.
You must reimburse us for all the expenses of dealing with your furniture and 
goods.If we sell any of them we will pay you what is left, after deducting those 
expenses.
Our investigator thought that this part of Miss G and Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that the terms of Miss G and Mr Hs mortgage didnt allow KMC to 
destroy the items which had been in the property.
Unfortunately, I dont think thats right. Our investigator has read this term to mean 
that KMC can remove items from the property, and then must either store or sell 
them. But thats not quite what this term says. 
I think this term gives KMC three options, to remove, to store, or to sell, any items 
which are left in the house. And I think that KMC took the first option here, which was 
to remove the items present in the property. I dont think that, having done that, it
was obliged either to store or to sell the items for Miss G and Mr H. And I note that 
KMC specifically says it wont be responsible for any resulting loss.
That doesnt mean that KMC can just remove everything straight after the house was
repossessed and dispose of it right away. If KMC was intending to dispose of items, 
rather than to store or sell them, then I would expect it to tell Miss G and Mr H that in 
advance, so that they understood what would happen if they werent able to collect 
items. KMC says it did this, and its shown us its internal notes which support what it 
says about this.
I would also expect KMC to give Miss G and Mr H reasonable access to the property, 
to collect their items before they were disposed of. But again, KMC says that it did 
give Miss G and Mr H a number of opportunities to collect their belongings. 
KMC first said to Miss G and Mr H on 27 March that they had 14 days to collect the 
items in the property, or they would be disposed of. Then I understand that Miss G 
and Mr H did attend the property on 15 April, but they said they werent able to collect 
their belongings then because of an unpleasant smell.
Miss G and Mr H arranged to visit the property again on 8 August, but they didnt 
attend, on this date. Miss G and Mr H have told us why they werent at the property 
on 8 August, but I dont know why they werent able to go on the date they then 
rescheduled for, 14 August, and werent able to get in touch with KMC until some 
time after that.
KMC said that by the time Miss G and Mr H got back in touch, on 3 September, the 
house clearance had already started.
I do understand the impact that this would have on Miss G and Mr H. But Ive thought 
about this carefully, and I think that Miss G and Mr H were given a number of 
opportunities to remove their possessions from their former home. And I can see 
from KMCs internal notes that it deferred clearance of the property a number of 
times.
I have to take all of this into account. And I have to assess what KMC has done here, 
and say if it was fair and reasonable. I dont think that KMC has been unreasonable 
or unfair in allowing Miss G and Mr H the opportunity to collect their possessions. 
And, although I know that Miss G and Mr H will disagree with me, I dont think it was 
under an obligation to store their property for them, once the house was sold.I know that Miss G and Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think that KMC has to 
pay compensation in this case. And that means I dont think their complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman