DRN-2883108
The complaint
Mr H complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined his motor insurance claim
following the theft of his car.  
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy with AXA. He claimed on his policy after his car was
stolen from a secure garage which provided valet parking. Mr H said hed parked there for a
number of years and the car had been stolen after another customer accidentally hadnt
secured the shutter properly.
AXA arranged for an investigator to interview Mr H. Following this, AXA concluded that the
keys had been left in or on the car and so turned down his claim. Mr H disputed this and
explained that there are several ways the keys would be left with the garage on any given
day depending on the space available. He didnt think the theft was his fault, as the garage
had never been left unsecured before.
As AXA refused to pay Mr Hs claim, he brought his complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 June 2021. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say:
You are not covered for the following:

Loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if you or anyone else has
left it unlocked or with keys or keyless entry system in your car, or on it.
In coming to its decision to decline the claim, AXA has referred to the first notification of loss
by Mr H and the subsequent report conducted by its investigator where it stated:
The vehicle was parked up in the garage and was NOT locked and key left in the
vehicle, in the event that it had to moved.
AXAs notes from when Mr H reported the theft state they [the garage] leave the keys in the
ignition.
In his submissions, Mr H has referenced a few different ways he would leave the keys with
the garage. But doesnt think he left the keys in or on the car on the day it was stolen.
While I cant say for certain whether the keys were left in or on the car on the night it was
stolen, on balance Im satisfied its more likely that they were, either by Mr H or the garage.
At the time of the incident and on first reporting to AXA, I can see reference is made to the
keys being left in the car so the garage could move it if needed but not the other ways Mr H
has mentioned. Ive also listened to Mr Hs call with our investigator where he said that if he
hadnt collected the car by the evening, the garage would leave the keys with the vehicle, for
example on the windscreen.
I understand Mr Hs frustration that it was the garage that left the keys in his car and not him.
But Mr H had given the garage responsibility for the keys and the term excludes cover when
either Mr H or anyone else leaves the keys in or on it. I do think leaving the keys in or on
the car made a difference to the theft, as they made the car easier to steal than had the keys
been locked away.
So, while I do think the exclusion applies, and made a material difference to the theft, I would
only find it fair for AXA to rely on the exclusion had it been sufficiently highlighted when Mr H
bought the policy. I say that because I consider a keys in car exclusion to be a significant
term as it has a significant impact on the level of cover afforded.
AXA believe the term is clear within the policy document under the What is not covered
section. Given the significance of the term, Im not persuaded this is sufficient. The section
is on page 16 of the policy booklet and the term itself is included within a number of other
exclusions. I havent seen any evidence to suggest significant or key terms were highlighted
to Mr H before the policy was bought, such as through an insurance product information
document (IPID) or other summary document.
As I dont think the term was suitably highlighted, I need to consider whether Mr H would
have acted differently had he been aware and the implications of that. Mr H has said that
had he been aware of the term he would have insisted the garage kept the keys in a secure
place.
Given the above, I dont think its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the keys in car
exclusion, as it wasnt drawn to Mr Hs attention at the time the policy was sold. I think if it
had been drawn to his attention, he would have behaved differently and instructed the
garage not to leave the keys in or on the car.
Its impossible to know if Mr Hs car would have been stolen had the keys been left
somewhere that wasnt in or on the car. However, as it might still have been stolen, if the
keys weren't in or on the car, as Mr H has said he would have asked for them to be kept
elsewhere, I'm satisfied this exclusion wouldn't apply. Therefore I intend to find that the fair
and reasonable outcome is for AXA to pay Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions and add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of the
theft to the date it makes payment.
Mr H accepted my decision, but AXA disagreed. It said it cant be expected to go through all 
exclusions when a policyholder buys a policy and to do so would create a poor customer 
journey. AXA said its for the policyholder to check the policy is suitable for them and it also 
offers a cooling-off period if the policy isnt suitable. AXA said that this exclusion is 
commonly found in insurance policies and it should be entitled to rely on the exclusion as the 
keys had been left in or on the car. AXA also said that if I upheld this complaint it would set a 
precedent that any policy wording could be overturned and would make the policy wording 
pointless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has a duty to highlight significant exclusions within the policy. While I accept that its not 
practical for AXA to highlight every exclusion, I do think keys in car is a significant limitation to the policy and as such should be sufficiently highlighted. 
I understand the exclusion is common across many insurance policies. I think its good 
industry practice for this type of exclusion to be highlighted and in many other policies Ive 
seen from other insurers, this type of exclusion is highlighted in an IPID.  
AXA hasnt provided anything further to show it sufficiently highlighted the keys in car 
exclusion to Mr H. So, for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I remain 
satisfied that its not fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the keys in car exclusion. As 
such, the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for AXA to pay Mr Hs 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and add interest to that 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of the theft to the date it 
makes payment.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, adding interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, 
calculated from the date of the theft to the date AXA makes payment. 
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman