DRN-2412117
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Principality Building Society (PBS) did not accept his mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with PBS. He sold the mortgaged property and repaid the mortgage in 
full in February 2020. As he was still within an interest rate deal period, he had to pay an 
early repayment charge (ERC) of just over £845.
Mr H then contacted PBS in April 2020 and made enquiries about porting his old mortgage 
to a new property. He explained that the property was a new build, and hed be taking 
ownership of the property within the next few weeks. He wanted to port the mortgage hed 
previously held as he understood that if he did this within six months of repaying his 
mortgage, hed be refunded the ERC.
PBS said, as the property was a new build, it needed to carry out a physical valuation  as 
there wasnt enough historic information about the property to carry out a valuation remotely. 
But, due to movement restrictions as a result of the pandemic, it was unable to arrange one 
at that time. And it said without a valuation, it wasnt able to give a lending decision. It also 
explained that mortgages couldnt be ported to a property that was already owned by the 
applicant  so if Mr H took ownership of the property in the coming weeks it wouldnt be able 
to lend.
Mr H complained to PBS. He was unhappy that hed been prevented from receiving a refund 
of the ERC. 
PBS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, due to circumstances outside of 
its control, it hadnt been able to verify that the new property met its lending criteria. So, it felt 
it was right to not proceed with the application. But it said Mr H could still apply to port the 
mortgage after restrictions had eased.
Mr H asked our service to investigate. He explained hed already taken borrowing elsewhere 
because PBS had told him it wasnt lending on new build properties.
One of our investigators considered matters. He said he didnt think PBS had acted unfairly. 
He didnt agree that PBS had said it was not lending on new build properties, rather it had 
explained to Mr H that, due to pandemic, it was unable to do so at that time, as it couldnt 
carry out the required valuations. And he didnt think this was an unreasonable decision. And 
as Mr H had chosen to repay the mortgage without confirmation PBS would be able to port 
it, and had taken the decision to take borrowing elsewhere since, he didnt think he could 
reasonably ask PBS to refund the ERC.
Mr H didnt agree. He said his recollection was that PBS had told him it wouldnt lend on new 
build properties at all, and this had informed his actions.
As Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has explained that the property he was buying was a new build. And it appears, from 
the information Ive reviewed, that he was also involved in constructing the property. So, the 
property doesnt appear to have been a typical new build, as there seems to have been at 
least some element of self-building involved. Building work was apparently completed at the 
time he spoke to PBS in April 2020. What it appears hadnt happened at that stage was him 
becoming legal owner, but this was due to go ahead imminently. 
PBS contact notes indicate though that Mr H contacted it previously, in October 2019, to 
briefly discuss porting criteria. The notes suggest at that time, it was explained that a 
mortgage couldnt be ported to a property already owned by the applicant  which Id add is 
a fairly standard condition within the mortgage industry. And the notes suggest the scenario 
of ownership discussed during that call was similar to that in April 2020.
Mr H redeemed his mortgage in February 2020 and paid the ERC. This was before any 
request to port was made - but after a discussion had been had around it being outside of 
PBS criteria to port a mortgage to a property that was already owned. So, when taking the 
decision to redeem the mortgage, Mr H was aware of potential issues if he took ownership of 
a new property before porting the mortgage.
Ive listened to the conversation Mr H had with PBS in April 2020 when he enquired about 
porting. PBS explained it couldnt provide lending on new build properties at that time, as it 
was unable to carry out physical valuations. But I think it was clear that this was temporary, 
due to the restrictions imposed by the government, specifically the national lockdown, 
preventing physical valuations. And Mr H even acknowledged as much during the call  that 
this was a temporary position and not a blanket exclusion by PBS of not lending on new 
builds. So, I cant agree with Mr H that PBS told him its lending criteria was not to lend 
against new build properties at all. 
PBS did again make it clear that another part of its lending criteria was that it wouldnt port a 
mortgage to a property that someone already owned, which again is not uncommon 
amongst mortgage lenders. In the call Mr H explained that hed be the owner of the new 
property within a matter of weeks  which seemed to be regardless of mortgage 
arrangements. So, I can understand why, based on the call, Mr H concluded it was unlikely 
that PBS would be willing to lend after he took ownership of the property. But it appears this 
was information he already had when he took the decision to redeem the mortgage in the 
first place.
Taking everything into account I think the information provided by PBS about its lending 
criteria and restrictions when speaking to Mr H was correct. 
Ive thought about whether PBS has acted unfairly by applying those lending criteria in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint.The lending criteria that has affected Mr Hs request to port, were all mentioned in the 
mortgage offer for the mortgage he took out in 2018 (and redeemed in February 2020). 
Specifically, that the new property must meet PBS lending criteria at the time of the 
mortgage transferring and that the mortgage cant be ported to a property already owned. 
So, these criteria had been decided, and indeed explained to Mr H, before the mortgage was 
redeemed, and this situation arose. I think the criteria make it clear that porting is not 
guaranteed. And I dont think PBS acted unreasonably in sticking to the criteria relating to 
properties already owned.
PBS was unable to check if the property met its lending criteria at the time of the request to 
port. And again, it seems to have acted in line with the criteria it had explained to Mr H when 
he first took out the mortgage when deciding this meant a lending application couldnt 
proceed. And I dont think this requirement by PBS was unreasonable  particularly here, 
where the property doesnt appear to have been a conventional new build.
The reason for not being able to check this was because it wasnt possible to carry out a 
physical valuation. And this was because of unprecedented circumstances. But I dont think 
this means PBS needed to waive the criteria to value the property, and check it fell in line 
with its lending criteria. Not doing adequate checks around the suitability of the mortgaged 
property (the security) couldve created significant additional risk for PBS. So, while I accept 
that the lockdown was outside of Mr Hs control, it was also outside of PBS, and I think itd 
be unfair to say that PBS should just accept the significant additional risk that wouldve come 
with waiving the need for a valuation just because of the unprecedented circumstances. So 
ultimately, I think PBS acted reasonably when saying it couldnt consider an application at 
that time. 
I also note PBS said that Mr H was free to apply to port once the lockdown restrictions, 
which were preventing a valuation, were eased. I think this was fair. Mr H chose not to do so, 
which he was entitled to do. But I dont think PBS did anything wrong that led to him taking 
that action. And the ERC appears to have been charged correctly in line with the terms of 
the mortgage Mr H agreed in 2018. So, I dont think I can reasonably require PBS to refund 
that amount here as I dont think it has made an error in how it handled matters.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman