DRN-2901527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about a Mortgage and Family Protector plan sold to them in 2003.
Responsibility for the sale now sits with Zurich Assurance Limited. They also provided the 
product, until Mr and Mrs G cancelled it in 2009. 
Ive previously decided our jurisdiction in this case is limited to looking only at new 
complaints Mr and Mrs G raised in 2020. We cant look at any points  specifically about 
mis-sale or suitability  raised in a complaint from 2013.
The new 2020 complaints were:
The plan sold in 2003 included cover for dependents, but it shouldnt have because 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have any at the time.
The advisors actions were unreasonably influenced by (or otherwise unfair because 
of) the commission they earned from the sale of the plan.
What happened
In response to Mr and Mrs Gs complaints, Zurich accept that the plan included cover for 
dependents. But Zurich said that this was a free addition to the policy. They say the plan 
would have cost the same without that cover. And they noted the plan was intended to last 
25 years, so even without dependents at the time, the cover could have been useful during 
the life of the policy. 
Mr G argues the cover would have added to Zurichs costs when providing the plan. So he 
feels that cost has been passed on to him by Zurich having a higher overall premium. He 
feels it would therefore have been possible to find a cheaper policy that better suited his and 
Mrs Gs needs, by finding one that didnt include dependents cover. 
On the commission point, Zurich have explained that this would have been included in 
documents given to Mr and Mrs G at the time. They say the commission paid was agreed 
contractually between them and the company that sold the policy, in line with regulations of 
the time. 
Mr G has said that a recent court decision about commission in payment protection 
insurance (PPI) sales prompted him to feel the commission paid on his Mortgage and Family 
Protector plan made the plan unsuitable. 
Our investigator looked at these issues and sent out a written view back in May 2021. He 
explained that the fact a plan would have cost the same with or without the dependents 
cover meant it was reasonable for it to be included in Mr and Mrs Gs plan. 
Our investigator also explained how we look at applying the court decision Mr G had referred 
to relating to commission. He ultimately concluded that Mr and Mrs G were more likely than 
not told about the commission paid at the time. And as a result, he felt the commission 
hadnt created any unfairness in the relationship between Zurich and Mr and Mrs G.
Unhappy with that view, Mr G asked for the complaint to be looked at again. He also sent us 
a copy of a document from 2003, which showed what the advice to have the plan would 
cost. 
The complaint is now with me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the two complaints I 
can look at in this case. 
Ive seen nothing to dispute Zurichs comment that including dependents cover in the plan 
made no difference to the premium Mr and Mrs G would have paid. As such, it was 
reasonable for Zurich to leave the cover in the plan. With it there, Mr and Mrs G had the 
chance to benefit from it, at no extra cost. 
Ive considered Mr Gs point, but the dependents cover alone wouldnt make the policy 
unsuitable. His comment speaks to the overall cost of the policy making it unsuitable, as 
there may have been cheaper options available elsewhere that didnt have dependents 
cover. 
How much to charge for any policy is a matter for a business to decide. Its likely that 
decision would consider a number of factors, not just the cost of any individual added extras. 
Therell be a balance for the business between the cost of providing the extra cover and the 
increase it produced in sales to potential customers. Providing the extra dependents cover 
here wouldnt necessarily increase the cost of the policy, if it added to how many policies 
could be sold overall. 
So I find Mr Gs point isnt supported by any evidence. Its clearly something he believes, but 
Im not satisfied theres enough to that belief for me to safely base a conclusion on it. Given 
the cost of the policy seems not to be changed by having the dependents cover, I find it was 
reasonable for the cover to be included, even if Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have used it. 
Moving on to the commission point, I find it reasonable that the company that sold the policy 
to Mr and Mrs G received some kind of reward for that work. I also find it reasonable that the 
reward took the form of commission. Commission on its own isnt forbidden, and doesnt 
automatically make the sale unreasonable. 
The court case Mr Gs referred to had a number of specific points to it that dont apply here. 
Our investigator explained all of these, so Im not going to repeat them. But where our 
investigator had no direct evidence of exactly what was said or discussed about commission 
when the plan was sold to Mr and Mrs G, I now have the document from 2003 that Mr Gs 
sent to us. 
This shows he and Mrs G were given the following details:That tells me Mr and Mrs G were made aware thered be a cost for the advice they received, 
taken from what they paid for the plan. Thats quite different to the court case Mr and Mrs G 
have referred to. In that other case, the issue was the non-disclosure of how much 
commission was being charged as part of the premium made the relationship between the 
customer and the business unfair. 
I find the court case doesnt really apply to Mr and Mrs Gs case. For them, details of 
commission were included at the time the product was sold. And that commission wasnt of 
itself unreasonable, or in breach of any rules that Im aware of. As such, I find it reasonable 
that Mr and Mrs Gs premiums included payments that were then used to pay for the advice 
they received, by way of commission. 
My final decision
Given my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold these complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman
