DRN-3087996
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Startline Motor Finance Limited handled the rejection of a car 
he acquired through a hire purchase agreement, when he complained about its quality. 
  
What happened
In May 2020 Mr A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. He experienced 
problems with the sunroof, and repairs were undertaken in June 2020. 
Mr A received an estimate for replacement engine and gearbox mountings in August 2020 
and complained to Startline about the quality of the vehicle. An inspection of the vehicle was 
completed in September 2020, and Startline sent Mr A their final response to his complaint 
in October 2020. They accepted the rejection of the vehicle based on the inspection 
completed in September. The vehicle was recovered at no cost to Mr A, the agreement was 
bought to an end and Mr As £4,000 deposit was refunded. 
Startline told Mr A that because hed continued to the use the vehicle, they wouldnt refund 
any of the monthly payments Mr A had made. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He says the vehicle should 
have been rejected some time before it was, and so his monthly payments should be 
refunded. He also asked for compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. She thought that Startline should pay Mr A 
interest on the deposit refund. She thought that it was fair for Startline to keep Mr As 
monthly payments, as the vehicle was rejected in good time. However, she thought Mr A had 
experienced impaired use of the vehicle and so 10% of these payments should be refunded. 
Our investigator also thought that Mr A had been put to distress and inconvenience in having 
to contact a number of people on numerous occasions to have the matter resolved, and so 
Startline should pay Mr A £150 compensation to reflect this. 
Starline accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr A disagreed, saying that if the 
rejection had been handled in good time, he wouldnt have travelled many miles in the car, 
or made any payments. Hed like all of his monthly payments returned. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Startline as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
Its not in dispute that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the time of supply. Startline 
accepted this in their final response to Mr A, and have processed the rejection of the vehicle. 
Startline refunded Mr As deposit of £4,000. Ive seen no evidence that a payment for 
interest was made when the deposit was refunded. Where a deposit is refunded, interest 
should be added in order to compensate for the time that someone is without these funds 
and so hasnt had that money available to use. So, Im satisfied that Startline should pay Mr 
A 8% simple yearly interest on the deposit from the date of payment to the date of the 
refund. 
Mr A has asked for a refund of all monthly payments he made under the agreement, saying 
that had he been able to reject the vehicle when he first asked to, he wouldnt have had to 
make any payments. 
When Mr A first experienced an issue with the vehicle in June 2020, a repair was agreed 
and took place. Where a repair is agreed, there is no longer a right to reject the vehicle, 
unless that repair subsequently fails. I havent seen any evidence that the early repair to the 
sun roof failed. 
Mr A reported further problems in August 2020 and reports show that a new engine and 
gearbox mount were required. Im satisfied, based on the evidence, that this fault was not a 
reoccurrence of the previous fault with the vehicle. Startline investigated the second fault, a 
report was completed, and the vehicle was rejected in September 2020. I think it was 
reasonable for Startline to request a report to determine the fault with the vehicle, and I cant 
see that they delayed the rejection of the vehicle once the investigation had taken place. So, 
I think the vehicle was rejected at the earliest opportunity. 
Mr A was able to travel around 5,000 miles in the vehicle whilst the complaints were 
ongoing, so he has had use of it. Even if Mr A had rejected the vehicle sooner, I think hed 
have needed an alternative form of transport, so would have paid for use of another vehicle 
in any event. 
I think its reasonable that Mr A pay for the use of the vehicle, and that his monthly payments 
under the agreement reflect the fair use of the vehicle. 
Our investigator recommended that Startline refund 10% of Mr As monthly payments to 
reflect impaired use. Its clear that Mr A required the vehicle in order to get to and from his 
place of work, so he continued to use it whilst the faults were investigated. But the vehicle 
wasnt performing as expected for the majority of the time Mr A had use of it, with reports of 
engine noise and overrevving. Im satisfied that a refund of 10% of all of Mr As monthly 
payments is fair in the circumstances, to reflect the impaired use of the vehicle during this 
time. 
Our investigator recommended that Startline pay Mr A £150 compensation for the impact the 
situation has had on him. Mr A has been put to distress and inconvenience in arranging for 
inspections and trying to have the situation resolved. Overall, Im satisfied that this 
compensation reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr A.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Startline Motor Finance Limited 
to: 
Pay Mr A 8% interest on his deposit refund, from the date of payment to the date it 
was refunded. 
Refund Mr A 10% of his monthly rental payments
Pay Mr A £150 compensation 
If Startline considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman