DRN-1730782
Complaint
Mrs B, whos represented by a third party, says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs B bought the policy in May 1995 at the same time as she was taking out a credit card.
She says she didnt know the PPI was added to her account or that she had a choice about 
taking it. She also says it wasnt properly explained to her and she didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion,so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it out. The application form Mrs B filled out in a branch of Barclays asked her to 
indicate if she wanted PPI by ticking a box to show she wanted it. Mrs B did this. If 
shed left this section blank the PPI wouldnt have been added to her credit card. So I 
think its fair to say that the PPI was added at her request.
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs B hasnt told 
us about any employer benefits she may have been entitled to, and it doesnt look 
like she had any other financial resources available. So I think she could have found 
it difficult to make her monthly payments fairly soon after being off work sick or losing 
her job. It follows that the PPI cover, which would pay out for up to 12 months if she 
made a successful claim, was likely to have been suitable for Mrs B.
 
Ive seen that the policy cost 70p for each £100 Mrs B owed on the card. If she made 
a successful claim, Mrs B would have had 10% of the outstanding balance on the 
card paid for up to 12 months. The policy cost appears to have been comparable to 
other similar policies offering similar benefits at the time and it appears to have been 
affordable.
 So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for 
Mrs B. 
 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs B, Barclays also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy 
was suitable for her, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her from buying 
it. 
 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Barclays doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs B paid for it. But Barclays has already offered to give Mrs B back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman