DRN-2461150
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs P, helped by a representative, complained because Lloyds Bank plc didnt 
refund them for a £500 withdrawal. They said a cash machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On 23 May 2020, Mr R used a cash machine outside another bank to withdraw £500. He 
said that he waited about five minutes, but nothing came out, and there was a queue behind 
him.  It was a bank holiday Saturday, and on the next working day, 26 May, Mr R got in 
touch with Lloyds.
Lloyds paid a temporary credit of £500 into Mr R and Mrs Ps account, while it investigated 
with the machine owner. But on 5 June it wrote to Mr R and Mrs P to say it had received 
confirmation that the cash machine had been working correctly at the time of the withdrawal. 
So there had been no error with the transaction, and Lloyds said it would take back the 
temporary £500 credit ten days later on 15 June, which it did.
Mr R and Mrs P didnt agree, and complained. But they didnt hear back promptly, though 
they chased Lloyds four times. 
On 13 July, Lloyds sent its final response to Mr R and Mrs Ps complaint. It said that the 
original provisional £500 credit had been made subject to Lloyds investigation, as it had 
explained when Mr R had reported the problem. Lloyds also said it hadnt made an error in 
its investigation or process. 
But Lloyds agreed that it hadnt kept Mr R and Mrs P informed about their subsequent 
complaint, which had meant Mr R had made multiple calls. Lloyds said it should have sent 
update letters on 22 and 29 June. It apologised for the distress and paid £50 into Mr R and 
Mrs Ps account.
Mr R and Mrs P werent satisfied and complained to this service, with the help of a 
representative.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr R and Mrs Ps complaint. He explained that he could only 
recommend a refund if there had been a fault with the cash machine, because provided it 
didnt malfunction, there was nothing more a bank could do to protect a customers money. 
That would include a situation where anyone else had taken the money. The investigator 
looked at the other banks electronic records of transactions, which showed the transaction, 
and that the notes had been dispensed. 
The cash machine owner had also balanced the machine on 2 June, comparing the cash 
originally put in, the cash left, and the recorded transactions. The machine had £50 less in it 
than expected  which didnt indicate that Mr R and Mrs Ps £500 hadnt been dispensed.
Mr R and Mrs P didnt agree. Their representative said that theyd previously asked Lloyds, 
and wanted this service, to obtain CCTV. This would show that Mr R hadnt had the cash, 
even though the machine records showed it had been paid out.
The investigator replied that he could only recommend a refund if the machine itself had 
gone wrong  and this did sometimes happen, but would always show in the electronic 
record. He also explained that any CCTV showed that anything else had happened  such 
as a customer forgetting to take the cash  it wasnt something he could ask the bank to put 
right.
Mr R and Mrs Ps representative asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the machine records show
When looking at this type of complaint, I base my decision on the factual information which 
the machine records provide. The machine lists all transactions with the exact date and time 
when the card and PIN were entered. For withdrawals, it also says what mix of notes was 
dispensed, and whether the notes were dispensed fully, or retracted for any reason.
Ive examined the cash machine records for Mr Rs transaction. This shows that he correctly 
entered his PIN at 12:21:48 on 23 May. He requested £500, and the machine counted 4 x 
£10 notes and 23 x £20 notes, totalling £500. The record shows that the notes were 
dispensed and the transaction ended at 12:22:05.
Ive also looked at the transactions before and after Mr Rs. Both were cash withdrawals and 
dont show evidence of anything going wrong. In particular, I note that the one after Mr Rs 
started at 12:23:19 and ended at 12:23:30. The start time for this transaction doesnt tally 
with Mr R saying he waited for about five minutes after the machine didnt give him his 
money.
The other factual evidence we have is from the machine owner who balanced the machine 
on 2 June. As Ive set out above, this showed that there was £50 less than expected. If Mr 
Rs £500 hadnt been dispensed, the balance would have showed £500 more than expected.
So the machine evidence doesnt show that it malfunctioned. 
CCTV
I recognise that Mr R is keen to see the CCTV from the time. But CCTV rarely provides the 
answer that customers hope it will. Even if there were a CCTV camera nearby  say on the 
other side of the road  its highly likely it wouldnt have shown clearly what had happened. I 
consider its unlikely any CCTV would have shown both a clear close up of what came out of 
the cash dispensing slot, and also a clear picture of whoever took that money away.
Also, CCTV isnt kept indefinitely by the CCTV providers, but is recorded over, usually within 
30 days. So it would no longer have been available by late June 2020, and I wouldnt be able 
to obtain it now. 
I appreciate that Mr R said he asked Lloyds for the CCTV earlier on, but for the reasons 
above, its most unlikely it would have shown definitively what happened. 
In view of:
- the machine evidence that the £500 was dispensed correctly; - the machine didnt show a £500 surplus when it was balanced; and 
- the next person in the queue accessed the machine just seconds after Mr Rs 
transaction, rather than after the five minutes which Mr R reported waiting,
I dont have the evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman