DRN-1892305
The complaint
Mrs H says that she was living off a state pension and got a £10,000 loan from Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide) in branch. She later got further loans of £2,000 and £5,000 in 
branch. She says that the loans werent affordable and that Nationwide should have looked 
into her income further. Mrs H is now in arrears with the loan. 
  
What happened
Mrs H says that she initially went into her Nationwide branch to take out a mortgage against 
her house as she was doing home improvements and intended to sell the house once this 
was done. She was told that she couldnt get a mortgage but could get a personal loan and 
top it up in bits. Mrs H says that she hadnt borrowed money before and was surprised at 
how easy it was for her to borrow money.
Mrs H took out her first loan (ending 4469) for £10,000 on 21 May 2018. The repayments 
were £179.51 a month over 60 months and the loan was on an interest rate of 3.0%. 
Mrs H then took out a second loan (ending 1376) for £11,236.11 on 13 November 2018  
this included the remaining amount payable for the first loan along with a further £2,000. The 
repayments went up to £202.67 a month over 60 months and the loan was on an interest 
rate of 3.2%.
Mrs H took a third loan (ending 0874) for £15,727.02 on 21 February 2019  this included 
the remaining amount payable on the second loan along with a further £5,000. The 
repayments increased to £235 a month over 84 months and the loan was on an interest rate 
of 6.9%.
Mrs H says that her income was £652 a month made up of state pension and pension 
credits. She says she gave proof of income but thinks its possible that Nationwide 
considered some backdated pension credits when she took out the first loan. Mrs H says 
that she told them not to consider the extra pension credits as they werent part of her 
normal income. She feels they should have looked into this further and she showed them 
this information. Mrs H says she wasnt asked about her household expenses or monthly 
outgoings and no affordability assessment was done.
Mrs H says that she didnt understand what she was signing up to. She was initially able to 
keep up the repayments. She had some savings but says these have run out and she took 
the loan out after this. Mrs H only wrote down her finances recently when she started to 
struggle and realised her income was less than her outgoings. By July 2019 Mrs H had been 
sent a notice of arrears as the loan was two months in arrears. This showed that there was 
an outstanding balance of £15,276.09 including arrears of £470. Mrs H says that Nationwide 
did an affordability assessment for the first time when she went into arrears on the loan. The 
debt was subsequently sold on to a third party by Nationwide.
Mrs H says that this has not just impacted on her life financially but that the anxiety and 
emotional cost has been huge, especially at a time of life where her health has suffered. She 
says that running out of money except the restricted income of her state pension would have 
been bad enough but that she cannot now do anything and it has limited her life beyond 
belief. 
Nationwide doesnt agree that it has made errors during its lending process. It says that the 
eligibility criteria for its loans are that the applicant must be aged 18-79, have a net monthly 
income of over £700, have the right to live and work in the UK for the term of the loan, not 
have missed 3 or more credit commitments within the last 12 months and not be currently 
declared bankrupt, have a CCJ or be subject to an IVA. It says that its the responsibility of 
the applicant to ensure the agreement is affordable before signing the documentation. 
In relation to Mrs Hs concerns about the interest rate and total sum payable, Nationwide 
says that these were detailed on each loan agreement. In light of Mrs Hs financial difficulties 
and her account falling into arrears, Nationwide agreed to payment concessions on the loan 
meaning no payment was required for a period of time.
Nationwide paid Mrs H £100 as it couldnt evidence what was or wasnt said with Mrs H 
during the application for the loan in branch in May 2018. It said that the member of branch 
staff couldnt recall being given any information about the additional pension credits which 
shouldnt have been taken into consideration.
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service where it was looked at by an investigator. The 
investigator found that it wasnt reasonable for Nationwide to lend the initial loan to Mrs H 
based on the information it knew at the time. Further, that Nationwide should have taken 
additional steps to confirm whether Mrs Hs situation had changed when she took out the 
second and third loans. She found that the loan payments for all three of the loans were 
unaffordable and that the loans were irresponsibly lent to Mrs H. 
The investigator therefore found that Nationwide should buy back Mrs Hs loans from debt 
management companies, remove all interest and charges applied to the loans, arrange a 
repayment plan with Mrs H to repay what she initially borrowed (without interest and 
charges) minus any payments she had already made and remove any adverse information 
from credit reference agencies. She also directed that Nationwide should pay Mrs H an 
additional £100 for distress shes been caused due to her financial difficulties, as Nationwide 
shouldnt have lent to her.
Nationwide disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. It says that 
separate risk and affordability assessments were done for all loans. It says that it doesnt 
perform a full assessment of the customers outgoings for personal loan applications and 
that  along with a lot of its peers  it applies modelled assumptions. Nationwide says that 
Mrs H signed the loan applications and was satisfied at the time that she could afford the 
monthly repayments with the income declared. However, it did agree to buy back the loans 
from the debt management company in order to come to a payment arrangement with Mrs 
H. It has now closed the account to any further interest or charges and frozen the balance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
Before agreeing to an application for credit, businesses need to make sure they lend in a 
responsible manner. To do this they are required to carry out appropriate checks. There isnt 
a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But the checks need to be borrower-focused and proportionate to the application being made. These checks usually 
include an assessment of whether the person requesting credit can afford to make and 
sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation and other outgoings.
Ill first deal with Mrs Hs concern that Nationwide took the extra pension credits into account 
when agreeing the first loan, which she believes took her over Nationwides £700 monthly 
income lending threshold in error. I dont think that Nationwide has done this. Although Mrs 
H says her income was £652 a month, this is based on her receiving a payment of £253.28 a 
fortnight and a payment of £36.36 a week. So the figure she has provided relates to the 
amount she received every four weeks, as opposed to every month. Over the year, Mrs H 
would receive 52 payments of £36.36 (which equates to £157.56 a month) and 26 payments 
of £253.28 (which equates to £548.77 a month).
The notes Nationwide has provided show that for the first loan there was evidence of £708 
monthly income consisting of two pension payments of £548 and £158 totalling £708. So I 
think this is an accurate reflection of Mrs Hs monthly income as it is the same as calculated 
above using Mrs Hs regular pension payments. So I dont think Nationwide has included the 
extra pension credits in coming to Mrs Hs monthly income figure. However, as set out 
above, Nationwide is required to carry out affordability checks and checking Mrs Hs income 
is only a part of that. 
Ive looked at the evidence Nationwide considered when making the decision to lend Mrs H 
the first loan in May 2018. It has provided a copy of its affordability assessment which shows 
a declared income of £760. Mrs Hs household expenses show £359.73 and council tax 
shows £79.19 and no other debts or payments have been entered. The affordable monthly 
repayment was therefore calculated to be £321.08. 
Nationwide says that Mrs H declared that she was an owner occupier with no mortgage 
outstanding. It says that her household expenditure and council tax were modelled using 
data from the Office of National Statistics as this is deemed more accurate than relying upon 
applicant declared expenditure. Nationwide says that neither the applicant nor credit 
reference agencies reported any other debt. It says the first loan had a successful TAC (The 
Affordability Check) call but this suggested the income declared was high. Therefore, the 
application was handbraked for manual checks to be done on Mrs Hs income.
In relation to the first loan, I agree with the investigator that the checks carried out by 
Nationwide at this stage were not reasonable and proportionate. 
Once Mrs Hs monthly income had been manually verified, Nationwide was aware that this 
amounted to £708 a month, which was only marginally above the threshold of £700 in its 
own lending criteria. 
Nationwide has said it based its assessment of Mrs Hs expenditure on modelled statistical 
data. Mrs Hs actual expenditure exceeded the modelled data, and a more borrower-focused 
check would have shown this. But even based on the lower estimated figure Nationwide 
used, the proposed loan payments of £179.51 would have comprised more than two thirds of 
Mrs Hs disposable income (£269.08) and left her with less than £90 a month for any 
unforeseen expenses that might arise over the next five years. Nationwide was also aware 
that Mrs Hs income was unlikely to increase significantly over the course of the loan term.
That suggests to me that Nationwide didnt do enough to ensure Mrs H would be able to 
meet the payments in a sustainable manner without falling into financial difficulty or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences (CONC 5.3.1G). For example, a higher than 
expected fuel bill or a necessary property repair would have been enough to put Mrs H into 
financial difficulty.Nationwide didnt check Mrs Hs outgoings and I dont think it was reasonable for it to rely on 
estimated amounts rather than considering Mrs Hs actual monthly expenditure in the 
circumstances of this case.
Had Nationwide carried out checks that were more focused on Mrs Hs actual situation, it 
would have discovered that Mrs Hs expenditure was significantly higher than the amount it 
had estimated and her outgoings would not have left her with sufficient disposable income to 
pay the repayments for the loan. This means that the loan was not affordable for Mrs H and 
that she would be unable to repay what was lent sustainably. So Im not satisfied that 
Nationwides checks were appropriate and proportionate to Mrs Hs circumstances in this 
instance and I dont think it was fair of Nationwide to lend Mrs H the first loan.
In relation to the subsequent loans, the evidence provided by Nationwide indicates that 
these were cleared automatically and did not go through an affordability check due to the 
income having previously been verified and the repayments being within a tolerable 
percentage change. Nationwide has also provided a copy of its affordability assessment for 
the second and third loans which shows declared income of £800 and £850 respectively. 
Its not clear how these figures came to be entered on each occasion but by this stage 
Nationwide had verified Mrs Hs income to be £708 per month only a few months earlier and 
was aware that this income was solely from pension payments. The figures it used for the 
outgoings for both of the subsequent loans were again estimates in the same amounts as 
before and Nationwide again did not obtain any further information from Mrs H about her 
monthly expenditure.
The interest on the third loan was more than double the amount of that on the second loan, 
which meant that the monthly repayments had increased to £235 even though the term of 
the loan had increased by a further two years. Mrs H had asked for the second loan around 
six months after the first and then the third loan around three months later. So this meant 
that she was increasing her borrowing in quick succession which ought to have prompted 
Nationwide to make further enquiries into her financial situation. 
So I think all these factors would have meant it would have been appropriate and 
proportionate for Nationwide to have carried out further checks on whether the second and 
third loans were affordable for Mrs H. Had it done so, it would have discovered that Mrs Hs 
disposable income had not increased since the first loan and that the monthly repayments 
were still unaffordable given that they were higher than the repayments she was making for 
the first loan.
In summary, I dont think Nationwide did enough at the time of granting Mrs H any of the 
three loans to check that they were affordable for her. Based on the information available, I 
think it was sufficiently clear they werent capable of being sustained over the respective 
loan terms. And so Im satisfied that Nationwide lent irresponsibly.   
Putting things right
I have considered what would be a fair way to address these errors. Mrs H has had the 
benefit of the funds for each of the loans, so I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to 
write these amounts off. However, I dont think Mrs H should be held responsible for the 
costs associated with the loans  the interest, and any charges, applied to them. Had the 
loans not been granted, as I think should have happened, Mrs H wouldnt have had to pay 
these amounts, so I dont think it is fair that she should pay them now. I also dont think any 
negative information should be recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in respect of these loans  as 
without the errors by Nationwide, the loans wouldnt have existed. Mrs H has said that this matter has had a significant effect on her and caused her a lot of 
anxiety. And I can understand why having this debt wouldve been distressing. Given that I 
dont think Nationwide should have lent to Mrs H, in addition to the removal of the costs 
associated with the loans and the £100 already paid, Nationwide should pay a further £100 
to Mrs H to compensate for the distress shes been caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to:
Remove all interest and charges applied to all three loans;
Arrange a repayment plan with Mrs H to repay the amounts she initially borrowed 
(£17,000 for all three loans) less any payments she has already made towards all 
three of the loans;
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Hs credit file in relation to all three loans;
Pay Mrs H an additional £100 in respect of distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman