DRN-2867550
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society handled their application 
for a personal loan.
What happened
On 25 November 2020, Mrs and Mr C applied online for a joint personal loan with 
Nationwide. The loan was to pay for a car. After the application was submitted, 
Mrs and Mr C expected to receive the money within two hours  because thats what theyd 
read on Nationwides website. Instead, they received a notification which explained 
Nationwide required proof of Mrs Cs income. Nationwide also said it couldnt accept 
electronic signatures for a joint loan application, so it had sent the loan agreement by post 
for Mrs and Mr C to manually sign and return.
 
Mrs C contacted Nationwide the following day. After explaining her circumstances, the 
requirement for proof of her income was deemed unnecessary. And, to save time, 
Nationwides representative arranged for the loan agreement to be sent by email. During the 
call, the representative explained how to return the documents in an appropriate format.
 
Over the following days, Mrs and Mr C attempted to return their signed agreement by email 
several times  but none of their emails were accepted. On each occasion, Nationwide said 
it hadnt received the signed agreement in an appropriate format. In the meantime, while 
attempting to return their agreement by email, the paper copy had arrived  which 
Mrs and Mr C signed and returned.
 
Mrs C was unhappy with the lack of progression, so she called Nationwide to discuss the 
issue and raise a complaint. She said delivery of the car had now been postponed, because 
the loan application hadnt been progressed, which had caused some embarrassment. On 
2 December, Mrs C called Nationwide again to ask for an update. She was unhappy with 
how she was spoken to during this call, and felt belittled by Nationwides representative, who 
she said had no interest in hearing her explanations about how shed tried to return the 
signed loan agreement.
 
On 3 December, Mrs and Mr C checked their account  but they still hadnt received the 
money. So, they arranged to close two Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) to pay for their 
car. They also sent Nationwide a message asking it to cancel the loan application. But on 
the same day, Mrs and Mr Cs paper application had been received and processed by 
Nationwide. So, the loan funds were credited a few hours after Mrs and Mr C had decided to 
close their ISAs.
Nationwide sent its final response to Mrs and Mr Cs complaint on 16 December 2020. It 
explained that it couldnt accept electronic signatures for a joint loan, so the agreement 
needed to be manually signed and returned. And, if done by email, it needed to be returned 
in the correct format as a pdf document. Nationwide explained it hadnt been able to accept 
any of the agreements Mrs and Mr C had returned by email for several reasons; such as a 
missing page, not being able to access the link to the documents or the agreement being 
returned as a photograph  which wasnt permitted. Nationwide did acknowledge the poor 
service Mrs C had been provided when she called on 2 December, and it offered £75 
compensation and a bouquet of flowers by way of apology.
 
Mrs and Mr C remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to our service. An 
investigator considered what had happened, but she thought Nationwide had done enough 
to put things right. 
The investigator said it was unfortunate that Mrs and Mr C had experienced problems 
attempting to return the loan agreement, but Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong by not 
accepting documents returned incorrectly. She thought Nationwide had tried to assist 
Mrs and Mr C as best and quickly as it could  but she did agree that the service provided on 
the phone couldve been better. The investigator considered £75 and a bouquet of flowers to 
be a fair offer of compensation in the circumstances.
 
Mrs and Mr C disagreed. They said they didnt think Nationwide had tried to process 
everything as quickly as possible. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs and Mr C have provided a detailed explanation in support of their complaint. Ive 
summarised things in far less detail, and I may not have commented on everything 
Mrs and Mr C have raised. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, and nor do I intend to 
downplay what happened or how they feel about it. Rather, my summary of their concerns 
reflects the informal nature of our service. And Ive focussed my findings on the key issues 
that I think are relevant to decide this case.
Nationwide has said it cant accept electronic signatures for joint loan agreements. 
Mrs and Mr C feel this isnt clear on Nationwides website, and theyre also unhappy that 
Nationwide advertise loan funds will be credited within two hours  when thats not what 
happened. In the FAQs section of its website, Ive seen Nationwide does set out that it cant 
accept electronic signatures for joint loans. Moreover, also in the FAQs section, Nationwide 
explains the loan funds are usually credited within two hours once its received everything it 
needs. So, on balance, while that information may not be as prominent as Mrs and Mr C 
wouldve liked  I dont think its hidden. And I think its reasonable of Nationwide to only 
process a loan application once it has everything it needs.
  
When Mrs C spoke with Nationwide after submitting her application, she was given 
instructions on how to return the loan agreement by email. From what Ive seen, Mrs C was 
told the agreement needed to be returned as a pdf document. But its clear there were 
several problems Mrs and Mr C encountered when attempting to return it. On the three 
occasions Mrs and Mr C tried to return the agreement by email, Nationwide didnt accept it. 
So, Ive considered the reasons why. 
Nationwide has said it couldnt accept the first email because the loan agreement was 
missing a page, and it was also a photograph  which isnt an acceptable format. The 
second email couldnt be accepted because  while it was a pdf document  it still contained 
photographs. And the third email Mrs and Mr C sent contained a link to the signed agreement, which Nationwide has said it couldnt access or accept. 
Taking all of this into account, while its apparent that Mrs and Mr C tried to return their loan 
agreement efficiently, I cant fairly conclude Nationwide did something wrong. Thats 
because  despite Mrs and Mr Cs efforts  they didnt return the full, signed loan agreement 
in the requested format.
 
Nationwides contact notes show it emailed Mrs and Mr C after each of their unsuccessful 
attempts  and I think that shows it took steps to try and move things along. But given it 
wasnt in receipt of the loan agreement as requested, I dont think Nationwide acted 
unreasonably by not progressing the application. So, Im satisfied it didnt unnecessarily 
delay Mrs and Mr Cs loan application.
In the end, Mrs and Mr C closed their ISAs to finance the car purchase. Mrs C has said she 
feels they had little choice but to do so. But as Ive set out above, because it hadnt received 
the loan agreement in the correct format, Im satisfied Nationwide handled the loan 
application reasonably in the circumstances. So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr C, 
it follows that I dont think Nationwide is responsible for the decision they made to close their 
ISAs.
 
Mrs C has explained her unhappiness at the service she received when she called 
Nationwide on 2 December. Ive seen Nationwide has apologised for the way Mrs C was 
made to feel, and it also offered £75 and a bouquet of flowers. Considering the overall 
circumstances, I think its right that Nationwide compensates Mrs and Mr C for the distress 
caused  and Im satisfied its offer is a fair and reasonable way to of doing so. So, it should 
arrange to resolve Mrs and Mr Cs complaint as its already offered to do.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer that I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should settle the 
complaint as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman