DRN-3924379
The complaint
Mr P, through a representative, complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted him loans. 
What happened
Mr P was advanced at least ten home collected loans between August 2013 and 
August 2018. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentscost per 
week per 
loan
2 £200.00 28/08/2013 18/04/2014 50 £7.00
3 £400.00 06/12/2013 14/11/2014 50 £14.00
4 £300.00 18/04/2014 28/11/2014 50 £10.50
5 £600.00 28/11/2014 13/11/2015 50 £21.00
6 £200.00 27/03/2015 20/11/2015 34 £10.00
gap in lending
7 £600.00 26/08/2017 09/08/2018 52 £21.00
8 £400.00 26/08/2017 27/04/2018 33 £20.00
9 £300.00 24/11/2017 09/08/2018 33 £15.00
10 £1,000.00 09/08/2018 09/08/2019 52 £35.00
11 £300.00 09/08/2018 29/03/2019 33 £15.00
The numbering of the loans is based on Morses table that it provided the 
Financial Ombudsman, and which was used by the adjudicator in her assessment. Its likely 
Mr P had at least one further loan preceding loan 2 in the table above. 
This earlier loan was likely provided by a different company. This other company was 
acquired by Morses in March 2014, and it only took responsibility for any loans that were still 
active at the time of purchase. Therefore, this decision will only be able to deal with the loans 
listed in the table above.
Following Mr Ps complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it because proportionate affordability checks were carried out which showed the 
loans to be affordable. Mr Ps representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 2  5 and loans 7  11 due to the two chains of lending. However, 
she did think that the statement of account indicated that Mr P may have had some 
difficulties repaying loans 8 and 9 so by the time loans 10 and 11 were granted (on the same 
day) Morses ought to have verified the information Mr P had provided. But as she didnt 
have anything from Mr P about his circumstances at the time, she wasnt upholding his 
complaint about these loans. 
However, she thought the lending was harmful for Mr P by the time loan 6 was granted and 
so the adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint about this loan. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan 6. Ive 
summarised its comments below.
All loans up to loan 6 had been paid on time and without any difficulties. 
Loan 6 was the smallest capital loan he had borrowed. 
Although loan 6 overlapped with loan 5, this left a weekly commitment of £31. 
An income and expenditure form was completed with Mr P prior to loan 6 being 
granted and this showed the loan was affordable. 
There was no reason to believe loan 6 was unaffordable or unsustainable for 
Mr P. 
Mr Ps representative has confirmed a copy of the assessment has been sent to Mr P, but no 
further comments have been provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator thought this had 
been reached by the time loan 6 was granted. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mr P (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 2  5 and 7 - 11. I therefore I no longer think these loans 
are in dispute. 
I would add, I do also agree Morses made a reasonable decision to provide these loans. 
Although, I do think Morses ought to have carried out further checks before loans 10 and 11 
were granted as there were indicators in the way Mr P had repaid his previous loans that he 
may have been having some difficulties. So, I think it wouldve been prudent to have verified 
his information. However, as no new information about Mr Ps financial situation at this time, 
I cant hope the complaint about loans 10 and 11. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses made a reasonable decision to provide 
loan 6. 
Loan 6 
For this loan Morses wouldve likely asked Mr P for details of his weekly income and 
expenditure and Morses has provided a copy of a form which was completed with Mr P on 
the day the loan was granted. 
The information provided showed Mr P declared a weekly income of £340 with weekly 
outgoings of £150. This left more than sufficient disposable income in order to pay Morses a 
total of £31 per week.  Morses couldve reasonably believed Mr P would be able to afford his 
loan repayment. 
But given the time in debt, the number of loans that Morses has evidenced and the ever-
increasing weekly commitments to Morses which had grown from £7 per week ought to have 
led Morses to carry out further checks before granting this loan.   
So, by the time loan 6 was granted, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the 
very least, started to have verified any information it was being given but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Morses did this when loan 6 was granted. However, I dont think I need 
to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to 
conclude the loan was unaffordable for Mr P. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mr P, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr P had taken his fifth loan in 19 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover a 
long-term short fall in his living costs. 
While this was the joint smallest capital loan value to date, when it was granted loan 
5 was still outstanding, this led to a weekly commitment due to Morses of £31  
which was the largest weekly commitment Mr P had to pay to date.  So, Mr Ps 
lending pattern was an increasing the time in debt while increasing his weekly 
commitment. 
Mr Ps loans either overlapped or were taken in a consecutive manner. For example, 
loan 5 was taken around the time loan 3 was repaid and loan 4 was taken on the 
same day that loan 1 was repaid. All other loans were then held while other loans 
were running concurrently. However, the fact that these loans were lent, at times in a 
consecutive manner ought to have led it to realise the lending wasnt sustainable 
anymore.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. This loan was 
taken out 19 months after the first loan that we know about. The final loan was also 
for the same capital value as the first loan.  Mr P had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out when Morses provided loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are 
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses shouldnt have provided Mr P with loan 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman