DRN-3672929
The complaint
Mrs A complains that ReAssure Limiteds online portal showed her pension policy as 
terminated despite her belief it retained a value of around £60,000. Mrs A eventually 
transferred out her policy as she didnt feel it was safe with ReAssure.
What happened
Mrs A had a number of personal pension policies with ReAssure.  Mrs A made a withdrawal 
of around £3,000 from policy 1 (the policy subject to this complaint) in April 2021.
After the withdrawal was made, the policy was shown as terminated on the portal. In actual 
fact the policy shouldve shown a value of approximately £65,000 at the time.
Mrs A complained to ReAssure because of her inability to see the policy on the
portal. She complained on 10 May 2021, quoting the correct policy number, for policy 1. In a 
message dated 25 May 2021, Mrs A used the reference for policy 2 (not the subject of the 
complaint) with ReAssure. Mrs A said she had to use this reference as its online portal 
wouldnt allow her to select the correct policy.
Mrs A said she had spent lots of time chasing up an answer to this issue. She spoke to a 
member of ReAssures staff on the phone who said she couldnt get her a value but she 
would contact the reinstatement team and also ask for a current value to be sent to Mrs A. 
But then Mrs A received a response to her complaint only referencing policy 2  which Mrs A 
didnt want to complain about. It said that the policy wasnt visible on the portal as it had 
been terminated after Mrs A withdrew the full value. Mrs A contacted us and said she was at 
her wits end with worry. She asked us to help her get the policy reinstated as she was very 
worried about whether her money was safe.
Mrs A also told us her and her husband were having sleepless nights and considering 
getting legal help as they were worried about the value of their policy  as it was a lot of 
money to them.
When we requested that ReAssure provide us with a file to investigate, they only sent us
information about the incorrect policy, policy 2. Our investigator informed ReAssure that the 
complaint information we had sent them clearly stated the complaint was about policy 1  
but it continued to delay matters and refer back to policy 2. The investigator eventually 
issued a recommendation based on the information he had  although ReAssure believed it 
should have time to investigate it itself before we looked into it. The investigator pointed out 
it had already had that time and more. 
The investigator looked into matters and concluded that ReAssure had caused Mrs A a lot of 
unnecessary trouble and upset and awarded £500.
Whilst the case was awaiting an ombudsmans decision, ReAssure issued its final response 
to Mrs A  and apologised for its errors and sent her a cheque for £300.
By this time Mrs A had been able to transfer out the value of policy 1 to another provider. 
She instigated the transfer as her policy was still shown as terminated, worried about this 
she decided with the help of the receiving provider, to attempt to transfer the policy. Mrs A 
said the transfer went through quickly, without issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A was able to transfer her policy away and the transfer went through quickly, so it 
doesnt appear the termination issue caused any delay or financial loss. And ReAssure have 
accepted its errors, so it isnt necessary for me to set out in detail my reasoning for why it 
was at fault. What is left to decide is a suitable amount of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to Mrs A.
Despite the investigator recommending £500, ReAssure sent Mrs A a cheque for £300. 
ReAssure hasnt engaged with us about this complaint, other than to say it was about a 
different policy. I think it is clear what Mrs As complaint was and what policy it was about 
when she submitted the complaint to us  and regardless ReAssure had much longer than 
the 8 weeks it is permitted from that point to look into it. So it shouldve engaged with the 
investigator rather that separately doing its own investigation and writing directly to the 
customer. 
As the investigator awarded £500 and ReAssure only paid £300, I have to consider what is a 
fair level of compensation for the trouble and upset that ReAssures failures caused Mrs A.
Before the policy was transferred away, which Mrs A did because she had lost all trust in 
ReAssure, Mrs A had told us in a number of communications how worried she was about her 
money. She questioned whether she needed to seek legal representation, told us about her 
and her husbands sleepless nights worrying if shed be able to access the money which was 
in excess of £60,000. Its clear this money was extremely important to them and ReAssures 
continued poor customer service (which went on for nearly a year) was causing a lot of 
stress and inconvenience.
ReAssure had incorrectly terminated the policy on its online portal. Mrs A made a number of 
attempts at contact with ReAssure through different methods  but for nearly a year the 
policy showed as terminated. Mrs A on one of these bits of communication used an incorrect 
policy number  leading ReAssure to only respond about that policy and continue to say that 
policy was terminated (that was correct for that particular policy). However, I dont think 
given all the communication Mrs A had made to ReAssure with the correct policy number on 
it, it was a reasonable conclusion to respond only about the incorrect policy. This led to 
further confusion and worry that in fact Mrs As policy had in fact been terminated. 
However, this error wasnt corrected and Mrs A became ever more worried about the value 
of her policy. So she asked ReAssure to send her weekly statements. The evidence sent by 
ReAssure suggests it sent two statements following this showing the current value and 
transfer value. So it doesnt look like it was sent as Mrs A requested. I appreciate sending 
weekly statements was likely not an appropriate solution to this problem, but ReAssure 
should have communicated this to Mrs A. And it shouldve explained what it was doing to fix 
the issue with Mrs As policy on the portal. But it didnt. And after nearly a year, ReAssure 
still hadnt provided an explanation as to what it was going to do about the problem, and Mrs 
As policy was still showing as terminated on its policy. Considering the award for trouble and upset, Ive taken into account that ReAssures initial 
error of terminating the policy on the portal wouldve caused initial shock to Mrs A. This 
strikes me as what shouldve been a very simple issue for it to resolve. But a year later it had 
not been resolved. Mrs A went to great efforts to try and get the issue resolved  yet 
ReAssures customer service here was severely lacking, causing her further stress and 
worry about her policy. 
Eventually Mrs A decided she had to take the step of transferring her policy and this was an 
unnecessary inconvenience that wouldnt have occurred if ReAssure had sorted the problem 
at outset. Its clear from the early communications before the policy was transferred that this 
issue caused Mrs A a lot of distress and worry  and this went on for a year until it was 
transferred. Whilst eventually, ReAssure answered the complaint and apologised sending 
Mrs A a cheque for £300, I think in the circumstances ReAssure should make up the 
difference between the investigators recommendation, so award Mrs A an additional £200. 
This issue went on for far too long, increasing Mrs As worry and distress, so I think £500 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs A an additional £200 to bring her overall award up to 
£500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require ReAssure Limited to pay Mrs A £500 as compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. On the understanding that ReAssure has already paid Mrs 
A £300, following Mrs As acceptance of this decision, it should pay an additional £200 to 
bring matters to a close.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman