DRN-3058381
The complaint
Mr K complains that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) made an irresponsible lending decision 
when it provided him with a loan in 2014.
What happened
In October 2014, Mr K took out a loan for £2060 secured against his vehicle with an annual 
rate of interest of 213.82%. The loan was to be repaid weekly with 260 weekly repayments 
of £45.96 (of which £38.04 represented interest repayments).
In May 2020 Mr K complained to CCP about its decision to lend to him in 2014. He said the 
loan was unaffordable and had appropriate checks been completed at the time, this would 
have been clear. In the absence of these checks he feels CCP made an irresponsible 
lending decision.
CCP didnt agree. In its response it explained the checks it did undertake and why it felt 
these were sufficient to verify Mr Ks income and expenditure and confirm the borrowing was 
affordable. It noted two other loans in Mr Ks name but that these were up to date with no 
arrears or issues highlighted and the amount of income disclosed against the expenditure 
showed Mr K had a net disposable income of over £2000.
The complaint was brought to this service and our investigator agreed with Mr K that the 
checks carried out when the loan was taken out werent sufficient to understand whether the 
loan repayment was affordable. She felt that further checks would have demonstrated that 
Mr K did not have the available disposable income claimed and that hes credit history 
showed hed struggled to meet his financial commitments previously. And the loan with CCP 
wasnt affordable to Mr K.
She felt the decision to lend to Mr K based on the information it assessed was irresponsible 
and she explained what she felt CCP needed to do to put things right.
She recommended it do the following:
- Refund all interest and charges Mr K paid to date. As the borrowing had been repaid 
in full already, the amount should be given back to Mr K with simple interest* of 8% 
added.
- CCP should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges.
CCP disagreed with our assessment. It said the checks completed at the time gave no 
reason to indicate that the declared income wasnt accurate. And the statements about the 
shares of the household expenses were plausible too. It felt there was nothing that indicated 
it should have been concerned about Mr Ks ability to repay the loan. It also said it would 
have considered the CCJs Mr K had recorded against him as historic debts as they were 
more than four years old when the application was made. It also highlighted that it felt Mr Ks 
repayment history demonstrated he had no trouble meeting the obligations of the loan.
Because CCP didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and will 
explain why.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending can be found on our website and Ive 
followed this approach when considering Mr Ks complaint.
The rules and regulations relevant at the time when CCP provided Mr K the loan are set by 
the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules. These required CCP to carry 
out an assessment of Mr Ks credit worthiness with reasonable and proportionate checks to 
determine whether he could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way. These needed to 
be borrower focused, meaning consideration needed to be given to whether repaying the 
debt in a sustainable way could result in difficulties for Mr K.
There is no set list of checks defined as reasonable and proportionate and as these checks 
need to be borrower focused, it follows that this could be different from one person to the 
next. 
CCP explained the checks it carried out when the loan was taken out with an affordability 
assessment. It assessed the income of Mr K, reviewing his work logbook to confirm average 
weekly earnings and asked him to confirm details of his outgoings for his expenditure. It 
didnt complete a credit check as part of its checks and these were based solely on the 
information provided by Mr K, including evidencing payments to his account. It feels these 
checks demonstrated Mr K was in a strong financial situation with a net disposable income in 
the region of £2000. And based on this, it wouldnt have been reasonable and proportionate 
to carry out further checks.
Mr K was looking to borrow £2060, roughly the same amount as his income expenditure 
assessment showed he had available as his disposable each month. The snap shots of his 
current account provided to evidence his income showed a balance available of less than 
£10 and highlighted an ongoing loan repayment with another provider (covered on the 
affordability assessment). And Mr K let CCP know hed recently taken out another loan in 
addition to this. So I dont think the checks indicated that Mr K was in a strong financial 
situation, or that it was likely he had a disposable income of £2000. 
The loan amount requested wasnt a significant amount, but the interest rate and number of 
repayments meant the total amount repayable and ongoing commitment was. So based on 
the information gleamed from the checks and the amount and term of the borrowing, I think it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate to go further with the checks.
Had CCP reviewed Mr Ks credit file it would have demonstrated hed previously had a 
number of credit accounts which hes struggled to maintain, with accounts in default and 
County Court Judgements (CCJs) issued against him. At the time of the borrowing he had 7 
active defaults on his credit file and 2 CCJs which would have still been visible despite 
having been registered some time before. 
Had the bank statements also been requested to verify Mr Ks income, it would have been 
apparent this was someway short of the amount detailed on the affordability assessment with a maximum monthly income in the three months proceeding the application of less than 
£2750. Against the recorded expenditure on the affordability assessment of £3245.97, Mr K 
would have been shown to be spending more than he was earning each month.
Overall, Im satisfied that had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out, it 
would have been evident that Mr K was unlikely to be able to afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And the decision to lend to him in the absence of these checks was 
irresponsible.
Putting things right
As Mr K enjoyed the benefit of the loan amount, it is fair this was repaid. But the interest and 
charges incurred on this borrowing isnt something he should have paid. The loan has been 
repaid in full now by Mr K but as the lending shouldnt have been provided, CCP need do the 
following to put things right:
- Refund Mr K the interest and charges applied to his loan with 8% simple interest* 
added. 
- Remove any negative information relating to the interest and charges from Mr Ks 
credit file.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require CCP to deduct tax from the interest payment at the 
standard rate. If CCP deducts this, it should provide upon request, a statement of the tax 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint against CarCashPoint 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman