DRN-4231845
The complaint
Mr E complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No. 9)
(Asset Link) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Asset Link took over legal responsibility for the loan from another business, Future Finance 
Corporation Limited. So in this decision I will refer to the business only as Asset Link. 
In September 2017 Asset Link approved Mr E for a loan by way of a guarantor loan 
agreement for £27,890. The loan was to help fund tuition fees and living costs for a one year 
course to gain a professional qualification, Mr E having already graduated from university. 
Under the terms of the loan the monthly payments were set at £5 for 12 months from 
October 2017, increasing to £403.41 per month from October 2018 until September 2028.
Mr E says he didnt finish the course due to difficulties with being able to balance work and 
study.
As of June 2023, Mr E had been keeping up to date with the agreed level of repayments.
Mr E says the loan was irresponsibly lent. He says Asset Link didnt complete reasonable
and proportionate checks before approving the loan. He says he cant afford the ongoing 
loan repayments and that its also having an impact on his ability to obtain further borrowing 
as well as affecting his health. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint be upheld. She thought Asset Link 
had likely completed proportionate checks, including using predicted future income data, 
before lending to Mr E. 
Mr E disagreed. He maintained that Asset Link had acted unfairly when initially approving 
the loan. He also pointed out that he didnt complete the course and so start his planned 
profession and was now struggling to repay the remainder of the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Taking into account the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, in this 
decision I will focus on the question of whether Asset Link completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way, both at the point of granting the loan and once the initial low payment 
period had ended. 
Did Asset Link make a fair lending decision?
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it lent responsibly to Mr E. The
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent required it to carry out
reasonable and proportionate checks.
These checks needed to assess Mr Es ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over 
its term without causing him financial difficulties. There isnt a set list of checks a lender
needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, taking into account things like the type,
amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances.
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Asset Link was entitled to rely on the expected 
future income for Mr E when making this assessment. This was on the basis that this 
assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in terms of 
proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial 
payments.
Asset Link says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, including using statistical 
information based on his course of study. This also included consideration of Mr Es future 
income and intended career. It also says it completed a credit search on Mr E before 
approving the loan.
Asset Link considered that the £5 per month repayments that Mr E would have to pay whilst 
still on his course to be affordable. The bank statements Mr E sent us also show this to be 
affordable in my view. Ive noted that Mr E was making use of his overdraft and had other 
expenditure. Having an overdraft in place wouldnt be unusual for Mr Es circumstances as a 
student in study. Having noted his level of expenditure, I cant see that having to find an 
additional £5 per month would have had a significant impact on his overall financial 
circumstances. 
Asset Link then went on to calculate Mr Es future expected income. It says based on the 
information it had at the time that Mr E would be earning an annual income of around 
£20,000 after completing the course of study. 
Given the substantial amount in relation to his future projected income, Asset Link needed to 
carry out checks that were proportionate. As such Im satisfied proportionate checks in this 
instance wouldve included obtaining a reasonable understanding of Mr Es circumstances.
As part of its checks, Asset Link also considered Mr Es likely future income. Asset Link has
told us about the various data sources it used to help predict this. We also know that 
Asset Link uses information from third parties, including educational institutions, in order to 
calculate the likely salary. This was considered alongside what Asset Link already knew 
about Mr Es existing credit commitments, which was chiefly his existing student loan. 
Ive thought about all this information and in this instance, Im satisfied its prediction of 
Mr Es affordability was proportionate. As Ive said, based on Mr Es course of study and the 
professional qualification hed gain at the end of it, it predicted his likely income at the end of 
the course to be around £20,000 per year. Considering what Asset Link knew about Mr Es 
planned course of study and career, this figure seems fair and reasonable. It may be different if the salary predicted was unreasonably high, but I consider the projected salary 
was in line with the likely starting salaries. So Im satisfied it was reasonable to rely on it.
It follows that I think Asset Link was entitled to rely on the future predicted earnings of Mr E 
when completing its assessment. Ultimately it has demonstrated that it has come to a 
reasonable figure, based on different sources of information. And it was exercising 
reasonable initial forbearance measures, such as by setting low, nominal payments during 
Mr Es period of study, until such time that Mr E ought reasonably to have achieved the 
predicted income. Im therefore satisfied that Asset Link has acted fairly and in line with the 
relevant rules at the point it made the initial lending decision.
It follows that Im also satisfied that Asset Link completed reasonable and proportionate
checks before approving the loan. So Ive concluded that it made a fair decision to lend.
The information which Asset Link gathered at the time demonstrated that Mr E would likely
be able to afford the repayments during and after his studies had been completed. It had a
reasonable prediction of what the future income and outgoings would be and these
demonstrated the loan was likely affordable. Asset Link was also entitled to rely on the 
information which Mr E provided and there doesnt appear to be any contradictory 
information which suggested it shouldnt. So Im satisfied it made a fair decision to lend.
Did Asset Link act fairly when the higher repayments became due?
Mr E also told us he was struggling to meet the higher repayments that were payable under 
the terms of the loan, particularly in light of the fact that he didnt go on to complete the 
course and then move on to have the career hed been planning to start.
The higher payments were due to begin in August 2018. Mr E requested and obtained at 
least two payment holidays  in late 2018 and another early in 2019 - before starting to make 
the higher payments. This was because he had started working on a part time basis at a 
lower wage than he would likely have received if hed completed the course and obtained 
employment. Im therefore satisfied that Asset Link was aware of Mr Es financial situation 
and took steps to address it by offering forbearance help in this way. 
It follows that, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that Asset Link acted fairly 
when approving Mr E for this loan. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr E. I would of course like to 
remind Asset Link of its ongoing responsibilities to work with Mr E to reach an affordable and 
sustainable repayment plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman