DRN-4243928
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Santander Consumer (UK) Plcs actions when he exchanged 
one financed vehicle for another.
What happened
In 2021, Mr M took out a finance agreement for a car. Then, in 2022, he decided to 
exchange this car for another. Mr M expected the dealership to settle the finance on the first 
agreement, when he took out the second. But, this didnt happen, meaning Mr M had two 
live agreements.
Santander told Mr M hed still need to keep up his repayments under the first agreement, or 
his credit file could be affected. So, Mr M contacted the dealership, which responded to say 
it would arrange to settle the finance. However, this still didnt happen, and it appears the 
dealership is no longer trading. Santander is now pursuing him for the balance, and hes 
received a court summons.
Mr M complained to Santander, but it said it wasnt at fault, and that the dealership was 
responsible for making the settlement payment.
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. In particular, he took into account section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. This covers a finance providers liability for antecedent negotiations between a 
consumer and a credit broker or supplier. In this case, that would be Santanders liability for 
what the dealership said to Mr M before he entered into the second finance agreement.
Santander (through its legal representative) has said it doesnt consider that section 56 
applies here. This is because section 56 covers the entry into finance agreements. In this 
case, Mr M was arranging the exit from an agreement, as he was arranging for its 
settlement.
Our investigator said that, although Mr M was arranging to end one agreement, he was also 
entering into a new one. Our investigator said that it was reasonable to say that a discussion 
about settling the finance on the first agreement, was part of the process of entering into the 
second one. He also referred to evidence provided by Mr M where the dealership referred to 
a swap over  suggesting that Mr M was looking to exchange one car and its 
accompanying finance agreement, for another.
Santanders legal representative also said that Mr M was the only party liable to settle the 
finance. Our investigator said that Mr M shouldnt face detriment, because of something the 
dealership had said  and that Santander, as finance provider, was responsible for.
Accordingly, our investigator said he thought Santander needed to put things right. He 
recommended it should:
write off the outstanding balance from the first finance agreement;
amend Mr Ms credit file, to remove any adverse information recorded in respect of 
the first finance agreement; and
pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander didnt agree. It said:
the outstanding finance on the first car should be refunded to Mr M through the 
dealerships liquidators, not Santander;
Santander wasnt party to the agreement made between the dealership and Mr M, 
and so cannot be held liable for funds due under that agreement, and which arent 
included in the finance agreement it has with Mr M; and
Santander cannot remove any negative markers placed on Mr Ms credit file by 
another finance provider.
The complaint was then passed to me to look at afresh. I agreed with our investigator that 
Santander should put things right, but thought the redress should be slightly different. I 
explained why. I said as follows.
---
Taking into account section 56, Im satisfied that its reasonable to hold Santander 
accountable for antecedent negotiations between Mr M and the dealership. I accept that the 
finance related to settling the previous agreement, but the settlement of this finance is  in 
my view  inextricably linked to Mr M entering into the second agreement. I cannot see that 
he would have done so, if he hadnt been told the first agreement would be settled.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Santander should settle the previous agreement. It should also 
refund Mr M for any payments hes made towards the first agreement, after the date he 
entered into the second, with interest  as these also form part of the settlement the 
dealership agreed to pay.
It also follows, that Mr M shouldnt have negative markers on his credit file in respect of this. 
Santander has said it cant remove any negative markers placed on Mr Ms credit file by 
another finance provider. This is true, but Im unsure of the relevance of this here. Its my 
understanding that the first and second agreements were both made with Santander.
I can see this matter has caused Mr M significant upset, particularly as hes received a court 
summons. I think £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
appropriate here.
---
Neither Mr M nor Santander had any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my thoughts in my provisional decision. As neither party had anything to add, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Accordingly, my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should:
refund Mr M any monthly repayments he made under the first finance agreement, 
after the date he entered into the second agreement, adding 8% simple interest a 
year, from the date of each repayment to the date of settlement;
write off the outstanding balance from the first finance agreement;
amend Mr Ms credit file, to remove any adverse information recorded in respect of 
the first finance agreement; and
pay Mr M £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take 
the actions set out above, in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman