DRN-1598705
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in October 2002. 
Mr C, who is represented by a third party, says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
Mr C took out the credit card by post. He says the PPI was added without his knowledge and 
the cost made it difficult to keep up his regular payments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered everything Mr C and NatWest have said and given to us, to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in this case. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide for himself if it 
was right for him.
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. I say this taking into account that Mr C decided to buy the policy when he applied 
for the cover by post. Ive seen from the copy of the form NatWest sent us that Mr C ticked a 
box to take it out on the form. So he had time to make his decision about whether he wanted 
to have PPI with the card. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But from what Ive seen he chose to take out the PPI - so I think its more likely he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover - so 
it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
I say this having taken into account that Mr C told us he was entitled to some sick pay from 
his employer if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness, as well as some savings. But 
the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due 
to accident or sickness or were he to lose his job. It also meant he wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding - such as savings - to help out. So I dont think better information 
bout the PPI would have put Mr C off taking out the cover. 
The PPI also looks like it was affordable. Ive seen from Mr Cs monthly credit card 
statements that they showed PPI charges in the month immediately after he took the card 
out  and this would have continued in the months that followed. I think if he hadnt wanted 
PPI hed have questioned these charges at some point with NatWest. So although I dont 
doubt Mr Cs recollections are genuinely held, I think its more likely hed agreed to have the 
PPI with his new card.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So NatWest doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C paid for it. But NatWest has already offered to give Mr C back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
From what Ive seen, it looks as if NatWest has already paid this to Mr C. But if it hasnt for 
some reason, NatWest can make arrangements to pay the offer sum to Mr C now Ive issued 
my final decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already 
been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman