DRN-3686744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd hasnt 
fully settled a claim on their pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss pet was unwell and received veterinary treatment. The final bill was nearly 
£3300. But when it was presented to their pet insurers Casualty only offered just over £2500 
in settlement.
Mr and Mrs S accept some of the deductions are in line with the pet insurance policy terms. 
But theyre unhappy Casualty deduced £206.16 for the costs of fluid therapy. They said their 
vet had confirmed the therapy had been an essential part of the treatment. Theyre also 
unhappy Casualty deducted the costs of the consumable materials used during the 
treatment. So Mr and Mrs S would like Casualty to increase its settlement to include the two 
deductions.
Casualty said itd assessed and accepted Mr and Mrs Ss claim for their pets treatment. It 
explained certain deductions had been made where some of the costs had exceeded the 
limits set out in the policy. Casualty said the vets notes didnt confirm it was necessary for 
the pet to receive fluid therapy. So itd deducted £206.16 as it was considered an elective 
treatment in pets under the age of eight. 
The policy also excluded miscellaneous costs not directly related to the treatment including 
single-use items, non-medical items, cleaning supplies and other such costs. So Casualty 
was satisfied the amounts had been correctly deducted from the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with Casualtys response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see that the pets condition had been 
covered by the policy. So she looked at whether the exclusions had been fairly applied. 
After reviewing the policy documents our investigator felt Casualty had fairly excluded the 
costs of the consumables. But she noted that the vet had stated the fluid therapy had been a 
necessary part of the treatment. Although Casualty had responded that fluid therapy was a 
routine treatment  and therefore excluded  our investigator wasnt persuaded that was the 
case here. The therapy had been carried out while treating an illness. 
Our investigator couldnt see anywhere in the policy or product information document that 
fluid therapy was deemed elective for pets under eight. And she didnt think it was fair for 
Casualty to rely on this and exclude the costs. 
So to put things right she said Casualty should reimburse Mr and Mrs S with the fluid therapy 
costs paid to the vet and add 8% interest from the date the vets bill was paid to the date of 
settlement. 
Casualty referred to its underwriting conditions which stated it would deem fluid therapy to 
be a necessary part of a pets treatment and therefore considered a routine treatment. 
The terms and conditions didnt provide coverage for routine treatment except in extenuating 
circumstances, such as to save a pets life. But Casualty would look to cover those costs for 
older animals (over the age of eight) as they were more likely to suffer ill effects from 
sedation and surgeries.
As Casualty didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The pet insurance policy documents explain that, as with all insurance policies, there are 
exclusions and conditions that apply to the coverage. Mr and Mrs S accepted those 
exclusions when they entered into the contract of insurance. 
But Id expect Casualty to apply those exclusions fairly and reasonably. Ive looked carefully 
at everything Casualty has said. But with regards to cost of the fluid therapy I dont think it 
has.
Ive looked at the policy documentation and the insurance product information document 
which is designed to highlight the key terms of the policy and what is and isnt covered. I 
agree with our investigator that Casualty has correctly excluded the consumables under the 
exclusion stating any miscellaneous costs that do not directly relate to the treatment of an 
illness or accidental injury, including but not limited to single use items, non-medical items, 
cleaning supplies and other such costs that a vet may charge but are not directly related to 
the actual treatment of your pet.
Under what is not insured the policy also includes any claim for cosmetic, elective, or 
routine treatment or any treatment which is preventive and not treating an illness or 
accidental injury.
Casualty said it considered the fluid therapy to be elective treatment for pets under the age 
of eight. But Mr and Mrs S didnt think that was fair. So they contacted their vet who 
responded that the fluid therapy is part of the minimum standard of care in any animal 
undergoing general anaesthesia for contrast CT study.
Casualty says the underwriting criteria states that fluid therapy would be considered as a 
routine treatment thats included as part of other veterinary treatments. And the terms and 
conditions confirm it wouldnt provide coverage for routine treatments except under 
extenuating circumstances or for older pets where sedation and surgeries are more likely to 
cause ill effects. 
But that information isnt included in the policy documentation seen by the policyholders. Mr 
and Mrs S were unaware that fluid therapy would be deemed as either an elective or routine 
treatment. And I dont think its fair for Casualty to rely on something that wasnt in the policy 
documentation.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen I dont think Casualty has applied the exclusion in relation to fluid 
therapy fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. To put 
things right Casualty should reimburse Mr and Mrs S with the cost of £206.16 deducted from 
the claim settlement. And it should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs S paid the vets bill until the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £206.16 for the cost of fluid therapy
 Add 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs S paid the vets bill until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman