DRN-2937373
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the charges made by Vauxhall Finance plc when she returned a car 
she had taken on finance.    
What happened
In June 2016 Mrs O entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance. The car was only a few months old at the time. 
Under the agreement Mrs O could exercise a right to buy the car after four years or she 
could return it. The agreement required Mrs O to keep the car in good repair. If she chose to 
return it at the end of the finance agreement, Vauxhall Finance would charge her for any 
repairs needed  subject to normal wear and tear.  
Mrs O returned the car at the end of the finance agreement. An inspection was carried out at 
the time, part of it in Mrs Os presence. This identified some chips, scratches and scuffs. The 
inspector assessed the costs of repairing them at £535 and asked Mrs O to sign a form 
agreeing to pay. Mrs O refused to do so. 
Vauxhall Finance then contacted Mrs O seeking payment. She in turn asked for more 
information about the alleged damage. Vauxhall Finance said that it was awaiting the 
outcome of a further inspection from the auction house which would be selling the car. It 
later contacted her to say that it had assessed the damage at £349, nearly £200 less than 
the original estimate.   
Mrs O disputed this assessment. She noted that it had been prepared a month after she had 
returned the car. The photographs included in the report had been taken at the same time, 
so it was not fair to conclude that they represented the cars condition on its return. Mrs O 
nevertheless accepted some of the charges, totalling £152, but that left £197 in dispute. 
Those charges represented four chips or scratches (charged at £38 each) and a damaged 
door moulding (charged at £45). 
Mrs O referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. The investigator reviewed the inspection report, concentrating on the 
elements that were in dispute. Having done so, she took the view that two of the items 
charged for  a scratch to the nearside front door and a chip to the nearside front wing  
were not sufficiently serious to warrant a charge. Having regard to industry guidelines about 
what level of damage constitutes fair wear and tear, she thought that these two items should 
be removed. That represented a reduction of £76 in total. 
Vauxhall Finance accepted the investigators view, but Mrs O did not. She noted that the 
photographs had been taken a month after she had handed the car back, that the inspection 
paperwork did not reflect the initial inspection and that she had not been told that a second 
inspection would take place. The damage identified in the report did not correlate with what 
had been identified when she returned the car. She asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
I note that the inspection report that Vauxhall Finance relies on was carried out some time 
after Mrs O returned the car and that she was not told that there would be a second report. I 
understand why she thinks it would have been fair to give her the opportunity to attend the 
inspection. But I note too that the second report was advantageous to Mrs O  in that it 
concluded that she should pay less than the initial amount claimed. It also included 
photographs of the damage alleged, allowing her and this service to review its conclusions.
I note too that the two inspections did not reach identical conclusions about any damage. 
The real issue here however is what the cars condition was when it was returned. The best 
evidence of that is the inspection report and accompanying photographs.  
I cannot of course rule out the possibility that the car was damaged in the month between its 
return and the preparation of the condition report, although Mrs O does not directly suggest 
that. On balance, however, I think that is unlikely to have happened. 
I have reviewed the inspection report and, in particular, the photographs included in it. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that, of the five items in dispute, two appear to 
fall within the wear and tear exception and so Mrs O should not be charged for them. The 
remaining three however do represent damage for which Vauxhall Finance can properly 
charge.       
Putting things right
Although Vauxhall Finance has accepted the investigators conclusions, I will make a formal 
award requiring it to reduce the charges. That will enable Mrs O to enforce my award, should 
she need to do so.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that Vauxhall Finance Plc should reduce the charges 
it is seeking from Mrs O by £76.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman