DRN-2298739
The complaint
Mr S complains Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to him. 
He says 118 118 Money didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving his loan application.
What happened
Mr S was approved for a £2,000 loan by 118 118 Money in January 2015. The term of the 
loan was 24 months with repayments of approximately £160 per month.
Mr S complains 118 118 Money did not complete proportionate checks before approving the 
loan. He says had 118 118 Money completed its obligations to him properly it wouldve seen 
the loan was unaffordable and not have lent it. He says he has lost out financially because of 
118 118 Moneys failures as he has had to pay additional interest and charges.
118 118 Money has defended its decision to lend. It says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. It says it asked Mr S to provide details of his income and expenditure, 
as well as checking Mr S credit file. It says these checks are proportionate as they covered 
his main financial commitments and did not show any markers which wouldve prompted it to 
not lend. 118 118 Money says the information it received demonstrated the loan was 
affordable to Mr S and as such its decision to lend was fair.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint be upheld. She agreed with Mr S that 
118 118 Money had not completed reasonable and proportionate checks, and that 118 118 
Money shouldve done more at the time. However, Mr S was unable to provide us any 
supporting information to show what further checks wouldve likely demonstrated, and in the 
absence of such information, our investigator was unable to conclude the loan was 
unaffordable to Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and as no agreement could be reached the matter has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision on. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Mr S complains 118 118 Money did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
when it lent to him. He says further checks wouldve shown the loan was unaffordable and 
as such 118 118 Money wouldnt have lent to him. Ive considered Mr S argument, but 
ultimately I disagree that this complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator explained in her opinion to both parties that she agreed with Mr S in the 
sense that 118 118 Money had not completed reasonable and proportionate checks. In 
particular she felt the checks which 118 118 Money completed highlighted that Mr S mayve 
had some issues managing credit in the past, and as such further checks shouldve been 
completed.
Having reviewed the file, Im in agreement with this finding too. That is to say I dont think 
118 118 Money completed proportionate checks in this instance. I say this because the 
checks which were completed (an income and expenditure assessment and search of Mr S 
credit file), highlighted some potential issues with Mr S finances. The credit file search 
showed that Mr S had a historic default for a nominal amount of money, and that there was a  
small overdrawn balance on his current account without an arranged facility in place. Whilst 
defaults and exceeding credit limits in themselves arent necessarily enough to decline an 
application; Im satisfied these markers indicate the consumer had issues with their finances 
in the past, and therefore may potentially have issues managing credit. That persuades me 
118 118 Money shouldve looked further into Mr S finances to understand if the loan was 
affordable to him. So, Im satisfied 118 118 Money did not complete proportionate checks in 
this instance.
As proportionate checks werent completed, I have to consider what the further checks 
wouldve shown, and if they wouldve shown if the loan was affordable to Mr S from the 
outset. Our service has asked for Mr S to provide further information such as copies of his 
bank statements, however he hasnt been able to do so. He has been able to provide us with 
a different copy of his credit file. So, in the absence of any other information Ive based my 
findings on the information we have on file, including the information Mr S provided at the 
point of applying for the loan.
Having done so, Im not persuaded there is enough information to suggest that the loan was 
unaffordable to Mr S. The information Mr S has provided is a more recent copy of his credit 
file; and as such shows different markers than that of the search 118 118 Money completed 
at the time. Im also not persuaded 118 118 Money wouldve asked for a further credit file 
search considering it had already completed one. I will also point out that 118 118 Money is 
entitled to rely on the information which Mr S provided at the time, as well as the information 
it obtained via the credit file search.
These searches showed that the loan was seemingly affordable to Mr S. The credit file 
which was obtained at the time, whilst showing a historic default and small overdrawn 
balance, does indicate the rest of Mr S credit was being maintain reasonably well (there had 
been some missed payments prior to the application). However, there isnt any indication 
that the monthly amount wasnt affordable to Mr S based on the income assessment he 
submitted. And in the absence of such information which can demonstrate this wasnt the 
case, Im not persuaded it was unaffordable to him. 
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome, but I should explain I need consider 
whether 118 118 Money wouldve still lent based on the further checks it shouldve done. 
And as there was no information which wouldve demonstrated the loan was unaffordable, 
Im satisfied it wouldve still lent to Mr S. And on that basis, Im satisfied this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman