DRN-3768003
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line mishandled his motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from late December 2020, Mr M had a vehicle insured with UKI.
In March 2021, a third partys insurer contacted UKI to make a claim that Mr M had caused 
damage to the third partys vehicle in February 2021.
In October 2021, UKI told Mr M that it had reviewed images of the damage to each of the 
vehicles  and UKI would be accepting that Mr M had been at fault. Mr M didnt agree with 
that.
For the year from late December 2021, Mr M had third party, fire and theft (TPFT) cover from 
UKI. This was based on zero no claims discount (NCD) and one claim. The cover cost over 
£2,000.00.
On 14 March 2022, Mr M contacted UKI and it told him that the third partys insurers hadnt 
responded so UKI hadnt settled the claim. UKI said it would close the claim as information 
only.
On 17 March 2022, UKI said it would adjust Mr Ms premium and he would receive a refund 
of nearly £200.00.
Mr M complained to UKI that hed renewed the policy believing that it had recorded a fault 
claim against him  and the premium was still too high.
By a (first) final response dated 22 March 2022, UKI turned down the complaint.
On 25 March 2022, Mr M made a further complaint to UKI about how it had spoken to him.
By a (second) final response dated 14 April 2022, UKI acknowledged that one of its agents 
had given a response that was impolite.
Mr M brought both complaints to us without delay. He asked for UKI to give him 
comprehensive cover for under £1,800.00.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
UKI had done anything wrong. She said that the information in October 2021 was correct. 
She said that UKI issued a refund for the difference in premiums. She didnt think that UKI 
spoke to Mr M  in an unprofessional manner. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that
His car had damage when he bought it.
UKI shouldnt have treated him as at fault.
UKI shouldve told him sooner that the claim was going from open to information 
only.
He couldve got a better deal from another insurer in December 2021.
The manager he spoke with (on about 22 March 2022) told him incorrectly that the 
claims department still had the claim open.
An agent then told him that they were unaware of the manager's whereabouts as 
they didn't follow him into the bathroom.
UKI should change his cover from TPFT to comprehensive - and give back some of 
the money.
We should direct compensation for distress or inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator of insurance companies in the UK. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint in line with the 
FCAs dispute resolution rules (DISP).
When a third party makes a claim against a policyholder, its common practice for insurers  
to treat that as an open claim or a fault claim against that policyholder, unless and until the 
claim is resolved in favour of that policyholder.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim from a third party.
UKIs policy terms included the following such term:
When we can act on your behalf
Were entitled to do either of the following:
> Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
The effect of that term was that  on a question of how to deal with a third partys claim -
UKIs view would prevail over Mr Ms.
Im satisfied that UKI took into account what Mr M had said. But the third party had made a 
claim and UKI was duty- bound to respond to it.Im satisfied that UKI took into account the nature and location of damage to each of the 
vehicles. In October 2021, UKI intended to settle the claim in favour of the third party, not in 
favour of Mr M. 
UKI was expecting the third party insurer to provide details of its outlay. So I dont consider 
that UKI couldve closed the claim without waiting for such details.
I accept UKIs evidence that after contacting the third partys insurer in October 2021, it 
would  in line with its usual practice  wait for up to six months for details of the outlay.
So UKI was still waiting in December 2021. I dont consider that UKI needed to update Mr M.
Mr M didnt have to renew with UKI. He couldve taken out a policy with another insurer  but 
he would still have had an open claim against him.
Different insurers assess future risk and set premiums in different ways. Many insurers  
consider any claim as a risk factor, and more so if its a fault claim.
When Mr M got in touch in mid-March 2022, UKI decided it had waited long enough to hear 
from the third partys insurer. So it closed the claim as information only.
Ive reviewed the call recordings.
I accept that  on 22 March 2022  a manager told Mr M that the claim was still open. Later 
Mr M wanted to speak again with the manager. An agent said the following words:
Hes not at his desk so whether hes left for the day or hes just gone to bathroom I
really dont know.
Whilst I accept that Mr M was offended, I dont consider that this is something for which it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay compensation.
Im satisfied that UKI re-calculated the premium in line with closing the claim as information 
only  and it refunded Mr M the difference. 
Importantly, UKI also gave Mr M the option to cancel the UKI policy from mid-March 2022. in 
that case we wouldve expected UKI to credit the remaining charge for the period from mid-
March to late December 2022. 
So Mr M couldve taken out a new policy with another insurer based on the updated 
information that the claim had been recorded as information only.
Instead, Mr M chose to continue the policy with UKI. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to change its TPFT coverage to comprehensive or to refund any more of the 
premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.  
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman