DRN-3407575
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he was tricked into transferring to 
a fraudster.
 
What happened
Mr H became involved with what he believed to be a genuine investment opportunity. He 
was shown a trading platform that he says used algorithms to place trades on his behalf. 
After a small initial deposit of £300 in early 2020, Mr H was encouraged to deposit increasing 
sums with the fraudsters.
Mr Hs investments seemed to be doing well until March 2021, when his balance suddenly 
dropped and he started having difficulty contacting the investment company. Mr H asked to 
withdraw his money but was told it was unsafe to do so. Within a couple of weeks his 
investment had been reduced to nothing.
Unfortunately for Mr H, he hadnt been dealing with a genuine investment company, but 
fraudsters.
From his account at Lloyds he made five payments totalling £14,693.70 to the fraudsters  a 
mixture of international payments and those made through Open Banking. 
Mr H reported the matter to Lloyds, but it said that it couldnt refund the payments he made 
as, though it is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code, which requires firms to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, the payments Mr H made werent covered as they were either 
international payments or made through Open Banking and to a cryptocurrency wallet held 
in Mr Hs name.
It also didnt think that the activity which took place on Mr Hs account was particularly out of 
the ordinary, so it had no reason to intervene before allowing the payments to take place.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
agreed that the payments werent covered by the CRM Code and there was no reason for 
Lloyds to find them suspicious as Mr H had made payments of similar amounts to the 
disputed payments. 
Mr Hs representatives disagreed. In summary, they said:
- Banks ought to have been aware of the risk of cryptocurrency trading since at least 
the middle of 2018 and ought to have found new payments made to cryptocurrency 
providers suspicious.
- Though Mr H had made payments of similar amounts to the ones in dispute, all those 
payments were to accounts in his own name and wouldnt carry the same risk as a 
payment to a new international payee or cryptocurrency website.
- By January 2021, Mr H had made a series of high value payments to international 
payees and a cryptocurrency website. This ought to have caused the bank concern.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr H authorised the payments in dispute. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
But thats not the end of the story. Ive first considered whether the payments should be 
considered under the CRM Code. 
Theres little dispute that international payments are excluded from the Code. Open Banking 
was used to make the other payments. In practical terms this meant the faster payment from 
Mr Hs Lloyds account was initiated by him from the cryptocurrency providers own platform.
Ive reviewed the cryptocurrency providers platform and it appears to be a cryptocurrency 
exchange. It does not appear to hold customer funds or cryptocurrency. Therefore its likely 
that rather than Mr Hs using the payment as a way of funding an account in his own name, 
he instructed the cryptocurrency provider to transfer cryptocurrency to an external wallet 
held by either himself or the fraudster. 
To be covered by the CRM a payment must be a faster payment, CHAPS or internal book 
transfer between UK-domiciled, GBP accounts. In this case, though the first step (from Mr 
Hs bank account to the cryptocurrency provider) does meet this criteria, the second step 
(from the cryptocurrency provider to him or the fraudster) does not. As such, the payments 
are not covered by the CRM Code.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered the circumstances of this case carefully and Im sympathetic towards Mr Hs 
circumstances. 
I accept that firms like Santander have been aware of the risk of cryptocurrency trading for 
some time and that it should be alive to the risk of scams associated with cryptocurrency. 
But that doesnt mean that it should question its customer about every transaction to a 
cryptocurrency provider. Instead, it should do so where it identifies a transaction that is 
otherwise out of character and unusual for that particular customer. Ive looked at Mr Hs statements over the period of the scam, and six months before the first 
payment. Mr Hs spending is generally quite modest and the balance of his account rarely 
exceeds £1,000, but Mr H very frequently, often more than once a day, moves money 
between his accounts. His statements show that this account was often funded by another of 
his accounts. One of those accounts  his Online Saver was used to fund the disputed 
payments. On each occasion credits were received from the Online Saver and sent on as 
part of the fraud. So, while the amounts of the disputed transactions might have been 
greater than other, legitimate, transactions  the activity was consistent with the established 
pattern of funding this account from a savings account and sending that money on. 
I also note that there were two payments in the six months before February 2020 that 
exceeded the size of the first disputed payment (though these appear to be domestic, rather 
than international payments).
Even so, considering those transactions and the size of the first payment, I dont think the 
fact it was to a new international beneficiary made it remarkable enough for the bank to have 
reasonably believed that Mr H was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Neither was it 
followed by additional payments of a similar type and nature for almost a year. 
By the time the second payment took place almost a year later, Mr H had made a similar 
payment the year before for a similar amount. Although the third payment was for a larger 
amount, it went to an existing payee  the same payee that had been paid about a week 
before. While a series of payments to a new payee might be indicative of a scam, there was 
a reasonably significant gap between these two payments.
Turning to the payments made via Open Banking to a cryptocurrency provider. These 
payments were of similar amounts to payments by Mr H in the past and were not obviously 
connected to the earlier international payments. So, I dont think these payments, nor the 
pattern of activity overall was sufficiently concerning that Lloyds ought to have intervened 
before allowing the payments to proceed.
In relation to recovery, I understand the payments made through Open Banking were 
converted into cryptocurrency and paid to a fraudster. Therefore, I dont think there was any 
realistic possibility of recovery. 
Lloyds did attempt to recover the three international payments, but the responses from the 
banks involved either said that the money had already been removed or that they would 
seek the permission of their account holder in order to recover it. So, I dont think Lloyds 
could have done any more in this regard. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H, but I dont think Lloyds have made a mistake 
by declining to refund these transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman