DRN-4056089
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F was involved in an incident and he made a claim to his insurer, esure. esure settled Mr 
Fs claim by paying the market value for his car as it declared it a total loss. 
Mr F complained to esure. He said he repeatedly asked about keeping his car but esure 
didnt reply. He didnt cash its cheque payments for the market value for this reason. He said 
the delays esure caused in its handling of his claim and failure to prevent his car salvage 
from being sold had a significant impact on his health and daily living. 
esure upheld Mr Fs complaint. It accepted that despite requests from Mr F, it failed to 
respond in time to his request to have his car returned to him. It said it couldnt change 
things as his car had been sold. So to compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, it paid him £250. 
Mr F didnt think this was enough, so he asked us to look at his complaint. He said that the 
salvage agent had caused additional damage to his car and this damage was the difference 
between his car being repairable and a total loss. 
Our Investigator thought the valuation esure had reached wasnt enough and recommended 
it be increased. He asked esure to pay the difference with interest. 
He thought the compensation esure had paid was reasonable for the delay and poor service 
it had provided. The Investigator found that the costs to repair Mr Fs car excluding any 
damage caused by the salvage agent meant it was a total loss in any event. 
The Investigator thought Mr F could have tried to mitigate his losses by cashing his cheques 
from 27 May 2022 to enable him to buy a replacement car as this was when his car was 
declared a total loss - and esure had explained that Mr F wouldnt be prevented from taking 
his complaint further by cashing in the cheques. 
But Mr F explained that up until 22 June 2022 he had repeatedly asked to have his car 
returned to him, but esure didnt follow this up. esure did however tell him that if he cashed 
the cheques he couldnt request the return of his car, as it would no longer be his property. 
For this reason he was unable to cash the cheques as he wanted his car to be returned to 
him. 
The Investigator found Mr Fs response persuasive. He thought that from 22 June 2022 
when Mr F was told his car had been sold, this was the point when Mr F could have used the 
cheques to buy a replacement car to mitigate his losses - as esure said nothing more could 
be done. But he thought esure should pay Mr F for loss of use at £10 a day from 27 May 
2022 to 22 June 2022 as it failed to respond to his request to have his car returned to him 
during this time. 
esure didnt agree. It said it doesnt provide a courtesy car when a car has been declared a 
total loss - and so the same should apply in relation to loss of use. 
Mr F said he agreed with the increase in the valuation. But he didnt agree the compensation 
for loss of use was enough. He said he would provide us with evidence of his losses during 
the time he was without a car. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2023. I didnt think the total loss settlement should 
be increased, but agreed with the remaining recommendations by the Investigator. 
Mr F didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
esure didnt agree. It reiterated that it shouldnt pay any award for loss of use. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out under my provisional decision, I was sorry to read of the impact the handling of 
his claim has had on Mr F. My role is to take an even handed approach to the information 
provided by both parties and decide if esure has acted reasonably. 
Having to make a claim will inevitably involve some disruption and inconvenience. In Mr Fs 
case, his car was declared a total loss and so he was invariably going to have a period 
where he was without a car and make interim arrangements until he was in a position to buy 
a replacement. Mr Fs policy with esure has a common term which says it will provide a 
courtesy car where a car is repairable, but not if it is declared a total loss. 
The incident happened on 14 April 2022. While there is no set time for an insurer to pay a 
market valuation, I think a reasonable expectation is for this to take around two weeks: to 
give an insurer time to arrange for a car to be moved to an approved repairer and for an 
engineer to make an assessment on whether a car can be repaired or not. 
I think the valuation the Investigator used in his view was the first lower valuation by esure of 
£1,778. However, I understand esure made two cheque payments as it increased the market 
valuation to £1,928. According to its complaints notes on 31 May 2022, it arranged for a 
second payment to be sent, bringing the final settlement sum to £1,928 After deducting the 
excess due of £300, this left a total loss payment of £1,628.
Our Investigator looked at the main motor trade guides and found they provided valuations 
of £2,569, £1,890, £1,829. So he recommended esure pay the difference in the average of 
these valuations which came to £2,096, adding interest at our recommended rate of 8% 
simple interest a year. 
Both parties accepted the Investigators recommendation here. However, where one 
valuation is out of kilter with the others, irrespective of whether it is lower or higher, our 
approach is to discount it. In this case, the valuation of £2,569 is out of kilter with the other 
two. So having considered all of the available information, I think esures total loss 
settlement of £1,928 is reasonable as it is higher than the remaining guides. This means Im 
not asking esure to increase the total loss settlement it paid to Mr F. 
The engineer provided an estimate of repairs to Mr Fs car - excluding any damage caused 
by the salvage agent - and this came to over 80% of the market value of the car. I 
understand Mr F is upset that the salvage agent caused additional damage - but because Mr 
Fs car wasnt returned to him - the outcome in respect of what esure should pay is the 
same. The most esure will pay in the event of a claim is the market value for a car at the 
time of loss.
esure accepts that it failed to deal with Mr Fs requests to have his car returned to him. And 
because of his request, I can understand why Mr F didnt cash the cheques he received from 
esure up until 22 June 2022. He was waiting for a response to his request to have his car returned to him - and cashing of the cheques would have constituted an acceptance of esure 
as the owner of the salvage. 
So I think esures poor service here prevented Mr F from mitigating his losses from 27 May 
2022 - up until he discovered on 22 June 2022 that his car had been sold. From this point Mr 
Fs car was not recoverable and I think Mr F was in a position to mitigate his losses.
I think the compensation esure has paid goes some way to putting things right. Theres no 
dispute that esure provide a poor service to Mr F in its handing of his claim. The decision to 
sell Mr Fs car as salvage caused distress and upset over and above what would be 
reasonable when dealing with a claim.  
I think esures failure to respond to Mr Fs requests to retain his car from 27 May 2022 to 22 
June 2022 was unreasonable. Had he accepted the total loss payment(s) I agree with his 
view that he would have lost his right to retain the car. So I think esure is responsible for Mr 
Fs loss of use during this period. 
esure says it doesnt provide a courtesy car in the event of a total loss claim. I agree. But the 
loss of use award is for the failure by esure to respond to Mr Fs request to have his car 
returned to him at the point it made a total loss settlement. This is what Mr F wanted, was 
reasonably entitled to do, and had esure provided a prompt response, he would have been 
able to collect his car. Because esure didnt respond, and Mr F would have prejudiced his 
right to ownership of the car if hed accepted the payment, I think this is a fair way to put 
things right. 
Mr F told us that he relied heavily on the use of his car for work and to socialise and being 
without it for longer than reasonable had a significant effect. He said he struggled to be on 
time for work when relying on public transport, he missed planned social events and wasnt 
able to enjoy the freedom of having use of a car. He said the stress of dealing with esure, 
where he says it never offered updates on his claim, where he had to repeatedly contact it 
for information and chase, had a negative effect on his mental and physical health. 
I think the compensation esure paid of £250 is within the range we would award for similar 
cases. I will reconsider this issue if Mr F provides persuasive evidence to show why the loss 
of use award of £10 a day with £250 compensation esure paid isnt enough. Ive also 
considered that - had Mr F retained his car - he would have to make alternative 
arrangements while it was repaired and made roadworthy again in any event. 
I therefore think a fair outcome is for esure to pay Mr F £10 a day for loss of use from 27 
May 2022 to 22 June 2022. I think this - along with the compensation its paid of £250 - is 
enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
oPay Mr F £10 a day for loss of use from 27 May 2022 to 22 June 2022. 
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman