DRN-4278084
The complaint
Mrs G complains Barclays Bank UK Plc lost a Barclaysafe wallet that it had been holding 
for her. 
Mrs G brings this complaint with the help of her daughter who is also her attorney under a 
Power of Attorney (POA). 
Mrs G doesnt think Barclays has compensated her for the value of the items inside the 
wallet or for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mrs G had been using the banks Barclaysafe service for several decades. This is a service 
available to account holders, allowing them to deposit paper documents inside a wallet. The 
wallet is stored by the bank in return for a fee.
In July 2022, Mrs Gs daughter was registering the POA when Barclays told her that it was 
discontinuing with the service. It said there were two options. Either the wallet could be sent 
to a home address or to a branch. Mrs Gs daughter opted for delivery to a branch. 
Mrs Gs daughter became concerned when the wallet hadnt arrived. The bank investigated 
and found that the carrier it had used to send the wallet hadnt delivered it to the branch (due 
to it being closed on the day in question).  Instead, the wallet had been delivered to a 
neighbouring business and signed for by one of its employees. 
The manager of the business didnt know what had happened to the wallet and the person 
who signed for it couldnt remember what they had done with it. 
Mrs Gs daughter raised a complaint  she was very upset. She told Barclays that she 
thought there may potentially be a signed print by a famous artist in the wallet as it couldnt 
be located  anywhere else.
Barclays upheld the complaint and offered to pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused but it didnt offer anymore, because it said that it couldnt be certain what was in the 
wallet. Mrs G didnt think the offer of compensation went far enough and referred her 
complaint to us. She said Barclays had caused a loss of many thousands. 
One of our investigators took a look into what had happened. But he didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anymore. He found it was difficult to establish any further liability given there 
wasnt anything persuasive to support what was in the wallet.
Mrs G (via her daughter) asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been a good deal of discussion during the investigation about the terms and 
conditions of the Barclaysafe service. I can certainly see why this issue was explored, but I 
dont think it has any real impact upon the central issues. As Barclays accepts the wallet was 
lost as a result of the actions of its agents. The relevant question is what its liable for and 
this has to come back to what was in the wallet. 
If Mrs G was to submit a claim on an insurance policy or take her claim to court, shed be 
expected to provide supporting evidence of what was in the wallet to demonstrate her loss. 
Her daughter believes there may have been a signed art print by a famous artist because 
her mother met the artist. She also remembers seeing the piece as a child. But in my view, 
this isnt enough to say the artwork was in the wallet. 
Perhaps if there was some documentary evidence, such as, photographs, evidence of 
authentication or insurance issued in the past, that may point to Mrs G having owned the 
signed print. And it might be a starting point but even that wouldnt be proof it was put in the 
wallet for safe keeping. 
I appreciate due to Mrs Gs age and health she cant give us any information. But her 
daughter has referenced the piece and remembers seeing it as a child. Given this, and the 
potential value of such a thing, I would have also expected to see a lot more certainty if it 
was in the wallet, not least because of any family conversations about it over the passing 
years. However, Mrs Gs daughter cant be sure  she told Barclays that it may have been in 
the wallet because it couldnt be located anywhere else. 
Thinking about the lack of evidence and particularly any persuasive evidence, I wont be 
asking Barclays to compensate Mrs G for the item she and her daughter believe has been 
lost.  For the reasons Ive given, there isnt any sound basis for such an award. 
I accept theres likely to have been some documents in the wallet given the purpose of the 
service and the fact that it was being used. But as Ive alluded to, I cant attach a value to 
items without any detail and supporting evidence. 
I appreciate the emotional distress on the family. But our service doesnt make awards to 
third parties, for example, attorneys and family members. We can only make an award to the 
customer. The loss of the wallet will have undoubtedly caused Mrs G some distress and 
inconvenience. But thinking about all of this, I think the banks apology and offer to pay £300 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Finally, Ive noted the request to refund all of the fees paid over the years for the safe 
keeping service. However, I dont consider its equitable to require the bank to refund them. 
Those fees were paid for a service, which Mrs G received (albeit up to the point the wallet 
left the banks property).
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mrs G £300 (unless it has already 
done so). I make no other award or direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman