DRN-3975091
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) was unfair to record a 
default on his credit file when the other party to his mortgage stopped making payments. 
What happened
Mr C had a joint mortgage with Clydesdale. He says the other mortgage account holder lived 
at the property and made the monthly payments. 
Clydesdale agreed payment deferrals for May to October 2020, in accordance with guidance 
issued by the regulator during the Covid-19 pandemic. No payments were made into the 
mortgage account after that. Mr C says he wasnt aware of this until late January 2021. 
Clydesdale called Mr C in early February 2021 asking him to agree a payment plan to 
address the arrears. Mr C says Clydesdale wouldnt switch the mortgage to interest only 
payments while there were arrears. He says he wasnt able to clear the arrears as he has 
another mortgage. Mr C told Clydesdale he intended to get a court order for the sale of the 
property. 
The mortgage was repaid in mid-2022. Clydesdale had recorded a default on Mr Cs credit 
file in mid-2021, and Mr C asks that Clydesdale removes this.
Clydesdale said it wasnt part of its process to notify all account holders when a payment 
deferral was agreed during the pandemic. And as both account holders are responsible for 
payments it said it was correct to record the default on Mr Cs credit file. It said it should 
have told Mr C about the arrears which accrued after the payment deferral and paid £75 
compensation for not doing so.
Our investigator said the compensation was fair. He said Clydesdale didnt record a default 
on Mr Cs credit file until May 2021, three months after Mr C was made aware of the arrears. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said hes never lived at the security property and was only made 
aware of the missed payments shortly before the call with Clydesdale in early February 
2021. He says if Clydesdale had contacted him sooner hed have asked for a switch to 
interest only payments before arrears built up. This would have made payments affordable 
while he sought a court order for the property to be sold. Mr C says Clydesdale didnt give 
him notice prior to recording the default and if it had hed have paid the arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C doesnt dispute that he is jointly and severally liable for the mortgage, and that means 
Clydesdale can ask him for payments. He says Clydesdale hasnt treated him fairly.
The regulator issued guidance intended to support mortgage borrowers during the Covid-19 
pandemic. Lenders were asked to put payment deferrals in place quickly and with minimal 
formality. I cant fairly find that Clydesdale made an error when it agreed to put a payment 
deferral in place in 2020. In accordance with the regulators guidance no adverse data was 
recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this. 
The payment deferral ended in October 2020. No payments made into the mortgage account 
between November 2020 and May 2021. 
Clydesdale called Mr C in early February 2021. By this time three monthly payments had 
been missed. Mr C said hed only found out about the arrears the previous week. Mr C 
asked about putting the mortgage onto interest only payments while he sought a court order 
to sell the property. Clydesdale said there were options it could look into to support 
customers, but these were more limited when the account was in arrears. Clydesdale 
wanted to put an affordable arrangement in place. It said if this was maintained for three 
months it could look at options even if arrears hadnt been cleared.
Clydesdale recorded a default on Mr Cs credit file in May 2021. The mortgage was repaid in 
June 2022. Mr C says it was unfair for Clydesdale to record the default, and it didnt tell him 
beforehand this would happen. 
In effect, Mr C is saying hed have acted differently if Clydesdale had given him better 
information. He says if hed known in late 2020 that payments werent being made hed have 
asked Clydesdale to switch to interest only payments. And if it had told him that it would 
record a default hed have made repayments to avoid this.
Mr C was in a difficult position. He was jointly liable for a mortgage secured on a property he 
didnt live in. Mr C says if he made payments the other account holder wouldnt have moved 
out of the property. Nonetheless, he says hed have made the payments if hed known that 
not doing so would result in a default on his credit file. 
Banks have a responsibility to report accurate and up to date information to the credit 
reference agencies. Mr C was jointly liable for a mortgage. No payments were made into the 
account for six months, and Mr C hadnt agreed a payment plan. I dont think it was 
inaccurate or unfair for Clydesdale to record that the account was in default. 
I dont think I can fairly find that Mr C would have acted differently if hed been told about the 
missed payments in late 2020. 
First, Mr C said his income was affected by the pandemic. I dont know if hed have been in a 
position to make payments to Clydesdale, even on an interest only basis, if hed known 
about the arrears in late 2020. 
Second, I must take into account what steps Mr C took once he was aware of the arrears. 
While Clydesdale said in February 2021 it wouldnt consider a switch to interest only 
payments due to the arrears, it did also say it could look into options if a payment plan was 
maintained for three months. Mr C could have discussed this further with Clydesdale, if he 
wanted to put affordable payments in place while he looked into options, such as the sale of 
the property. 
Third, its unlikely Clydesdale would have recorded a default if Mr C had agreed and 
maintained a payment plan. It didnt record the default until May 2021. During this time, Mr C 
didnt make payments into the mortgage account or agree a payment plan with Clydesdale. 
Clydesdale says (despite what its final response letter said) its usual process is to only send 
correspondence to the property address. So it didnt sent arrears letters to Mr C. I appreciate 
that Mr C might not have known that Clydesdale would record a default in May 2021. But when Clydesdale spoke to Mr C in February 2021 it said it had to call him as the arrears 
were impacting both customers credit files. I think Mr C would reasonably have known 
Clydesdale would record adverse data on his credit file. 
Overall, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Clydesdale to 
remove the default from Mr Cs credit file or pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman