DRN-3290489
The complaint
Ms L complains about the way that Advance Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus  
has administered her account.
What happened
Ms L has a personal account with Cashplus. She complains that Cashplus:
Incorrectly cancelled her debit card.
Told her that it had closed her account
Provided poor customer service.
Failed to deal with her complaints.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold this complaint. My provisional 
findings  which form part of this decision  were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Cashplus cancelled Ms Ls debit card in error.
Im also satisfied that Cashplus closed Ms Ls personal account in error. That meant that 
Ms L has not had access to the balance of £2,149.51 that was in the account on 18 
November 2019.
Cashplus has given me evidence that other than monthly subscriptions and a card 
renewal fee there have been no transactions on the account since January 2018. It has 
also provided evidence that the account has not been accessed online since August 2018.
Cashplus said that after it responded to Ms Ls email in December 2019 it didnt hear from 
her until January 2021 regarding the personal account and that she did not take action to 
accept its offer to open a new account and transfer the balance.
I cant see that Cashplus properly replied to Ms Ls emails in November and December 
2019. I dont think it is fair for it to rely on the offer it put forward in one phone call on 18 
November for it to imply that Ms L could have mitigated her loss. It had ample opportunity to 
address Ms Ls concerns.
I also think it was wrong for Cashplus to say that it was Ms Ls decision not to make a 
complaint about the closure of her personal account. She had clearly expressed 
dissatisfaction about what happened. Therefore Cashplus should have dealt with it as a 
complaint, investigated and issued a final response. Its failure to do so has meant what 
should have been a straightforward matter to explain and resolve has dragged on for as 
long as it has.
I agree with Ms L that Cashpluss customer service has been poor.
Putting things right
Ms L has been without use of the funds in the account since November 2019. Cashplus 
should refund the balance and pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date the account 
was closed until date of settlement.
It should also refund any fees it has deducted from the account since 18 November 2019.
Cashplus should tell me in response to this complaint if it can set up a new account and 
transfer the balance across to it. If it can do that without any input from Ms L then I think it 
would be fair for it to pay Ms L £400 for any distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her. That includes the upset caused in not having access to her funds for over two 
years, the cancellation of her debit card, her emails not being responded to, the failure to 
deal with her complaint and the poor service provided. That is along with the inconvenience 
caused by all those things and in having to pursue this matter to this extent.
If Ms L is required to complete a new application or if the account cant be reopened, then 
Cashplus should pay an additional £100 to reflect the additional inconvenience that will
cause to her.
I proposed that Cashplus should:
Reverse any fees it has deducted from Ms Ls personal account since the date the
account was closed
Refund the full amended balance to Ms L  either directly or into a new account 
opened by Cashplus.
Pay interest on the full amended balance at 8% simple per year from the date 
the account was closed until date of settlement.
If Ms L is required to complete an application for a new account or Cashplus cant 
open a new account, then pay Ms L £100 for the additional distress and inconvenience 
this will cause to her.
Pay Ms L £400 for any distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Ms L accepted my provisional findings. Cashplus said while it accepted the overall decision, 
it made a number of points:
It cant be held responsible for Ms L being without an account for so long. It made an 
offer to set up a new account, it was unclear why this would need repeating. 
Id said that Cashplus had ample opportunity to address Ms Ls concerns, its position 
was that Ms L had ample opportunity to open a new account and accept its offer to 
transfer the balance.
The confusion over this case stems from Ms Ls refusal to separate the complaints 
about her business and personal accounts and continued to deal with a complaint about 
the personal account on a closed complaint about the business account. All matters 
would have been addressed had Ms L followed its advice that the complaints be dealt 
with separately.
The proposed award of £100 to set up a new account highlights an excessive approach 
to compensation in this case. Ms L would need to accept the terms and conditions  so it cant set up an account for 
her.
The completion of an online application form takes two minutes. It cant accept that is 
worthy of £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Cashplus has said in its response to my provisional 
decision, but I am not persuaded to change the decision I proposed. I say that for the 
following reasons.
Ms L complained about access to her personal account both before and after Cashplus sent 
her a final response on another complaint regarding her business account. I am surprised 
that Cashplus has said it was for Ms L to understand the difference between the two 
accounts and its internal processes. But in this case, I cant see why it was difficult for a 
regulated financial business to recognise an expression of dissatisfaction about another 
account held with it, even if the initial enquiry was in relation to a different account. And I 
cant see that the FCAs complaint handling rules make that distinction. I consider that 
Cashplus should have treated Ms Ls comments as an expression of dissatisfaction and 
dealt with her complaint about her personal account.
In any event, I think Cashpluss response shows that it has been overly process driven and 
failed to provide basic customer service in respect of this matter. Ms L had clearly made a 
complaint about her personal account. Cashplus should have investigated that and issued a 
final response. It was its decision not to do so  it cant escape its regulatory obligations by 
saying that Ms L should have contacted a different department to make a new complaint.
I dont agree that Cashplus set out sufficiently clearly what Ms L would need to do to reopen 
her account. It is relying on notes of a phone conversation from 18 November 2019 where it 
tells Ms L a TL would need to be contacted to see if funds could be manually transferred 
out, if not CH could reapply and we could see if we could migrate the balance. It later said 
CH does not have another personal account so will have to reapply to have funds moved 
across. The note goes on to discuss the various complaints and Ms Ls expectation that she 
wanted this dealt with in her complaint.
Looking at the record of the conversation, I dont think it is necessarily clear what Ms L 
needed to do. And there was clearly some confusion regarding what was happening. Ms L 
appears to have understood that Cashplus was going to investigate her complaint. Ultimately 
Cashplus was the expert here. It should have recognised that Ms L was its customer and 
would sometimes need guiding. And it had an obligation to communicate in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. Looking at the overall communication Cashplus had with Ms L, 
I dont consider it is reasonable to say that she should have known what she needed to do. It 
was clear from emails that Ms L sent after the phone call, that she was unsure what to do. A 
business acting reasonably would have recognised that and would have taken steps to clear 
up any confusion. I think because Cashplus did not do so, it should pay interest on the 
amount in the account for the period Ms L did not have access to that money.Cashplus has confirmed that Ms L will need to reapply for a new account. It said this would 
only take two minutes. But it hasnt provided evidence of what is involved to support what it 
said.
Nevertheless, that doesnt make any difference to my decision here. The additional £100 is 
to reflect that Ms L should not have the distress and inconvenience of having to reapply for 
the account. A large part of that will be the worry and stress of having to deal unnecessarily 
with that process again. Ms L has made the point that she (understandably) has little faith in 
Cashplus after what has happened. Ms L might decide to apply for an account with another 
bank then that might be less stressful, but will likely take more than the two minutes 
Cashplus said it will take.
This should have been a straightforward matter to resolve. Cashpluss handling of it has 
been poor and I am surprised by its response to my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is Advance Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus should:
Reverse any fees it has deducted from Ms Ls personal account since the date the
account was closed
Refund the full amended balance to Ms L  either directly or into a new account 
opened by Cashplus.
Pay interest on the full amended balance at 8% simple per year from the date 
the account was closed until date of settlement.
Pay Ms L £500 for any distress and inconvenience caused by this matter, including in 
having to apply for a new account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman