DRN-3516700
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) gave her 
incorrect information about payment options available to pay her builder. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont go into much detail 
about the background but will summarise the key points leading to Ms As complaint. Ms A 
accepted a promotional offer from Barclaycard which allowed her 0% interest on purchases 
made using her credit card. Ms A says she received conflicting information from Barclaycard 
about whether a payment to her builder would qualify as an interest free purchase. Ms A 
says she then had to pay her builder by withdrawing funds from four credit cards as well as 
using an overdraft facility on her bank account. 
Ms A complained and Barclaycard accepted that a call handler Ms A spoke with, incorrectly 
informed her that Ms A had been given incorrect information during an online chat. They also 
accepted Ms As complaint had been incorrectly closed as a concern. Barclaycard 
apologised and credited £50 to Ms As account.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms A and Barclaycard on 19 May 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
   
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms As account. This says 
Barclaycard will provide Ms A with a card to use to make transactions. 
Under the heading Making transactions it says, You can use your card to make 
transactions such as cash withdrawals, purchases, balance or money transfers and 
any other use that we allow Ive also seen the purchase offer terms and 
conditions, this says the offer doesnt cover cash withdrawals, buying currency or 
travellers cheques, or any cash-like transaction such as money orders or wire 
transfers.  
I can see weve asked Barclaycard for a copy of the online chat but theyve confirmed 
they dont have a copy. Ms A has provided details of the online chat and I can see 
she asks the agent whether paying her builder would count as a purchase under the 
promotional offer.  Ms A also asks, if her credit card is linked to an account she holds 
with a payment platform, whether payment through this method would also count as 
a purchase under the offer. Theres no dispute that the agent confirmed to Ms A that 
she could pay the builder, do online transactions including using the payment 
platform, and these would be included in the promotional offer. Ms A then instructed 
a builder to carry out work. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call Ms A made to Barclaycard to say her builder has 
given her his bank details and she wants to pay her builder. The call handler explains 
they cant do a transfer and Ms A will need to use her credit card to make the 
payment so it goes through as a purchase. During the call, Ms A specifically asks 
whether payment through the payment platform would be an option and the call 
handler says It still needs to be a purchase though, its not going to accept a bank 
transfer, so you sending money to him. Ms A explains this was the other option she 
discussed with the agent online and she was told that would be fine but shes now 
being told that isnt fine. The call handler explains Ms A cant do a transfer from her 
Barclaycard credit card to a current account unless theres a money transfer offer 
available which there isnt at present. 
Ms A then asks So, how do I pay my builder using my Barclaycard? The call 
handler says The only way that you could do it is, if hes self-employed does he 
have any sort of card reader that he could accept the payment from you? Ms A says 
she doubts he has a card reader and the call handler says That would be the only 
way that he can take the payment rather than you having to send it The call handler 
explains she cant transfer funds from the credit card to the builders account and that 
the builder would need to have a card reader to take payment. Ms A asks And, if he 
hasnt, then how am I going to solve this problem? The call handler says We would 
not be able to do a transfer from the Barclaycard Ms A then asks again if she can 
pay the builder through the payment platform as her credit card is linked to her 
account with the payment platform. The call handler says It still cant be a transfer 
Ms A asks if Barclaycard have therefore given her incorrect information and the call 
handler says this would need to be investigated because if youve been told one 
thing and its put you in an absolute predicament now where youre thinking how can 
I pay my builder, especially if hes done the work so I will need to log this as a 
complaint for you.  
Taking this into account, I dont think the information given to Ms A during both the 
online chat and phone call went far enough. Firstly, during the online chat Ms A is 
given a generic assurance that payment through the two methods outlined by her 
would be included under the promotional offer. I acknowledge Barclaycards point 
that the agent wont have known Ms As builder wouldnt have a card reader, but this 
doesnt persuade me that the agent shouldnt have given Ms A more tailored 
information. Its clear from the online chat and Ms As testimony that using the 
promotional offer was very important to her and her preferred vehicle to pay the 
builder. I think its fair to say that Barclaycard are the experts here and, knowing this 
was Ms As preferred option, this shouldve prompted the agent to work through the 
different scenarios with Ms A. And, to discuss any potential difficulties which might 
arise  in particular, what would happen if the builder didnt have a card reader. Not 
doing this, has left Ms A with a reasonable belief that the two payment methods she 
specifically asked about, would be covered.  
There is then the information given to Ms A during the phone call. Ms A says the 
reason she asked the online agent about paying through the payment platform was 
because her builder raised this with her while discussing how she could pay him. Ms 
A says she told the builder about the promotional offer and how payment to him 
could be covered by this. She says her builder then told her about linking her 
Barclaycard to her payment platform account. Ms A says, this is why she specifically 
asked the online agent about this payment method. The evidence shows she raised 
this specific query with Barclaycard, so Im persuaded by Ms As testimony that this 
query was prompted by her builder informing her that he would accept payment 
through the payment platform. 
   
Barclaycard have told our service that, when a customer has a 0% interest offer on 
purchases, any purchases made using the credit card would be on 0% interest. But, 
if the customer were to make cash withdrawals or cash like transactions, these 
wouldnt be on 0% interest. Barclaycard say the same principles apply with the 
payment platform, and where a Barclaycard credit card is linked to an account on the payment platform, the payment platform can process payments which are then 
collected from Barclaycard. They say, if the payment through the payment platform 
was a purchase then Barclaycard will record it as such. But, if it was a cash like 
transaction or withdrawal, they will record it that way. They say, ultimately, its up to 
the payment platform to decide whether they will process a payment or not.
Barclaycard say, generally speaking, a customer can pay their builder using their 
Barclaycard or through the payment platform but this is subject to the payment 
processing method being used by the builder, and this is outside of Barclaycards 
control. Barclaycard say, specifically in this case and listening to Ms As call with the 
call handler, Ms A had been provided with a bank account number and sort code by 
the builder to make a payment. The call handler then explained to Ms A they would 
be unable to make a payment via that method and it is unlikely to have been possible 
via the payment platform.   
Taking into account what Ms A was told by the agent, what she was then later told by 
the call handler and Barclaycards explanation to our service, I think during the phone 
call, the information given to Ms A again didnt go far enough. In relation to payment 
being made through the payment platform, Ms A is originally told by the agent that 
this would be covered under the promotional offer. Then, when Ms A speaks with the 
call handler, and specifically asks whether she can pay her builder via the payment 
platform, shes told it cant be a transfer. Barclaycard have then told our service that 
payments through the payment platform are covered by the promotional offer but is 
dependent on the payment via the payment platform being processed as a purchase. 
Ive been on the website for the payment platform and this sets out payment types 
and says payments for goods and services are treated as a purchase.  
The call handler, when asked about the payment platform, did give correct 
information by saying it couldnt be a transfer. But, given the explanation provided by 
Barclaycard, I dont think the call handlers explanation went far enough. I think the 
call handler shouldve explained that while it couldnt be a transfer, payment through 
the payment platform would be covered if processed as a purchase. Given the call 
handlers explanation to Ms A, and the context in which the information was given, I 
can understand why this call left Ms A under the impression that the payment 
platform wasnt an option covered by the 0% offer.  
Given that Ive decided the builder was prepared to accept payment through the 
payment platform, and the payment platform treats payments for good and services 
as a purchase, then in view of the information given to Ms A, I think she has lost out 
on paying her builder using the promotional offer. 
Ms A wants Barclaycard to pay her for 12 months of interest on the £4,500 paid to 
her builder calculated at their cash withdrawal rate. I am sorry to disappoint Ms A but 
I dont believe that would be a fair remedy in the circumstances of this case. I say this 
because, while Ms A has missed out on having the payment covered by the 
promotional offer, she has chosen to fund the majority of the payment by borrowing 
against credit cards  this being a more expensive alternative. I cant see Ms A 
considered other options or anything to suggest this was her only option to pay the 
builder. 
That said, I think Ms A has understandably been left very upset and frustrated at not 
being able to use the payment platform and take advantage of the promotional offer  
something which was clearly very important for her. This led to the inconvenience in 
having to fund the payment through an alternative method  and one which has led 
to additional borrowing with interest which Ms A says she is still paying off. So, taking this into account, I dont think Barclaycards offer of £50 is enough to cover the 
impact on Ms A. I think there has been a significant loss of opportunity for Ms A here 
to use her preferred, and more beneficial, payment method. So, Barclaycard should 
pay an additional £350 to Ms A  bringing the total compensation paid to £400. 
So, subject to any further comments from Ms A or Barclaycard, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Ms A has responded to say she has no further 
information to add. Barclaycard have responded to confirm payment for goods and services 
can be made through the payment platform but the builder wouldve needed to be registered 
with the payment platform as a merchant to receive payment. Barclaycard say, if it is evident 
the builder had the capacity to collect payment through this method, theyre happy to accept 
the provisional decision. Barclaycard say they understand the view that Ms A wasnt given 
sufficient information about the possibility of using the payment platform. They say, in order 
to establish this caused Ms A loss, its worth considering whether the builder had the 
capacity to collect the payment through this method. They say the evidence shows the 
builder only provided a sort code and account number for payment. 
Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I acknowledge the points made by Barclaycard but it doesnt persuade me that theres been 
no error here or that there hasnt been an impact on Ms A. I accept Ms A, when she 
contacted Barclaycard to pay the builder, presented a sort code and account number  and 
this method wouldnt be covered under the promotional offer. But, Ive explained in my 
provisional decision why I believe Ms As initial query about the payment platform during the 
online chat was prompted by her builder informing her that he would accept payment 
through the payment platform. On this basis, I believe its more likely than not, the builder did 
have the capacity to receive payment through this method. 
In addition to this, and having listened to Ms As phone call with the call handler, I think its 
fair to say, in light of the insufficient information given to Ms A, she was completely 
dissuaded from considering the payment platform as a vehicle for payment. Therefore, this 
prevented Ms A from even revisiting this discussion with her builder and exploring the 
possibility of the builder  if he didnt have one already  to register an account with the 
payment platform. I believe, on the balance of probabilities, the builder did have an account 
set up. But, even if he didnt, there has still been a significant impact on Ms A which is the 
loss of opportunity to explore this with her builder.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Barclaycard have made an error in not giving sufficient information to 
Ms A and this has led to her losing the opportunity to pay her builder using the promotional 
offer. So, in addition to the £50 already credited to Ms As account, Barclaycard should pay 
an additional £350 compensation for the upset and frustration caused to Ms A. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must pay £350 compensation to Ms A.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman