DRN-2608781
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with the cashing 
of a cheque. Mrs P is represented by her daughter Ms R.
 
What happened 
Ms R says she found a cheque payable to her mother Mrs P for £50 issued in 2015. She 
says the cheque wasnt cashed and was told to take it to a branch which she did. Ms R says 
the cheque was compensation following money taken out of her account incorrectly and has 
now been lost. She says the money is needed by her mother and would like NatWest to 
repay it.
NatWest says the cheque wasnt cashed as it was out of date. It said it checked its records 
and couldnt find any reference to a compensation payment of £50 but said it would pay that 
amount if further details could be provided. NatWest says that the cheque was issued by a 
different bank following a payment it took and Ms R will need to approach that bank.
Ms R brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the cheque was not sent by NatWest but by a different bank and so couldnt fairly 
ask NatWest to pay this money.
Ms R doesnt accept that view and questions why a cheque was sent in the first place.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the letter and cheque from 2015. And Im satisfied that the letter was sent 
by a different bank not NatWest and was about a payment incorrectly taken. The letter told 
Mrs P that the money would be refunded by that bank and a cheque was enclosed for £50 
as compensation. So, I dont think NatWest had any involvement in that complaint and it 
wasnt responsible for sending the cheque. It follows that I cant fairly hold NatWest 
responsible for sending the cheque in the first place and for what took place.
I think Ms R will need to approach the bank that sent her mother the letter and cheque and 
ask it to consider paying the money or re-issuing the cheque.
Overall, I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for what took place when it wasnt the bank 
that was involved in the events in 2015. Im satisfied that any bank would be entitled to 
refuse to cash a cheque that was significantly out of time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman