DRN-3952814
The complaint
Mrs H has complained Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money for a payment she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs H received a text from Lloyds confirming a new payee had been set up on her mobile 
banking. She called Lloyds to say this hadnt been her. She realised a payment for £1,900 
had then been made to this new payee. She asked Lloyds to refund her.
Lloyds wouldnt make a refund. They believed the evidence pointed to this payment being 
made on the device registered to Mrs H. Access to the app had been made in the normal 
way. They didnt believe her device could have been compromised as Mrs H said itd not 
been used by someone else and remained in her possession.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs H brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator found Lloyds evidence convincing. He didnt believe it would be right to ask 
Lloyds to refund Mrs H.
Still unhappy Mrs H has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She also pointed 
out her normal payment behaviour was always to add a clear reference to any payment. She 
didnt believe this was the case for the disputed payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Hs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mrs Hs case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Lloyds and Mrs H have told us.
Mrs H had only opened this account on 7 October. There was no other activity except shed 
received two large payments into the account from the same place: £1,200 on 19 October 
which shed then sent to someone. Shed then received £1,900 on 27 October which shed 
tried to pay to someone. That payment got returned. It was the morning after  according to 
Lloyds records which Ive seen  a new payee was set up with the money being sent to that 
person within minutes.
The records show that the payment was made on Mrs Hs device after a text had been sent 
alerting her to a new payee being set up. Mrs H insists that her device remained with her so I 
cant see how this payment could have been made without her involvement.
Ive reviewed what Mrs H has told our service and I can see the payment made the 
preceding day (which she confirms she made) had a reference. She says she always adds a 
reference to all payments she makes. That reference doesnt appear though to match the 
rest of her story that this money was being sent to pay for building work. I also find it odd that 
money would then be returned.
Overall I believe the evidence points to Mrs H making and authorising this payment herself. 
Whether she then regretted making this payment, I dont know. However I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman