DRN-2918000
The complaint
Miss F complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined her claim under 
her gadget insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Miss F had two separate polices with Amtrust that she had had for around three years. 
Miss F lost one of her mobile phones and contacted Amtrust to make a claim. Amtrust 
carried out an assessment of the claim, during which Miss F confirmed that the phone didnt 
have an active sim card, as this was in the other device. But she said that she had used the 
lost phone to access social media and wi-fi. 
Amtrust declined Miss Fs claim on the basis that there was no active sim card in the phone 
at the time of the loss. It relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy, in support of the 
declined claim. 
Miss F complained to Amtrust as she said that she had proof of use despite there not being 
a sim in the phone and she sought a full refund of the premiums she had paid. In its final 
response, Amtrust again relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy. It said that the 
evidence that Miss F provided as to the proof of use, showed that she had last used the 
phone around seven months earlier. So, the claim remained declined. 
Miss F wasnt happy with the outcome and referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered her complaint and upheld it. She said that although there was no 
sim card in the phone, Miss F had proved that she had used the phone and given the length 
of time that she had had the policy, she believed that the claim was genuine. She 
recommended that Amtrust should honour Miss Fs claim. 
Miss F accepted the view. Amtrust didnt. It said that the requirement for a sim / proof of 
usage is to ensure that insurance is covering a device that was in good working order at the 
point of sale and subsequently. By Miss F not using her phone with a sim, meant that the 
device wasnt covered under the policy. Amtrust asked for an ombudsman to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Miss Fs policy provides cover for loss of a mobile phone. As with all such policies this cover 
is subject to certain terms and conditions, including that Amtrust will only cover loss of a 
mobile phone where proof of usage - after the start of the policy and before the loss of the 
mobile phone  is provided; and it may decline any claim where such usage is not provided. 
Miss F said that her usage of the phone was provided because she had not only used the 
phone to access social media and wi-fi, but she also provided proof that she had last had the 
sim in the phone around seven months before she had reported the phones lost. 
But, the reason Amtrust (and other insurers) ask for proof of usage is to help establish both 
ownership of the phone itself and that it was in Miss Fs possession at the time she took out 
the insurance. If it wasnt, and had already been lost, then it is not covered under the policy 
(and would potentially be fraudulent). 
As with all such policy terms, we would expect Amtrust to apply them reasonably and not 
just refuse a claim because a policyholder cannot comply with a technicality. So, if there 
were other convincing evidence of possession of the insured item and no other factors that 
might cast doubt on the claim, then it may not be reasonable for an insurer to insist on strict 
proof of usage. 
Amtrust is entitled to ask for the information about usage of the phone. I have to consider, 
taking account of all the other circumstances, whether it is reasonable for it to refuse the 
claim because it hasnt received that information. Miss F said that she had the policy for 
three years before a claim was made. Amtrust hasnt disputed that this was the case and I 
have seen evidence to support this. 
Amtrust said that the terms of the policy allow for the provision of the proof of use document 
which shows that the handset had been in use since the policy inception and up to the event 
giving rise to the claim.  Amtrust said that because Miss F couldnt provide evidence that the 
handset was in use up to the event giving rise to the claim (because there was no sim in the 
mobile) it declined Miss Fs claim. 
But I think Miss F has provided evidence that supports that the handset was in use up to the 
event. First, Miss F provided evidence to show that she made monthly payments for around 
three years before the claim was made. Second, she produced a proof of use document 
from her service provider.
I accept that this showed that the last occasion she had a sim in her phone was around 
seven months previously, but I think there was no benefit for Miss F waiting months to make 
a claim, if the loss of the phone hadnt occurred when she said it had. 
Finally, having looked at the terms of the policy, I think the main objective of the insurance 
policy was to provide cover to the device rather than a sim card. Especially as it says under 
the important information section, that the insurance is for a mobile device. Whilst I 
understand that Miss F didnt have a sim in the mobile, I dont think Amtrust were fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint given the additional evidence Miss F 
provided.
 
Putting things right
 
To put matters rights, I think that Amtrust ought to honour the claim. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited ought to honour the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman