The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined her claim under Section 75.
What happened
In January 2019 Ms H paid £1450 for repairs to her son's car using her Barclays credit card. 
The repairs had been carried out between November 2018 and January 2019. Ms H's son 
asked her to pay with her credit card in case something went wrong with the car in the 
future.
Ms H's son subsequently experienced issues with the car so Ms H contacted Barclays to 
dispute the charge.
Barclays said it was unable to action a chargeback because the repairs had been 
completed. It said it had reviewed the case under Section 75 but because the repairs were 
carried out for Ms H's son the claim didn't meet the debtor-creditor-supplier criteria.
Ms H wasn't happy with Barclays response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said that in order to meet the criteria for a 
section 75 claim, the person who paid for the goods or services (in this case, Ms H) had to 
have a contractual relationship with the supplier of the goods (the garage) and the 
credit provider (Barclays). The investigator said there was no contractual relationship 
between Ms H and the garage and therefore the Section 75 criteria weren't met.
Ms H didn't agree, so I've been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 allows a consumer to make a claim against their credit 
card company to get his or her money back. In order to bring a claim under section 75, there 
must be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. This means there must be a direct 
contractual link between Ms H, the garage and Barclays. If the contractual link is broken, 
then Section 75 won't apply.
I've reviewed all the available information. Based on what I've seen, I don't think Barclays 
has acted unreasonably in declining the Section 75 claim. I'll explain why.
The credit agreement shows that Ms H is the account holder and that Barclays provided 
credit for her when she used the card to pay for the repairs. So there's a contractual 
agreement between Ms H and Barclays.
DRN-1588335The invoice from the garage shows that the repairs were carried out for Ms H's son. The 
invoice is addressed to him and the car which was repaired is registered in his name as per 
the logbook. There's no evidence that Ms H instructed the garage to carry out the repairs. 
Based on what I've seen, I'm persuaded that the contract to repair the car was between Ms 
H's son and the garage, not between Ms H and the garage.
Because of this, I don't think the debtor-supplier -creditor criteria for Section 75 are met.
I understand that Ms H's son thought he would be protected against future issues with the 
car if he paid with a credit card. This may have been the case if Ms H's son had used a 
credit card belonging to him, because there would have been a contractual link between him, 
the garage and the credit card provider. However, because it was Ms H's credit card which 
was used to pay means that the contractual link has been broken.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman