DRN-1912384
The complaint
Mr L complains that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited trading as Evans 
Halshaw misled him about the features of a finance agreement when he bought his car.
 
What happened
Mr L explains that he wanted to trade in his petrol car for a diesel car because he was going 
to be travelling further. He agreed to purchase a used car in August 2016 for £10,590.99. He 
part exchanged his old car for £5,500, paid £100 cash as a deposit and took out a PCP 
agreement for the balance. Mr L says he did this because it was explained to him that he 
would have a guaranteed value to put towards another car when the agreement ended.
When the agreement came to an end around three years later Mr L was shocked to discover 
that he would have to pay the guaranteed future value to keep the car and he had only £500 
to put towards another car. Mr L says that he would never have entered the deal if he had 
known that he would be left in this position.
Mr L complained to Pendragon, but it didnt uphold his complaint and said that the terms of 
the agreement were clear, and Mr L had signed the agreement and other paperwork to 
confirm he understood. It didnt accept that Mr L had been wrongly advised about the 
features of the agreement.  
Mr L wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought that Mr L had misunderstood the 
agreement and they didnt think there was enough evidence to conclude that the agreement 
had been misrepresented. Mr L didnt agree and said that there were clear discussions and if 
the true position had been made known to him he would not have gone ahead with the deal 
as it did not make financial sense for him to do so.
He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. This is the last stage in the process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where sales have been made face to face there isnt any written 
confirmation of exactly what was said. So, I have to base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened and the evidence I do have, such as the finance documents and 
terms and conditions. Ive also taken into account what Mr L has said happened and his 
particular circumstances and reasons for buying the car.
PCPs are a type of hire purchase agreement. The key feature of a PCP is that the value of 
the car at the end of the agreement is assessed at the start of the agreement and that cost is 
deferred resulting in lower monthly repayments. PCPs provide the flexibility to own the car 
at the end of the agreement by paying that deferred value (in this case referred to as the 
Guaranteed Future Value -GFV) or to enter into a new agreement using any equity built up 
during the course of the existing agreement. Alternatively, the car can be handed back with 
nothing further to pay subject to any mileage or damage charges. 
Mr L says that he was given misleading information about the trade in option which 
suggested to him that he would have a significant amount to put into another agreement. Mr 
L says he was told that the GFV would be the minimum he would have towards another 
agreement.
Looking at the agreement Mr L signed I can see that the GFV is set out as the optional final 
payment. Mr L would have appreciated that if he wanted to keep the car this would be the 
amount he would need to pay. Mr L also confirmed that he was aware he could hand the car 
back with nothing further to pay.
The issue is effectively what the car was worth at the end of the agreement. Mr L explains 
that when he came to trade in the car the dealership offered him only £500 over the GFV 
which meant he only had £500 towards a new car. 
I think it is unlikely that Mr L was told he would have £4397.50 to put towards a new car as 
well as nothing to settle on the finance at the end of the agreement. I say this because this 
doesnt align with the figures in the finance agreement Mr L signed. The agreement shows 
that the total amount payable under the agreement for the car including the charge for credit 
was £12,623.70. At the end of the agreement Mr L would still have £4397.50 to pay 
whatever he chose to do.
I can understand why Mr L thought that there would be more equity in the agreement given 
the size of his deposit. I do understand the point he is making about the large deposit not 
necessarily being suitable for a PCP arrangement. However, Mr L said he wanted to bring 
his repayments down and he has paid less over the course of the agreement so the 
outstanding balance at the end is more.
I appreciate that Mr L had not bought a car in this way before and I do sympathise with the 
situation he now finds himself in. But there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that the 
agreement was mis-sold or that the terms were not properly explained to Mr L given the 
paperwork he signed and what hes told me about the sale. 
     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman