DRN-3115600
The complaint
Mr H says C R Morrow Ltd (C R Morrow) mis-sold him a policy they called payment 
protection plan. The policy provided cover for life and critical illness. 
 
What happened
Mr H was buying a car through hire purchase. When he did so he also took out the policy he 
is now complaining about. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. C R Morrow disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 13 September 2021, a copy 
of which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint that the 
policy was miss-sold. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 13 October 2021. Mr H has acknowledged receiving the decision 
and was disappointed with it. He suggested he might make some further submissions. But 
the deadline for doing so was clearly dealt with in the provisional decision, which Mr H 
acknowledged receiving, and at the time of writing I have received no further submission 
from Mr H or any request for an extension to the deadline to do so. I consider that Mr H has 
had sufficient time to make a further submission if he wanted to. So, I am proceeding to my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Im currently minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I explain why below.
C R Morrow Ltd had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
C R Morrow Ltd has provided a copy of the application form Mr H signed from the time of the 
sale. To get the cover a box needed to be ticked for it and the box is ticked on Mr Hs 
application. There was a No box to the form which Mr H could have ticked to decline cover. 
And Mr H signed the form which denotes his agreement with the forms contents.  
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues, and in the 
absence of any detailed testimony from Mr H to the contrary, taking everything into account, 
I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
C R Morrow Ltd says they recommended the policy to Mr H. This meant C R Morrow Ltd 
needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time I dont think the policy was 
necessarily unsuitable for him. I explain why below.
The life and critical illness cover appear to have been a bundle of cover. I say this because 
none of the options available offer theses covers separately. The application form contained 
a range of different covers it could provide under the policy and Mr H chose to be covered 
for the basic cover, which was life and critical illness only. So, it seems that at some level Mr 
H was interested in the possible protection this insurance could provide. 
Mr H was eligible for the policy and he could have benefitted from the cover had he needed 
to make a claim. The policy cost appears to have been affordable. 
Mr H could have benefitted from the critical illness cover. Mr H said he couldnt recall what 
sick pay arrangements he would have benefitted from in the event of a life-threatening 
illness and he told us he had only a very modest amount of savings at the time of the sale. 
So, considering all of this, I think he couldve found the policy useful. 
Mr H was 23 years old and lived at home with his parents. And he was buying a car for a 
significant amount of money financed by a loan and had only modest savings. Mr Hs means 
were insufficient to have repaid his borrowing in the event of his death. And so, he may have 
thought it was important to give some protection to someone who was important in his life, 
his parents, by providing funds to repay his borrowing in the event of his death. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr H.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr H, C R Morrow Ltd also had to give him clear 
enough information about the policy so they could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information C R Morrow Ltd gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for 
him, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any 
further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold the mis-
sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in favour of them for this part of the 
complaint against C R Morrow Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman