DRN-1682327
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc processed payments 
incorrectly and provided poor customer service.
What happened
The director of H contacted NatWest on 20 August 2019. He said that there was a duplicated 
payment to a car rental company H regularly used. Both the actual payment and a pre 
authorisation for the same amount were affecting the available balance of the account. He 
was dissatisfied with its response and that this issue kept happening. He also says that he 
was told to refund payments due through an online card payment processing company back 
to customers. And that H did not get this business back. H has lost out financially and its 
account cannot be used for one week each month as the available balance is incorrectly 
reported as zero. The director says that NatWest has provided poor service when hes 
raised this.
NatWest said that it had not made any error. The payments debited and shown as 
authorised were the result of actions by the retailer. And by 22 August 2019 the pre 
authorisation of the payment had been cancelled. It had no record of telling H to refund 
payments due from customers. It accepted that there had been technical issues on 26 and 
27 August 2019 but that these were intermittent and related solely to access to online 
banking and not the mobile app or telephone banking. NatWest recognised that there had 
been delays and errors in responding to H and paid £300 in compensation to cover its costs 
and inconvenience.
Our investigator did not recommend that NatWest do anything further. She said that there 
was only evidence of an issue with one retailer  the car rental company. She could see 
from the NatWest authorisation logs that on 18 August 2018 there had been a request for 
payments (rounded amounts) of £639 and for £775. And then on 20 August 2019 a payment 
for £639 was applied to the account. These two entries of £639 did not seem to be the result 
of a duplicate processed by NatWest. There was nothing to link this as H thought to systems 
changes at NatWest which it believed were then resolved in January 2020 when it contacted 
NatWest again and the problem stopped. H had explained that the money due to it from its 
customers card payments could only be held for 24 to 48 hours. But that was not something 
NatWest was responsible for. She thought that the compensation was reasonable for the 
delays. We couldnt look at new issues in this complaint.
H did not agree. The director said that this problem with duplicated payment authorisations 
happened month after month from August 2019. He did not believe that this is unrelated to 
systems problems at NatWest. It did not happen in February 2020 and he considers this is 
due to him escalating this to the CEO of NatWest. The rental company had confirmed to him 
that it had not made duplicate requests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the two available call recordings of what I know were multiple calls the 
director of H made to NatWest on 20 August 2019. He explained hed been into the car 
rental company on 18 August 2019 to renew the rental. It had taken a deposit which is 
always returned after three to four days. And a payment for the prior month of £639.89 which 
he explains was an error as he had replaced a broken-down vehicle that month. I can see 
from the bank statement a refund of £224.43 on the 20 August 2019 from that retailer too 
which I understand relates to that. But on 20 August 2019 there was not only a debit for 
£639.89 showing but still a pre authorisation of the same amount. The director was clearly 
frustrated to have spoken to a number of members of staff about this and although having 
been told this would be removed from the account to find it had not been done so by later in 
the day.
The director has also provided screenshots from the NatWest mobile app showing what 
happened in subsequent months with an explanation. I think its relevant I summarise for 
example what he says about this for November 2019 here too.
He says he went to the rental company on 10 November 2019 to renew the rental. As staff 
were aware of the issue he went behind the counter to see what was being processed. A 
transaction of £735.79 was processed made up of a deposit of £300 and £435.79 rental for 
the forthcoming period. He says it then arranges to close down the previous period and this 
appears as a payment of £435.79. But on 11 November 2019 there were pending 
transactions of both £735.79 and £435.79 and also a duplicate of £435.79 which he says 
means Hs account has zero balance until this is released four to five days later. Ive seen a 
screen shot of Hs account on the mobile app showing the entries that day and the available 
balance as zero.
I understand the issue and I need to decide if this was the result of an error by NatWest. As 
part of the complaint NatWest looked specifically at the authorisation entries for August 
2019. Ive seen these too. The authorisation for the £775.46 amount was made in the 
morning of 18 August 2019 and that for £639.89 made that evening. Thats a request I think 
only the retailer could have made. It seems to me that both an authorisation was made and 
then the payment taken. NatWest has limited control over what the retailer does. That 
retailer had all the card information and authorisation necessary to put through payments.
I take into account that this issue only occurred with this retailer and seemed to be repeated 
on a monthly basis. The duplicated entry was originated at a different point than the advance 
deposit. The prior months rental would itself have been pre authorised the previous month. 
The issue arises when the rental company processes the actual payment for the prior month. 
I can understand why the director thinks this is down to NatWest. But Ive no evidence to 
support that it made this mistake or of how this was related to any general system update. It 
seems to me more likely down to the way the actual monthly payments had been processed 
by the retailer and something that seemed to happen when the director was not there. I dont 
have a reasonable basis to find that these issues were due to an error by NatWest.
H also complains that it had to refund card payments to its customers of over £2,300 on 25 
and 26 August 2019 saying that it had been told by NatWest that it could not be confident 
the money would reach the account. H says that the intermediary needed to credit these 
within 24 to 48 hours. There were clearly systems issues with accessing online banking at 
that time. But there is no evidence to support H being told by NatWest that the payments 
from its customers then due would not reach its account and should be refunded. I can 
understand H being concerned about its general issues with the systems and its experience 
with the duplicated authorisation a few days earlier. But even given that I dont think NatWest could be responsible if as H says any of those customers it refunded then decided not to 
proceed with their orders.
NatWest has paid H £300 in compensation. This is for the impact on H a separate legal 
entity. And so, while I can hear from the available call recordings that the director was 
personally upset by what happened and the service provided  the impact on him is not 
something I can take into account in a complaint by H.
I fully appreciate that the director will remain disappointed when I say that I think NatWest 
has paid sufficient compensation for the service issues and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that National Westminster 
Bank Plc need not take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman