DRN-2811677
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) lent irresponsibly when it approved a 
personal loan. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr H applied online for a loan of £16,600 over a five year term. The 
application said Mr H earned £2,550 a month and had a regular mortgage payment of 
£1,075. BOI says Mr H declared £13,000 of unsecured debts at a monthly cost of £246. BOI 
says it used financial modelling to reach a likely cost of living figure of £607. The monthly 
loan payment was £348.44. 
BOI says the figures Mr H provided appeared reasonable and that it completed a credit 
search. Mr Hs application was approved with a total loan figure of £20,906 once interest 
was applied. 
Mr H maintained monthly payments until March 2019 when he experienced some financial 
difficulties. The loan was ultimately terminated by BOI and sold to a third party. 
Mr H complained that BOI had lent irresponsibly when it approved his loan but it didnt 
agree. Mr H referred his case to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt agree that BOI had lent irresponsibly and Mr H asked to appeal. In 
response to the investigators findings, Mr H sent a bank statement for July 2018 that shows 
his monthly outgoings were higher than the figure BOI used. As Mr H asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business approves lending it needs to carry out proportionate checks to see 
whether the consumer can maintain the payments in a sustainable way. There is no set list 
of checks a lender has to complete. Checks should be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of an application and take into account the applicants circumstances. 
Generally, lenders should consider the type of credit and amount being applied for along 
with the information the applicant provides in the application and details it obtains from the 
credit reference agencies. 
Each lender will apply its own affordability checks to see whether the application meets its 
lending criteria. I think its worth noting that businesses dont have to obtain bank statements 
or evidence of someones income in all cases. I need to consider whether BOI completed 
proportionate checks when considering whether to approve Mr Hs application. 
BOI says it took information Mr H provided in the application form into account, including his 
income and mortgage payment. BOI says it uses financial modelling to come up with a 
reasonable cost of living estimate and used the figure of £607 in Mr Hs case. Within the 
application, a figure of £246 was used to cover the monthly repayments to Mr Hs other 
outstanding credit. BOI says, on that basis, Mr Hs monthly payment of £348 appeared 
affordable so it approved the loan. 
Whilst I understand my decision will disappoint Mr H I havent found that BOI lent 
irresponsibly. Ive looked at the information it had available and can see it took what appears 
to be Mr Hs primary outgoing, his mortgage payment, into account and also considered his 
other borrowing costs. BOI says it uses financial modelling to derive an expenditure figure 
for living costs and used £607 for Mr Hs application. Whilst I can see Mr H has sent us 
statements that show the specific outgoings he has each month, I think BOI acted 
reasonably when it considered his application. As Ive said above, businesses need to 
complete proportionate checks and that doesnt always mean obtaining copies of bank 
statements. Im satisfied the cost of living figure BOI used was reasonable and can see it 
took separate figures for Mr Hs mortgage and other unsecured borrowing costs into account 
as well. I didnt see anything in the information BOI used to assess Mr Hs application that 
was unreasonable or shouldve caused it to ask for additional details from Mr H. 
Overall, Im satisfied that BOI did complete proportionate checks when it considered Mr Hs 
application and that its decision to approve it was fair and reasonable. As I havent found 
that BOI lent irresponsibly, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman