DRN-2043758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the premiums quoted on their home insurance with Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
What happened
RSA took over the underwriting of Mr and Mrs Ls policy in 2018. The policy had been sold to 
Mr and Mrs L by their building society many years earlier. 
In 2017, with the previous underwriter, Mr and Mrs L had been quoted £1,195, but only paid 
£1,086 after discussing the price with the insurer. In 2018, RSA invited renewal of the policy 
for a price of £1,051 for the year. 
However, Mr and Mrs L went online and obtained a quote for a new policy via their building 
society. That policy was also underwritten by RSA and the quote, which included an existing 
customer discount, was for £464. Mr and Mrs L took out this policy and didnt renew their 
existing one. They then complained to the building society, the previous insurer, and RSA 
about how theyd been treated. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint about RSA. Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so Ive 
been asked to make a decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs L 
fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mr and Mrs L fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair. However, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
RSA has shown us how it set the price of Mr and Mrs Ls policy when it took over its 
underwriting. Im satisfied that RSA had a pricing policy which it applied consistently to all 
the customers that it inherited from the previous insurer. That policy sought to ensure that 
the price charged was fair based on RSAs assessment of the risk being insured. For Mr and 
Mrs L, that led to an invitation to renew in 2018 at a price that was lower than what theyd 
paid the previous insurer in 2017. In doing this, I dont think RSA treated Mr and Mrs L 
unfairly. 
Instead of renewing the policy, Mr and Mrs L took out a new policy with RSA through their 
building society. This cost much less than RSA had quoted to renew their existing policy. So, 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L think this indicates they were treated unfairly. 
However, the two policies are not the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses, 
terms and conditions, and are underwritten differently. Those differences mean that, as Mr 
and Mrs L have experienced, the price of two different policies, even from the same insurer, 
can differ significantly. While that can seem strange to a customer who just wants to insure 
their home, it doesnt necessarily mean that the price charged for one policy is unfair just 
because it is more expensive than another policy. 
Mr and Mrs L also benefitted from a 25% existing customer discount on the price of the 
new policy. RSA has confirmed that discount was not available on their existing policy. So, 
this further affected the price charged. 
In its renewal invitation, RSA did encourage Mr and Mrs L to shop around, as it was required 
to under new rules that were introduced in 2017. But those rules dont go as far as to say an 
insurer has to proactively tell customers about other policies it may have available. So, there 
was no obligation for RSA to do so.
Overall, having considered everything in this case, including what Mr and Mrs L have said, I 
dont think RSA has treated them unfairly when setting the price of their policy. Because of 
this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman