DRN-4175986
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result this 
Service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneyway, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was six and 
a half years old and the sales invoice says it had already completed 98,989 miles. I 
understand Mr K thinks the mileage was 102,000 when the car was supplied to him. Hes not 
provided any further evidence of that, and Im persuaded the mileage when the car was 
supplied was most likely to be 98,989 because the mileage almost three months later, when 
the timing chain was replaced, was recorded as 102,554, and I think its more likely Mr K 
would have completed about 3,500 miles in three months than just a few hundred.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneyway were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Repairs were carried out in April 2022 when the dealership accepted liability for them. The 
invoice for those repairs shows that a timing chain, an injector, and a hose was replaced. 
The dealership were unable to corroborate the faults Mr K says his garage feared may be 
present. The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair faults that are 
present or developing when the car is supplied. So, I think Moneyway had that opportunity in 
April 2022. If there were other issues identified that were likely to have been present, or 
developing, at the point of supply I would then expect Moneyway to accept rejection of the 
car.
 
Here, however, I think Moneyway have been able to demonstrate the subsequent fault/s 
reported to them by Mr K werent present when the car was supplied to him. I say that 
because the independent report they commissioned from an expert in these matters didnt 
think it would have been possible for Mr K to have driven 6,000 if they were. The 
independent inspector also didnt think the fault he had identified was likely to have been 
linked to the previous repair completed on the vehicle.
I understand that the inspector wasnt able to identify the exact cause of the fault as he 
explained that would require a more detailed investigation. But the inspector did provide his 
reasoning for what he thought was likely to be wrong, and I dont think there was any 
suggestion of a fault that could have been present from inception of the deal. Its 
unfortunately no longer possible to carry out a more detailed inspection as the car has now 
been sold. On balance, I think its likely the faults Mr K complained of where not present or 
developing from the beginning and that this car wasnt, therefore, of unsatisfactory quality.
In those circumstances, I dont think Moneyway have been unreasonable and Im not asking 
them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman