DRN-2385986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC sold one of their shareholdings below 
the price theyd instructed. They want compensation for the loss they say theyve made of 
around £500.
What happened
Mr E placed an online order to sell his and Mrs Es holding of 4,000 shares in a company Ill 
call F. He wanted to at least break even and so did not want to sell at a price lower than 
£1.26. He read about the different types of orders on Barclays website and decided that a 
stop order was the best way of instructing Barclays to do what he wanted. But the order was 
executed at a price of £1.113975.
Barclays said the order was executed in accordance with Mr Es instructions. What he 
should have done was placed a limit order. It acknowledged Mr E had spent time on the 
matter and offered a goodwill gesture of £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Barclays had executed the order correctly and hadnt misled Mr E about the type of order 
hed placed.
Mr and Mr E didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The investigator said Mr E should have sought help from Barclays if he was unsure. But, 
based on the website explanations of different orders, Mr E felt sure of what he was 
doing and didnt need to contact Barclays. The website explanations were misleading.
The investigator said Mr E would have received a warning message when the order was 
placed to say that the order was likely to be executed immediately. But he did not receive 
this warning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think both parties agree with what happened here  Mr E placed an online stop order to sell 
4,000 shares in F at a stop price of £1.26. This order was correctly executed by Barclays. 
But what Mr E should have done is placed a limit order rather than a stop order. He says he 
was misled into placing the wrong type of order.
I agree with Mr E that, whilst Barclays offers various means by which consumers can seek 
more information and clarification about online orders, Mr E should have been able to rely on 
the information available on the Barclays website. In particular the orders explained text 
which was available when he placed the order. 
This text included brief information about a Limit order and a Stop order. A limit order is 
explained as:
Buy or sell at a price set by you, which can either be higher or lower than the current market 
price. Your order will be placed automatically once the set price is reached or exceeded. We 
monitor your limit orders automatically until the order expires. If your set price isnt reached, 
your order will expire without an order being placed. Limit orders can be placed for up to 30 
days.
And a stop order is explained as:
Buy or sell shares but only when a stop price you specify is reached or passed. You can 
also add an optional limit price, which can protect you further. We monitor your order 
automatically until the order expires. If your price isnt reached or passed, your order will 
expire without an order being placed. Stop orders can be placed for up to 30 days.
The explanations are relatively brief. But they appear as a list, so Mr E could have compared 
the different types of orders. Having read the descriptions of all the different types of orders, 
I think there was enough information for Mr E to reasonably realise that  if he and Mrs E 
wanted to sell at a price of no lower than £1.26, a limit order would have been the most 
appropriate order for him to place. 
Having chosen to place a stop order, Mr E would have been aware  from the description 
and from the boxes he needed to complete  that he could have added a limit price if he 
didnt want to sell at below £1.26.
So whilst I accept Mr E made a mistake, I dont think this was due to an error by Barclays.
Our investigator told Mr E he would have received a warning message to say that the order 
was likely to be executed immediately, but Mr E said he didnt receive any warning. We 
asked Barclays for its further comments about this. It has clarified that the warning message 
only appears on its demonstration page, and not when the order is actually placed. I dont 
find this makes a difference to my overall conclusion, as I think the explanation of the 
different types of orders was reasonably clear.
During its investigation of this complaint, Barclays offered to pay Mr and Mrs E £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. I consider this to be fair and reasonable should Mr and Mrs E decide, on 
reflection, that they want to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs E £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman