DRN-2735732
The complaint
Mr S is responsible for the administration of the estate of his late mother, Mrs S. He 
complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) processed and paid a claim from 
his sister for Mrs Ss savings. 
What happened
Mrs S died intestate in November 2018. Mr Ss sister  for ease of reading, Ill refer to her as 
A  wrote to NS&I about Mrs Ss savings and made a claim for the funds. NS&I processed 
the claim and paid the funds to A in January 2019. 
Mr S obtained grant of letters of administration in September 2020, naming him as the legal 
representative of his mothers estate. He contacted NS&I about the savings but was 
informed that theyd already been paid out. Therefore, he raised a complaint because he felt 
that the funds shouldnt have been paid to A and NS&I didnt carry out appropriate checks. 
NS&I responded to Mr Ss complaint in January 2021. They said that when they paid out the 
funds, they wrote to A and explained that by law the balance of the estate must be divided 
equally between Mrs Ss children. Also, that they were satisfied the correct process was 
followed and they couldnt get involved in a family dispute. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that NS&I acted 
fairly and reasonably when they paid out the funds. But Mr S didnt agree with the view. 
Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the form A filled out. I can see with the claim form NS&I included a flow chart 
which explained who could claim and how. They explained that if the savings were over 
£5,000 then they may ask for the grant of representation (grant of probate or grant of letters 
of administration). 
In response to the view, Mr S has asked why NS&I didnt obtain a divorce certificate to show 
Mr Ss husband wasnt next of kin. Ive considered Mr Ss comments and what he has said 
about the delay obtaining the letters of administration. But Mrs S was divorced, and this was 
accurately reflected by As answers in the claim form  she said there was no husband. As 
Mrs Ss ex-husband wasnt next of kin, such a check wouldnt have changed the position. 
Ive reviewed the initial claim form and can see A confirmed there was no will and that grant 
of letters of administration werent being obtained. She also said that there was no husband 
and listed Mrs Ss children. She provided a copy of the death certificate which named her as 
Mrs Ss daughter. NS&I have also explained that had any of the children contacted them and 
provided the information then they would have dealt with it in the same way. 
The amount paid was less than £5,000. NS&I have explained their process and shown 
evidence to support this. Im satisfied this is in line with the law under the Administration of 
Estates (Small Payments) Act 1965 and industry practice as financial institutions may 
release low value assets without necessarily seeing a grant of representation. A was entitled 
to make the claim in the capacity she did. Therefore, I see no reason why NS&I should have 
prevented the withdrawal. 
I can appreciate Mr Ss frustration after waiting to claim the funds until hed received letters 
of administration. I also understand that he feels that hes been disadvantaged by obtaining 
this. Ive considered the letter NS&I sent A in January 2019. I can see they confirmed theyd 
made the payment to her as she was next of kin and explained that the balance of the estate 
would need to be divided between Mrs Ss children. Therefore, they outlined how the estate 
should be divided under intestacy rules and I wouldnt expect them to do anything further 
here. 
NS&I also wrote to Mr S in October, November and December 2020 confirming the funds 
had already been paid out and explaining the position. Mr S has said he didnt receive a 
copy of the initial claim form, but I can see this has now been shared by our investigator. 
Overall, Im satisfied NS&I acted fairly and reasonably when they released the funds to A. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman