DRN-3246524
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) was irresponsible in
lending to her.
What happened
In April 2018, Mrs B applied to M&S for a credit card. Her application was approved, and an
account was opened for her with a credit limit of £4,000.
During 2021, Mrs B complained to M&S about the account. She said that the credit card
had been unaffordable from the outset and that shed been struggling financially at the time
she applied for the account. She said that, if M&S had done enough checks at the time, it
would have realised the card was unaffordable. But she said its checks werent thorough
enough and that it acted irresponsibly by lending to her.
M&S didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had made enough checks before lending to Mrs B
and that none of the information provided by either Mrs B or the Credit Reference Agencies
suggested that the credit card would be unaffordable. It said that Mrs B had applied for the
card, accepted the terms and conditions and made use of the credit. It said she didnt have
to do any of these things if she thought she couldnt afford the card.
Mrs B wasnt happy with the response from M&S, so she brought the complaint to this
service. She says that, if M&S had checked her credit file more thoroughly, it would have
seen that she was already struggling financially. M&S says that the data revealed by its
searches didnt give it any cause for concern.
But it says that, when looking into Mrs Bs complaint, it became aware that Mrs B had other
credit agreements associated with another address. It says these agreements were in place
at the time of Mrs Bs application. But it says that Mrs B didnt disclose this other address in
her application. So it says that the checks it made with the Credit Reference Agencies at the
time didnt reveal all of Mrs Bs credit commitments. M&S says that, if it had been aware of
these other commitments and the true picture of Mrs Bs finances at the time, it wouldnt
have offered Mrs B the credit card.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2021 saying that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. The parties have both had a chance to respond to the provisional decision. 
Neither party has provided any comments or further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any new information, but Ive looked at everything again. I 
havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So my 
findings are unchanged from those set out in my provisional decision and Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
When Mrs B applied for the credit card, M&S needed to check whether she would be able to
repay the credit without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and
without having to borrow further. There arent set checks which it had to carry out. But Id
expect it to have made checks which were proportionate to things like the amount of the
credit being applied for and the information Mrs B provided about her financial situation.
M&S says that it carried out an affordability assessment when Mrs B applied for the account.
It says it did this using the information provided by Mrs B herself as well as modelled data
and information from the Credit Reference Agencies. From the information Ive seen, I think
M&S carried out enough checks here.
The next thing I need to consider is whether it made a fair lending decision at the time,
based on the information revealed by those checks. M&S says that the Credit Reference
Agency data showed a mortgage but no unsecured debt. And that Mrs B scored highly on
both the Credit Refence Agency data and its internal credit scores. It says that she was
within its risk tolerances and so her application was approved. From what Ive seen, I think
the lending decision was fair based on the information available to M&S at the time.
Mrs B says that she was already struggling financially when she applied for the credit card.
But M&S says it only found out about Mrs Bs other debts when it received her complaint
letter telling it about them. Im satisfied that the information returned by the Credit Reference
Agencies at the time of Mrs Bs application revealed no unsecured debt or adverse
information which should have stopped M&S from lending to Mrs B.
M&S says that, as part of Mrs Bs application, she was asked to provide her address history
for the past three years. It says she provided just one address, which is where the credit
card agreement was sent. M&S says that, since looking into this complaint, it has discovered
several credit agreements in Mrs Bs name associated with a second address, some of
which had been opened within the three years prior to her application. M&S says that, if Mrs
B had provided this address in her application, the information about these credit
agreements would have been returned as part of the Credit Reference Agency checks.
Im satisfied that this data wasnt revealed by the checks M&S made at the time of the
application. It seems that it was only revealed by searching against the second address. But
M&S didnt know of that address at the time of Mrs Bs application, so it couldnt make any
checks against it.
Ive seen evidence that, in May 2018 - very shortly after the account was opened, a change
of address was recorded on Mrs Bs M&S account. The address was changed to the one
which M&S now knows is associated with Mrs Bs other credit agreements, some of which it
says pre-date her application. I havent seen anything which explains why this second
address wasnt included on Mrs Bs application form. But Im satisfied that, by the time M&S
was made aware of the address, the credit had already been granted.
M&S says it would have declined Mrs Bs application if it had been aware of the information
associated with her other address. But what Im looking at here is whether it made a fair
lending decision based on the information available to it at the time of the application. I think
it did. I think it made enough checks at the time and I cant safely conclude that it was M&Ss
fault that Mrs Bs other financial commitments werent reported in the search results of those
checks. It appears that those details were only revealed by searching against the alternative
address, but M&S couldnt search against that address at the time as it didnt know about it.
Therefore, I dont think M&S acted unfairly here when it approved Mrs Bs application.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman