DRN-3030379
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from his motor insurance provider, The 
National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) following a claim he made 
for damage to his car.
 
What happened
Mr C was involved in a motor accident and called his insurer NFU to make a claim on 26 
February 2021 (Friday).
On 2 March 2021 (Tuesday) Mr C was contacted by DAS Legal Expenses. Mr C explained 
that he wasnt sure if it was safe to use the tow bar on his car as it had been involved in a 
collision at the rear.
DAS explained that the car was noted as roadworthy and it would need to be inspected 
before a hire car could be arranged. DAS was unable to have Mr Cs car inspected the same 
day and requested photos from Mr C. DAS also suggested that a local garage could inspect 
the damage as this may be a quicker alternative. Without evidence that the car wasnt 
roadworthy DAS was unable to arrange a hire car for Mr C.
Mr C provided photos and chased DAS to check they had been received. DAS told Mr C that 
the person looking at the photos was on leave so it would take a day or two for the photos to 
be considered. Mr C explained that this delay was not reasonable.
On 3 March 2021 (Wednesday) an engineer was able to confirm the tow bar on Mr Cs car 
needed to be replaced and a hire car was arranged.
On 4 March 2021 (Thursday) a hire car was provided to Mr C which he signed to accept.
Mr C says he called on 8 March 2021 (Monday) to complain the car that had been provided 
to him did not have a tow bar, and a suitable alternative was then provided on 12 March 
2021 (Friday). NFU say Mr C called on 9 March 2021 (Tuesday), and that the alternative 
was provided the following day.
On 19 March 2021 (Friday) the repairs to Mr Cs car were being finalised. DAS spoke to Mr 
C to explain that the hire company would be in touch the following day to off hire the hire car.
Mr C had two conversations with the hire company the following day (Saturday) In the first 
call Mr C was told the hire car was going to be off hired that evening. In the second call an 
extension to the hire was made to the following day. Mr C was unable to contact DAS or 
NFU over the weekend as the offices were closed.
Mr C had explained that it wasnt possible to arrange for the hire car to be returned over the 
weekend as his daughter was in hospital, and understandably this was a priority.
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. While she 
accepted the overall situation had caused Mr C both distress and inconvenience, she 
thought NFU had acted in a fair and timely manner. Mr C disagreed, so this complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the information provided by both NFU and Mr C. This includes both 
accounts of events, the paperwork available and telephone call recordings.
Mr C expected his claim to be dealt with more quickly, and the inconvenience caused to him 
to be limited. When Mr C was contacted by DAS on 2 March 2021 and he explained he had 
concerns about his ability to use the tow bar on his car he expected a better service. 
At the time DAS had Mr Cs car recorded as roadworthy. As DAS would only be able to claim 
back the cost of a hire car from a third-party if it could prove a hire car was required, it was 
reasonable for it to request further evidence as to whether Mr Cs car was roadworthy. 
Without this evidence the cost of any hire facility could become Mr Cs responsibility.
I appreciate Mr C needed a suitable hire car as quickly as possible, but I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Mr Cs car couldnt be assessed that day, or that DAS requested photos 
to assess the car remotely. It often takes several days to assess damage caused to a 
vehicle, and it is reasonable to carry out such assessments. And while it would have been 
frustrating to be told there would be a delay due to a DAS representative being on annual 
leave, I dont think a delay of up to two days is unreasonable. In any event Mr Cs car was 
assessed the following day and a hire car was arranged.
DAS first spoke to Mr C about arranging a hire car and his requirements on 2 March 2021. A 
hire car was arranged then signed for by Mr C two days later. I think this is a reasonable 
time.
Mr C explained that over the weekend he noticed the car he was provided with didnt have 
the tow bar he required. Mr C called to complain, and an appropriate alternative was 
provided. Mr C has told us he called about the issue on the Monday and an alternative 
wasnt provided until the Friday of the same week (12 March 2021). I have looked at the 
available evidence and I can see that a check sheet was completed on 10 March 2021 for 
the alternative car. I think this is sufficient evidence that the alternative car was provided to 
Mr C on 10 March 2021 which was two days after Mr C complained. 
I think Mr C should have been provided with the correct car from the outset on 4 March 
2021. But when Mr C took receipt of the car, he was required to sign a checklist that he had 
also looked over the car. So, I think some responsibility for checking the car met his 
requirements fell to him. While I can see not having a tow facility would have been an 
inconvenience for Mr C I think the problem was resolved within a reasonable time and I dont 
think NFU need to take any further action.
When the repairs to Mr Cs car were nearly complete DAS contacted him to advise of the 
next steps, that the hire car would be returned and off hired. As the hire car was provided by 
a hire company it explained Mr C would be contacted the following day to make these 
arrangements. I consider this to be fair. DAS is required to keep the costs of the claim 
reasonable and if Mr Cs car repairs were complete on a Saturday it is reasonable for the 
hire car to also be returned so that the costs could be minimalised.Mr C explained he had a family emergency at the weekend and that he was unable to 
arrange for the car to be returned. Mr C had two telephone conversations with the hire car 
provider before an extension to the hire facility was provided. Mr C was also disappointed 
that he was unable to contact NFU or DAS. Mr C has further complained about the service 
he received during these phone calls and that they added to what was already a stressful 
time.
I can see that Mr C was dealing with a serious situation when the hire car was due to be 
returned and that this was a priority to him. But I dont think it was unreasonable for the hire 
car company to attempt to off hire the car either. It is also unfortunate that both NFU and 
DAS were not available to assist him at the time, but again I don think this was 
unreasonable either. DAS had called Mr C the day before to explain the process and it is not 
unusual for this type of business to provide a limited service over a weekend.
I have listened to the calls Mr C had over this time and I dont think he was provided with a 
low level of service at any time. So, I dont think NFU should have to do anything to put this 
right.
I think the provision or a hire car for Mr C overall was dealt with reasonably. Mr C received a 
hire car within two days of his request for one. When a problem with the hire car was noticed 
an alternative was provided within a reasonable time. And when Mr C was faced with a 
family emergency an extension to the hire facility was granted. While any accident will cause 
some form of distress, I think the level of service provided to Mr C was reasonable. So, I am 
not asking NFU to take any further action to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has told us that he feels we have made an uninformed decision due to a lack of 
evidence. I have thought about what Mr C has told us, but I think I have been provided with 
the evidence I need to come to a fair outcome in relation to Mr Cs complaint, he has also 
been given time to provide any information he would like us to consider. So, these 
comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman