DRN-1245316
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H had problems with his mobile phone and made a claim under his insurance policy. Mr 
H initially had problems in February 2019 but managed to use the phone until July 2019. His 
phone was received and repaired by Assurant and it tried to return the phone to Mr H.
The initial delivery on 19 July failed and delivery was rearranged for 24 July 2019. But Mr H 
says he didnt receive it, and he was out of the country at that point in time. Assurant looked 
into this for him, but it was satisfied the phone was delivered by its courier and signed for. 
Assurant did acknowledge that it didnt communicate with Mr H about his claim very well and 
offered £30 in compensation. But Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought Assurant 
should provide Mr H with a similar make and model of phone in addition to the £30 
compensation. This is because Mr H was clearly out of the country at the time of delivery 
and no one was at his home address. So he thought the fair thing to do was for Assurant to 
replace Mr Hs phone with a similar make and model.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Although I can understand Assurants position, I think its position creates 
an unfair outcome. Ill explain why.
Assurant returned Mr Hs phone by courier in July 2019. The initial attempt at delivery on 19 
July 2019 failed and Ive not been made aware of the background to this. But Mr H was out 
of the country at this stage so the phone couldnt be delivered in any event. Mr H lives on his 
own although his young daughter stays with him from time to time, so there wasnt anyone in 
while he was away.
The courier rearranged another attempt to deliver Mr Hs phone on 24 July 2019. Mr H was 
expecting to fly back earlier than his scheduled flight but decided to keep to his original 
schedule. He had flown home and his father was unwell, so he decided to stay a little longer. 
Mr H didnt update the courier company about this and his delay which was understandable 
given the circumstances. When he returned home, in early August 2019, he looked to get his 
phone delivered.
Assurant told him the phone had been delivered to his home address and signed for. It 
looked into the circumstances surrounding the delivery and was satisfied that the delivery driver's data showed he was in the vicinity of Mr Hs house at the time of delivery. And as the 
package was signed for it was satisfied the phone was delivered.
While I accept what Assurant has said it is possible someone else signed for the package on 
Mr Hs behalf. But no one was it his address as he was out of the country and his daughter 
wasnt there as she was too young to be at home on her own. 
Indeed, Mr Hs property is split in two (property A and property B) so it is quite possible the 
delivery driver went to the wrong address. And what troubles me in this case is that the 
signature provided just says Mr Hs second name only. When I would expect there to be a 
signature, incorporating Mr Hs first name as well. Plus, there is no suggestion that whoever 
collected the package was asked for identification. And given the expensive nature of 
modern phones this is surprising. 
Given all of this. And the fact Mr H was clearly out of the country at the time of delivery 
(which isnt disputed). I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Assurant to provide Mr H with a replacement phone in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. If Mr H has purchased a new phone, given the passage 
of time, I think it would be fair to pay him the cash equivalent of a similar replacement phone.
I can see Assurant has also offered to pay Mr H £30 compensation in acknowledgement of 
its poor service and communication and I think that seems fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to provide Mr H with a replacement phone or a cash equivalent. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman