DRN-3223165
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain their insurance policy with The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) didnt provide the cover they 
expected; they say NFU settled third party claims against them which were speculative and 
led to an increase in their premiums; and theyre unhappy about poor communication from 
NFU after theyd made a claim on the policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M took out a bespoke insurance policy with NFU in 2018 to cover various 
activities relating to their smallholding.
In May 2020 Mr M was burning some vegetation on his land. He put the fire out, but it 
reignited and spread. Neighbours claimed damage had been caused to their property and 
one said theyd suffered personal injury. The police wanted to interview Mr M under caution 
in relation to an allegation of criminal damage.
NFU referred Mr M to a company Ill call company D, which administered that part of the 
policy on NFUs behalf, to discuss their legal expenses claim. Mr M was unhappy there 
wasnt any cover for his legal costs in dealing with a police investigation into a possible 
criminal damage prosecution in relation to the fire. Another insurer met those costs, but Mr M 
felt unsupported by NFU. And he was unhappy about poor communication from NFU 
generally. 
NFU accepted Mr M and Mrs M were covered under the public liability section of their policy 
for the property damage and personal injury claims made by their neighbours. But Mr M and 
Mrs M felt NFU should have rejected those claims as speculative. Theyre unhappy NFU 
decided to settle them and they say their insurance premiums increased as a result.
In response to Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint, NFU said their legal expenses cover didnt 
extend to defending a police criminal damages prosecution in relation to a domestic incident 
- so their decision not to help with that was right. They said theyd paid the neighbours 
property damage claims based on evidence from technical experts that damage had been 
caused. And they were waiting for further evidence for the claim for personal injuries before 
making a decision on that. NFU upheld Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint about poor 
communication, apologised and offered them £100 compensation. 
Mr M and Mrs M werent happy with NFUs response, and didnt think theyd looked at the 
concern theyd raised about the policy theyd been sold, so they brought their complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. Since Mr M and  
Mrs M didnt accept her view, their complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr M and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about what happened. But, having 
thought carefully about everything the parties have told me, I wont be upholding their 
complaint for the reasons Ill explain. To make things clear, Ive used headings to address 
the different parts of Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
The claim under the legal expenses insurance cover
The legal expenses section of the policy provided wide cover for the costs of pursuing civil 
claims, as well as some additional cover. However, the cover for defending criminal action 
was limited to the following:
1)[Company D] will defend an INSURED PERSONS legal rights if an event arising 
from an INSURED PERSONS work as an employee leads to:
a) an INSURED PERSON being prosecuted;

3)[Company D] will defend an INSURED PERSONS legal rights prior to the issue of 
legal proceedings when dealing with the Police where it is alleged that the INSURED 
PERSON has or may have committed a criminal offence following an event arising 
from an INSURED PERSONS work as an employee.
I think its right that there was no cover under the policy for Mr M in the circumstances of the 
fire. He wasnt acting as an employee. He was clearing his own land. And I think it was clear 
from the policy wording that he wouldnt be covered for any criminal action he might be 
subject to in carrying out such work.
The neighbours claims
Under the terms of their insurance policy NFU had the right to take over, defend or settle any 
claim made against Mr M and Mrs M.
 
I can understand why Mr M and Mrs M were disappointed NFU decided to settle the claims 
made by their neighbours in relation to property damage. NFUs investigator thought Mr M 
and Mrs M had provided reliable evidence to suggest the claims were invalid. But NFU 
received evidence from technical experts that damage had occurred. From the evidence Ive 
seen, I think it was reasonable for them to rely on that evidence in deciding to settle the 
claims as it showed damage had occurred. I note the personal injury claim was still being 
considered by NFU who were waiting for more evidence when this service started to look 
into this complaint. I think that shows they were giving the claims proper consideration, as Id 
expect, before deciding how to resolve them.  
I acknowledge Mr Ms concerns the insurance premium increased in 2021 because of the 
claims, which he and Mrs M considered were inflated, being settled. Premiums can change 
for several reasons, as NFU made clear in their renewal letters. They include claims made 
on the policy  whether or not they are successfully defended  as well as pricing changes 
for commercial reasons. Since I think it was reasonable for NFU to settle the claims, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask NFU to adjust the premium if it increased for that reason. If Mr M and 
Mrs M have more general concerns about the level of their premiums, theyd need to raise 
them with NFU as a separate complaint.
Communication issuesNFU acknowledged thered been a lack of communication between them and Mr M. I think 
its right they apologised for that and offered Mr M and Mrs M some compensation. Mr M 
thinks the compensation is too low. 
While I understand Mr M felt NFU were unsupportive, I think it was reasonable for NFU to 
refer Mr M to company D to discuss his legal expenses claim in line with the policy terms. 
I acknowledge the overall situation will have been upsetting for Mr M and Mrs M. And I can 
understand Mr M was worried about the possibility of a criminal prosecution and its potential 
impact on him. Im pleased to see another insurer met those costs and the prosecution was 
dropped. I note Mr M tried to contact NFU several times for an update on the claim. I think 
NFUs failure to respond will have caused some distress and inconvenience. Taking 
everything into account, I think NFUs apology and their offer of £100 compensation fairly 
reflects the impact on Mr M and Mrs M of what NFU did wrong. 
Sale of the policy
Mr M says when he and Mrs M bought the policy from NFU they understood it was a 
bespoke policy that would cover the wide range of activities they carried out and the property 
they owned. He says the vegetation removal that led to the fire was part of his management 
of the land to improve the habitat for shooting; he told NFU hed be doing work himself or 
using contractors; and he expected NFU to provide cover for that work. Since the legal 
expenses insurance didnt extend to the costs of representation for the police investigation, 
which arose from habitat management, he feels the policy wasnt suitable.
This was an advised sale, so NFU had a duty under relevant rules and guidance to: 
provide appropriate information to enable Mr M and Mrs M to make an informed 
choice about the cover they needed and give them time to consider it; 
assess their demands and needs and make sure the policy was consistent with those 
demands and needs, and that the advice they gave was suitable advice; and 
make sure the information they gave to Mr M and Mrs M was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Ive looked at the information NFU sent to Mr M and Mrs M from March 2018 onwards. On 
each occasion they provided a summary of Mr M and Mrs Ms demands and needs. NFU 
advised Mr M and Mrs M to check the policy wording carefully and to let them know if 
anything was unclear. They wrote to Mr M and Mrs M in early February 2020 giving them 
enough time to check their policy continued to provide the cover they wanted. And they 
offered Mr M and Mrs M the chance to review their cover at renewal, which they declined. 
Im satisfied NFU gave Mr M and Mrs M appropriate information about the cover they were 
offering and that the documents they sent set things out clearly. If Mr M was concerned 
about the possibility of a criminal prosecution arising out of his personal activities, he had the 
chance to raise that with NFU. Mr Ms told us hes been carrying out habitat management for 
many years and usually employs contractors, but due to the coronavirus pandemic had had 
to do the work himself. Im not persuaded Mr M would have questioned whether the legal 
expenses cover extended to criminal proceedings even if hed realised he wasnt insured for 
that activity in a personal capacity. Since he normally had contractors carrying out the work 
that led to the fire, I dont think he had a need for the cover at the time he took the policy out 
either. 
Even if the legal expenses section didnt provide an element of cover it should have 
provided, that doesnt mean the policy as a whole was mis-sold. I think its unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs M would have acted differently and taken out a policy that did cover the costs of criminal proceedings, since this doesnt appear to have been the main benefit Mr M and Mrs M were 
seeking to obtain from the policy. The main benefit seems to have been the wide-ranging 
cover they took out for their buildings and contents, as well as the public liability insurance 
that responded to their claim. Im not persuaded Mr M and Mrs M would have decided 
against the NFU policy given the legal expenses cover for criminal proceedings that was 
missing was a relatively small part of the overall policy. Bearing that in mind, it wouldnt be 
fair to NFU to ask them to reimburse any premiums Mr M and Mrs M have paid or to cover 
their claim. Mr M and Mrs M didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the lack of legal 
expenses cover here - their legal costs were paid by another insurer.
Whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M, bearing everything in mind, I 
think NFU have done enough to put right the impact of the poor communication with Mr M 
and Mrs M. I dont think NFU has done anything else wrong here. In the circumstances, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman