DRN-3030262
The complaint
Mr P complains Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund some disputed transactions.
Monzo says the payments were authorised by Mr P.
What happened
Mr P complained about 104 transactions on his account.  A large number of these were 
made to an online content subscription service which I will call O.  They were made over a 
five-day period between 12th and 17th February 2020.  Mr P complained about them on 18th 
February.
He told Monzo that he still had his card and phone in his possession, but he thinks the 
transactions were possible because his phone had been hacked.  He also confirmed his 
phone had been lost but had since been returned to him.
Monzo did not uphold his complaint.  In its final response to Mr P, dated 25th February 2020, 
it said it had considered Mr Ps activity on his account before, during and after the 
transactions and had concluded that a third party could not have made these transactions.
It apologised for the delay in dealing with his complaint.  It also explained that it intended to 
close Mr Ps account and was going to give him 14 days notice.  The terms and conditions 
on the account entitled it to close it without notice in some circumstances.  Monzo said that 
was the case here as Mr P had provided false information in relation to this fraud claim.  
However, it said it was prepared to allow Mr P some time.
Mr P wasnt happy with this response, so he came to this service.
Amongst other things, he told us the following:
- he had been working during the days when the transactions took place;
- his phone and card had been left in his locker and he thinks someone had managed 
to see his code to access his locker;
- he thought it was unfair of Monzo to close his account  especially as he had been 
admitted to hospital on the last day of the deadline;
- he had been diagnosed with a number of conditions and this affected the way he 
dealt with matters.  He didnt say how but he said this service had not taken these 
into account;
- he was in financial difficulties as a result of these transactions
- The website  O  is a website which saves your card details for use on subsequent 
occasions
Monzo repeated the observations it had already made in its final response.  In addition, it 
told us:
- the spending on website O was similar to previous spending on Mr Ps account;
- Mr P had been active on his mobile banking app throughout the relevant time  so it 
said he would have seen the transactions earlier and would have seen his balance 
diminish;
- there were genuine transactions made in between the disputed transactions and 
some of these were similar spending to that with O:
- having advised Mr P to request a new card, once he had activated it, he had 
registered it on Os website within 11 minutes;
- the closure of Mr Ps account was carried out in accordance with the terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator looked into matters for Mr P  but she didnt think she could ask Monzo to 
do anymore.  The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr P and Monzo have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis 
of my decision. However, I can assure Mr P that Ive read the file, including his 
comments and evidence.
In short, Monzo is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs 2017).
Authorisation is a two-stage test consisting of authentication and consent  and I remind 
myself that it is for Monzo to show that Mr P authorised the payments rather than for Mr P to 
show that he did not.
Authentication in this case is the use of Mr Ps card details  and having seen the evidence
provided by Monzo, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated. However, Monzo
also needs to show Mr P consented to the payments.
For the following reasons I think he did consent:
- the transactions took place over a five-day period.  Im afraid Mr Ps account as to 
how someone may have accessed his locker on a daily basis, and then replaced his 
phone and card without him realising just isnt plausible;
- the evidence shows Mr P was quite active on his banking app throughout the period of the disputed transactions.  Monzo has told us that its app defaults to the balance 
of the account when it is accessed.  I think its likely, therefore, that Mr P would have 
seen his money being spent;
- whilst he may not have had a relationship with O before these disputed transactions, 
he clearly had one after them.  In fact, the evidence suggests he registered his new 
card details soon after he activated the card;
- the spending on the account is indicative of someone who knew what the balance on 
the account was it stopped when there were no funds left and started again as soon 
as Mr Ps salary was paid in.  Monzo said this was paid in early using a facility on the 
account and that the request came from Mr P.  I think thats likely;
- I think that if a third-party fraudster had had access to Mr Ps account, there would 
have been attempts to use up the funds as quickly as possible.  Thats not the case 
here as they spanned a five-day period.
So, I think the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr P authorised these 
payments.
Ive thought about whether Mr P was treated sympathetically once he told us of his diagnosis 
and I think he was.  Both the investigator and I have considered this in making a decision.  
We did ask Mr P for particulars of how his conditions affected his ability in making this 
complaint, but we received no details in response.  However, I can assure Mr P that I have 
had them in my mind whilst considering his complaint.  Ive especially kept them at the 
forefront on my mind when considering whether Monzo could have done more to protect Mr 
Ps account.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However,
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank should have identified any unusual or out
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. This guidance includes persuasive evidence
of what banks can do to protect customers, especially vulnerable customers.
So, Ive looked at the activity on Mr Ps account before these transactions to O and others 
began and I cant see anything which suggests to me that Monzo ought to have detected an 
unusual spending pattern.  I say this because whilst the number of transactions may have  
increased, the value of these payments was very similar to Mr Ps usual spending habits.  
Finally, Ive considered the closure of Mr Ps account  and I dont think Monzo has been 
unfair or unreasonable in its actions.  The terms and conditions of the account allow for 
immediate closure in certain circumstances  and I can see that providing false information 
is one those.
Based on Monzos findings that Mr P had authorised these transactions, I think that closing 
his account was a fair and reasonable response.  Im pleased to see, however, that it 
allowed some time for him to find an alternative bank.
And I dont think its actions became unfair because Mr P was admitted to hospital on the last 
days of the deadline because I remind myself that he had had the previous 12 or so days to 
arrange banking facilities elsewhere.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman