DRN-2897590
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
amount that hes claimed as a result of some carpet being supplied and fitted.
What happened
Mr S used his Barclaycard credit card in August 2020 to pay £1,545 for a supplier to supply 
and fit a lounge carpet and a coir mat in the entrance of a house. The fitter caused damage 
to the newly decorated walls and skirting boards when the carpet and mat were being fitted 
in September 2020 and he says that the supplier agreed to replace the coir mat and pay for 
the decorative damage. The fitter failed to attend to replace the coir mat at the agreed time 
and Mr S made a claim to Barclaycard.
It made a chargeback claim for the £1,545 that Mr S had paid to the supplier but the supplier 
defended the claim and Barclaycard said that it was unable to take further action about the 
chargeback  but it credited a total of £150 to his account because of the way that it had 
dealt with the claim. It said that it couldnt pursue Mr Ss claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the supplier had fulfilled its obligation by supplying the carpet 
and it had no financial link with the carpet fitter.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that he paid 
the supplier to supply and fit the carpet and mat and he wasnt aware of any separate 
arrangement to pay £135 to the fitter until the fitter asked for it after the carpet and mat had 
been fitted. He says that Barclaycard should refund to him the £1,545 that hes paid to the 
supplier, pay the cost of redecorating which is £1,835 and pay him £300 plus VAT for his lost 
earnings when the supplier failed to attend to replace the coir mat. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
there had been a breach of contract in the supply of the coir mat but the supplier had agreed 
to replace it. She thought that that was appropriate and that the supplier should be given an 
opportunity to replace the coir mat. She thought it likely that damage was caused by the 
fitters but she couldnt say that the estimate provided by Mr S to rectify the damage was 
proportionate to the amount of damage  so she recommended that Barclaycard should pay 
Mr S £300 for the damage to be rectified.
Barclaycard has accepted that recommendation and says that it wouldnt consider Mr Ss 
claim for loss of earnings. It says that in disputes like this there is always some degree of 
inconvenience for customers when trying to deal with a merchant to resolve an issue. 
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that his 
losses are the full contract value paid to the supplier, the quoted redecoration costs of 
£1,835 plus his lost earnings. He says that prior to the carpets being fitted he had all the 
skirting boards and architraves replaced, a full redecoration of the ground floor and a 
ceramic floor laid in the hall. He says that the supplier was fully aware of that prior to fitting, 
the rooms and walls were unused and perfect and that he will not accept a touch up job or 
patching up - the walls must be perfect as they were prior to the carpets being fitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclaycard made a chargeback claim to the supplier for the £1,545 but it was 
defended by the supplier which said that it had supplied the carpet and had agreed to 
replace the coir mat so Barclaycard said that it was unable to take any further action 
about the chargeback  but it credited his account with a total of £150 because of the 
way that it had dealt with the claim;
it said that it couldnt pursue Mr Ss claim under section 75 as the supplier had 
fulfilled its obligation by supplying the carpet and it had no financial link with the 
carpet fitter  but Mr S says that the supplier had agreed to supply and fit the carpets, 
he had no relationship with the fitter and hadnt agreed to pay any money to it, and 
hadnt been provided with a copy of the invoice;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that 
Barclaycards response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
the suppliers invoice says that it will supply and fit the carpet and mat for £1,545  
the invoice hasnt been signed by Mr S even though there is an area for a customers 
signature  and it says that Mr S will pay fitter direct £135;
there were clearly issues when the carpet and mat were fitted and the supplier has 
agreed to replace the coir mat and I consider it to be more likely than not that it also 
agreed to make good the damage caused by the fitter;
the fitter failed to attend at the agreed time to replace the coir mat because an earlier 
job had over-run  but I consider that the suppliers offer to replace the coir mat was 
fair and reasonable and that it had arranged an appointment for the fitter to fit the 
mat;
that didnt happen and I can understand the frustration and inconvenience that Mr S 
was caused when the fitter didnt arrive, but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to pay him the £300 
plus VAT that hes claimed for his loss of earnings;
the carpet was fitted in the lounge and the supplier has agreed to replace the coir 
mat in the entrance and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Barclaycard to refund to Mr S all or any part of the £1,545 that he paid to 
the supplier;
Mr S has provided an invoice dated in August 2020 for redecorating of the entrance, 
toilet and living room of the house at a total cost of £1,832.96  hes also provided 
photos showing the damage to the walls and skirting that he says was caused by the 
fitter and a quote of £1,835 for repairs to walls and woodwork in the entrance and 
living room after damage from floor covering installation;I can also understand the disappointment and frustration that Mr S will have 
experienced about the damage to his newly decorated entrance and lounge and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the damage was caused by the fitters;
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Barclaycard to pay for the damage to be rectified  but I also agree 
with her that the estimate for the remedial decoration doesnt seem to be 
proportionate to the damage caused by the fitters and the cost of the original 
decoration;
whilst I understand Mr Ss concern about not wanting a touch up job or patching up, 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Barclaycard to pay £1,835 for the cost of the redecoration; and
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to 
pay £300 to Mr S towards the cost of rectifying the damage caused by the fitters  
and it has agreed to do so.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to pay Mr S £300 for the damage 
caused by the fitters. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to pay him a higher amount of compensation than that or to pay him for the loss of earnings 
that hes claimed. 
The supplier has offered to replace the coir mat. If that hasnt already happened and Mr S 
wants the supplier to replace it, I suggest that he contacts the supplier to try to arrange an 
appointment for the replacement mat to be supplied and fitted.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, to pay him £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman