DRN-4261299
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lendable Ltd are holding him to the terms of a loan agreement that he
says he didnt enter into.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some key events here.
Mr F says that on the evening of 4 June 2022 he was out with friends. Late in the evening he
realised his phone was lost or stolen. In the early hours of 5 June 2022, there were multiple
unsuccessful attempts to log in to Mr Fs mobile banking app (with his bank H), resulting in
the app being locked.
Mr Fs app for an account he held with another business R was accessed. And from there
debit card top-ups were made to credit the account with R, using the credentials from
Mr Fs debit card with H. There were also unsuccessful attempts to move money in this way.
Ultimately a total of £4,510 was moved from the account with H to the account with R via this
method.
Also overnight a £10,000 loan was paid into Mr Fs account with H by Lendable, following an
online application being made. And some of the funds moved to R came from this loan.
Once the funds were in the account with R, card spending took place for approximately
£4,500 which involved goods being ordered online before being collected in a store.
In summary Mr F says he knows nothing about any of this activity with either H, R or
Lendable. He says hes been a victim and didnt apply for the lending or authorise any of the
payments. He says when he saw the transactions he reported it to each business. He also
paid over £5,000 of the loan funds that had remained in his account with H back to
Lendable. Mr F complained to all three businesses.
Lendable said they couldnt do more at the time as they were awaiting a copy of Hs fraud
investigation. H essentially said that Mr F should take this matter up with R, as the funds 
were all transferred into his own account with them and they deemed R to be the point of
loss. R similarly didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
All three complaints were referred to our service. The complaint about R has already been
decided by one of my Ombudsman colleagues. A final decision was issued in December
2022 which didnt uphold the complaint. The Ombudsman said I consider it reasonable that
[R] held Mr F responsible for the payments as being authorised.
One of our Investigators considered the complaints about Lendable and H. They didnt
uphold these either. For the complaint about H the Investigator thought it was more likely 
than not that Mr F had consented to the transactions from his account. And for the complaint 
about Lendable he didnt think them holding Mr F to the terms of the loan and pursuing him 
for the outstanding debt was unfair. Mr F strongly disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman 
to review his complaint.
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as
there are some minor differences in my reasoning, Im issuing this provisional decision to
give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Im aware of Mr Fs linked complaint about H. But this decision only relates to whether
Lendable have treated Mr F fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Mr Fs strength of feeling about this complaint is clear. And accordingly hes made some
detailed submissions. Ive read and considered all Mr F has sent in, but I wont be
responding in similar detail. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the
informal nature of our service.
Obviously I wasnt present when the online loan application took place. The evidence from
Lendable shows that Mr Fs genuine details were used in the course of the application. And
Lendable say this was sufficient for them to process and agree the application. Particularly
as the funds were paid into an account in Mr Fs name. Mr F says he had no involvement in
this and only discovered it later. In these situations, I have to make my findings on balance
as to what I think is most likely to have happened.
An important factor in this is what happened to the loan funds once theyd been credited to
Mr Fs account with H. On this basis I think Lendables initial response that they were
awaiting the outcome of the fraud investigation by H was fair. Some of the funds were
moved (via debit card top-ups) to Mr Fs account with R. And from there, goods were
ordered online for in person collection. My Ombudsman colleague has already decided that
R considering those purchases to be authorised payments was fair and reasonable.
Similarly, as well as this complaint about Lendable, Ive also considered Mr Fs complaint
about H. And Im currently intending to likewise find H treating the payments to Mr Fs
account with R as authorised is fair.
Mr Fs testimony is that he doesnt know exactly how his phone was lost / stolen. He has
suggested that he must have been pick-pocketed on the night out in question and that this
could have been done soon after hed put his unlocked phone in his pocket, prior to the
phone locking itself again. He has also said that his emails within his phone werent
password protected and that they would have included a great deal of personal information
about him, as hed relatively recently moved house and documents relating to this would
have been present. Mr F also said that the PIN for Rs app was something that could be
guessed as it was based upon some of his personal information.
Again I wasnt present when these payments took place. So I have to make my findings on
the balance of probability. That being, what I think is most likely to have happened,
considering all the available evidence. The version of events Mr F has suggested to account
for the compromise of his phone isnt impossible. I appreciate that fraudsters can be
sophisticated and opportunistic as Mr F has said. I also appreciate the lengths Mr F has
gone to in pursuing his complaint, which includes reporting matters to Action Fraud, writing
to his MP and attempting to obtain CCTV from at least one of the bars he attended that
evening.
Whilst I cant be sure why this happened, it does seem strange that a third party would have
the loan paid into the HSBC account rather than the account with R (which they had accessto) knowing it would be more difficult to disperse these funds.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the most likely explanation for what went on is
that Mr Fs security to his phone and app with R was compromised. This isnt a case where
Mr Fs phone was snatched from him whilst unlocked. If a device has biometric security and
this is used (as Mr F says it was) then I think most people commonly use that functionality
rather than regularly entering their passcode, negating the likelihood of it having been
observed and used by a third party to access Mr Fs phone. And I think most people
habitually lock their phones when putting them away or into a pocket. But even if that wasnt
the case, I think the chances of someone pick-pocketing Mr F at that exact moment, and
then managing to keep the phone active long enough to change any auto-lock settings or
otherwise bypassing the security, as well as correctly guessing the PIN for his app with R
(even taking account of information that he says would have been available in his emails),
whilst not impossible, on balance is unlikely.
So against this backdrop, Im not persuaded that the most likely explanation for the loan is
that Mr F had no knowledge of it as he claims. I think its most likely that he had involvement
in the taking out of the loan such that Lendable holding him to its terms isnt unfair nor
unreasonable.
Mr F has made a number of further points, these include the time at which his loan
application was processed (that being the early hours of the morning). Hes questioned how
many applications are received at that time and why it didnt involve a greater level of
scrutiny by Lendable. Hes also referenced that there were a number of attempts to access a
third-party website through which loan applications can be processed. As well as the fact
that a different lender received a further application which hes evidenced he cancelled prior
to it being paid to him. Hes also mentioned that he doesnt think Lendables identity checks
were sufficient, and hes questioned whether confirmation of payee was used when crediting
the funds to his account with H. Ive taken account of all that Mr F has said. But none of
these points impact my overall intended decision, given I think its more likely than not that
Mr F had involvement in the loan application.
Mr F has also questioned whether Lendable could be liable for the purchases made (from
his account with R) on the basis of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). In
limited circumstances s.75 allows someone buying goods and / or services on credit to claim
against their credit provider over the actions of a third-party supplier. But here, the goods in
question werent purchased on credit. The purchases were debit card spending from an
available balance in the account with R. Whether that cash balance came from borrowed
funds, doesnt change the fact that the purchases werent made on credit. And as such,
there is no valid s.75 claim against Lendable in relation to purchases made with the loan
funds they provided.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mr F or Lendable Ltd, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Lendable responded and said they accepted my provisional decision. Mr F responded with 
some further comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that Lendables only response was to confirm that they were awaiting the outcome 
from H. He says what happened to the funds should be separate and distinct from whether 
he made the application or signed an agreement. I dont agree. I think what happened to the 
money is an important consideration when making a judgement about whether the loan was 
applied for. So I maintain that I dont think Lendable acted unfairly when wanting to see 
evidence from H. And by default, in the meantime theyd held Mr F to the terms of the 
agreement, which formed the basis of his complaint. 
Much of Mr Fs further submissions involve the affordability of the loan. He says the 
creditworthiness assessment was inadequate and explained his reasons for this. However, 
the crux of Mr Fs complaint was about Lendables decision to hold him liable for the loan, 
not that they had acted irresponsibly by lending to him. So whilst Mr F also highlighted that I 
said my decision was about whether Lendable had treated him fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances, that was in the context of the complaint hed made, that being about 
being held to the terms of an agreement he says he didnt enter into. As such, I wont be 
commenting on whether or not the lending was irresponsible and will be keeping my findings 
to the liability decision. If Mr F believes the lending is unaffordable for him, there is nothing to 
prevent him taking this up with Lendable and if that doesnt resolve matters for him, it may 
be something our service could later assist with (subject to our jurisdiction rules). 
Mr F made a further point about why he thinks the lending was paid into the account with H 
rather than R. Hes also pointed out that there were multiple applications for lending 
throughout the night. He says it wouldnt make sense if hed made the initial application, for 
him to follow on with further ones and he thinks this is indicative of someone else trying to 
obtain multiple loans. Ive considered all of these points, but as Im supportive of Lendables 
decision, I dont think any of these make a material difference. As I think Lendables 
conclusion that Mr F was involved in the loan applications was reasonable, any further 
checks at the time wouldnt have resulted in him being in a different position. And whilst the 
account into which the funds were paid is part of the overall picture, it isnt a key determining 
factor in my decision.
Mr Fs further submissions include that his phone was only passcode protected. He says 
there was no biometric security and he doesnt remember advising there was. My provisional 
decision referred to there being biometric security on the phone at the time. This was based 
on a call between Mr F and H on 6 June 2022. The context of the call was that Mr F was 
reporting that he didnt recognise the activity on his account. During that call the following 
exchange took place: 
HSBC: May I know what type of phone did you lose sir? Was it an android or an iPhone?
Mr F:   Android.
HSBC: Was there a fingerprint scanner on that phone?
Mr F:   There was yes and a passcode, so Im not too sure how this has happened to be 
honest with you.
Ive shared this exchange with Mr F and he says his answer meant that his phone had the 
functionality to use a fingerprint scanner but it wasnt in use. He also clarified that it is not a 
two-stage process and either a fingerprint (if in use) or a passcode can be used. I accept 
that its common, where a fingerprint scanner is in use, that the option usually exists to also 
use a passcode. 
But in the context of the conversation Mr F was having with H, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr F meant that he did use biometric security on his phone. Had it been an option that 
wasnt in use, I think he would have stated this more clearly at the time. Particularly as the clear purpose of the question was to ask about the security features in use to help establish 
how someone might have accessed his phone. Ultimately, given my interpretation that Ive 
explained above, Im more persuaded by this phone call which took place around the time 
rather than what Mr F has said more recently. And given this finding, for the reasons 
previously explained, Im still not persuaded there is a plausible explanation for how a third 
party could have accessed Mr Fs phone which enabled all the further activity to take place. 
Mr F has also speculated that rather than perhaps being pickpocketed, his phone could have 
been taken or lost whilst in a taxi returning him to his hotel at the end of the night. He also 
explained that he had been drinking on the day in question and thinks its a possibility that 
the taxi driver could have taken advantage of the situation. However, Mr Fs previous 
submissions to our service include an email in June 2023. In that email he said hed been in 
the bar from which he later sought CCTV evidence and that he left around midnight where 
my stay at the bar was short, due to the realisation I didnt have my device. But Mr F is now 
seeming to suggest that he did have his device when leaving the bar to get a taxi back to his 
hotel. So whilst I acknowledge Mr F has said he was drinking that day, the impact of him 
saying different things at different times makes it difficult for me to treat his testimony 
evidence as persuasive or reliable. 
I accept that this is a balanced case and that I cant know with absolute certainty what 
happened. And also that the version of events that Mr F has described isnt impossible. But 
taking account of all the information and evidence provided, I dont think the most likely 
explanation is that the Lendable loan was taken without Mr Fs knowledge or involvement. 
And as such Im not going to direct that Lendable need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman