DRN-4314804
The complaint
Ms T complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms T had a motor insurance policy arranged with Advantage covering her motorbike.
In February 2022, Ms T added her partner to the policy when it was about half-way through.
In late September 2022 Advantage called her and she agreed to renew her policy. In the call 
with Advantage, she said that her partner had points on his licence from about 2019, but she 
didnt know more about them.
Her existing policy was due to expire on 22 October and she thought she had time to provide 
extra information to Advantage. She was out of the country for about two weeks during this 
time with limited access to phone or the internet.
Hastings wrote to her and said it was going to cancel her policy with seven days notice. 
While she was overseas, she sent Hastings an email asking why her policy was being 
cancelled. Advantage didnt reply and it cancelled her policy on 12 October.
Ms T complained. Hastings didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had cancelled the policy 
due to an undisclosed conviction. It waived the amount outstanding on Ms Ts account, 
which was £39.20.
She remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and upheld it. He thought Advantage hadnt acted fairly by cancelling Ms Ts policy 
unconditionally. She had contacted it to discuss, but Advantage didnt reply and continued to 
cancel her policy.
He said it should remove records of the cancellation of the policy, confirm this in writing, pay 
the difference between the old and any new policy, refund time on cover and any 
cancellation fee, and pay Ms T £250 for her distress and inconvenience.
Ms T accepted the view, but Advantage didnt. Because Advantage didnt agree, this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider things further. This is 
included below:
Im thinking of upholding Ms Ts complaint and Ill explain why as my suggested remedy is 
different from our investigators.
At the crux of this complaint is that B says it cancelled because Ms T didnt co-operate with 
it. In correspondence with this service, it referred to this part of the policy wording:
You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your Insurer 
requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend their interests.
Ms T has said that she misunderstood the question about points on her partners licence.
When she added him to her policy in February 2022, she said Advantage asked her if her 
partner had any convictions. But she thought that the nature of his points were different 
because they were as a result of a Fixed Penalty Notice (FPN).
I asked Ms T to send me details of the conviction and she has said that it was a FPN with 
three points issued for an insecure load in 2019.
I think its fair that I say Ms T should have checked this with Advantage, and if there was any 
doubt then she should have discussed it with it.
When she told Advantage about his points at the renewal call in September, Ms T has said 
the conversation was fairly casual and she was told that Advantage would be able to renew 
her policy with possibly a slightly higher premium she later described as insignificant really.
Advantage made a telephone appointment with her to ask her for further information. When 
Ms T didnt respond, Advantage chased her twice more by phone and didnt get a reply. 
About a week after the initial call, it sent a letter cancelling the policy with seven days notice. 
This cancellation letter didnt give Ms T the option of updating or changing the details on her 
policy.
Ms Ts usual method of contact with Advantage was by email, but I cant see that it used this 
route to contact her.
Wed normally expect to see a business using two different methods to communicate with 
her, and particularly when its telling a customer its cancelling their policy as theres a risk 
that they might end up driving while uninsured.
Ms T has said that her partner opened this cancellation letter and emailed her about it as 
she was overseas. Ms T replied to Advantage about four days before the cancellation was 
due, but she didnt get a reply.
Advantage then cancelled her policy unilaterally and without responding to Ms Ts email.
Cancelling Ms Ts policy could have long lasting consequences on her as the cancellation 
will be recorded against her policy history. It could impact her ability to buy cover in the 
future, and it could impact the price she has to pay. So Id expect Advantage to make certain 
this was a fair course of action before implementing it.
Taking everything into account, I can understand why Advantage chose to cancel the policy, 
because Ms T hadnt told it initially about her partners conviction, but I dont agree with its 
decision to unilaterally cancel it. I also dont think it followed good practice in how it did so, 
and I think Ms Ts been left in a position thats potentially unfair.
I think the fair resolution in this situation is that Advantage removes records of its 
cancellation from its own and any external databases it may have updated. Once its done 
this, Advantage should confirm it to Ms T and tell her she doesnt need to tell insurers about 
it.
Ms T has told this service that she effectively lost a years No Claims Discount due to 
Advantage cancelling her policy so close to its renewal. She has also told this service about 
the high price she has been quoted to take out another policy to cover her motorbike, which meant that she didnt take out a new policy and hasnt ridden her motorbike since.
Ive thought about the impact of this on Ms Ts, which I can see from her evidence is 
continuing because of the need to disclose the cancellation.
Ive said above that I think Ms T should have discussed the FPN points with Advantage 
when she added her partner to her policy. If shed done this, there may have been a 
premium adjustment, or it may even have been impossible for Advantage to provide cover.
But Ms T would have disclosed what she needed to and the situation would be clear.
But Ive also said I think Advantages unilateral decision to cancel her policy left her in an 
unfair position, which has caused Ms T some distress and inconvenience. Ive thought about 
this and I think its reasonable that Advantage pay Ms T £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms T accepted my provisional decision. 
Advantage responded and said it had done enough in contacting Ms T three times by 
telephone, as agreed with her, to get the details of the conviction. It said Ms T hadnt called it 
back and had failed to keep Advantage updated with the correct policy details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Advantages response to my provisional decision. But as I said in 
that decision, I dont think its fair and reasonable that Advantage cancelled Ms Ts policy in 
the way that it did. 
She did try to contact it by email to discuss the matter, but Advantage didnt respond. And it 
used only one method to tell her about the cancellation, when best practice would be to use 
at least two methods.
Im upholding Ms Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove details of the cancellation from its own and any external database its 
updated.
Write to Ms T and confirm that its done this, and that she doesnt need to tell 
insurers about this cancellation in future.
Pay Ms T £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman