DRN-3547346
The complaint
Mr H complains about information he was given by Aviva Insurance Limited when he was in 
contact with them about an ongoing claim on his home emergency policy. Mr H is also 
unhappy with having to pay two policy excesses. 
Aviva are the underwriters of this policy. Any reference to Aviva also includes the actions of 
their agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H and Aviva.
I wont repeat in any great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill 
mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In summary, Mr H had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva on a property he 
rented to tenants. He made a claim in November 2021 after the tenants let him know there 
was no heating or hot water. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit the property. Mr H paid 
his policy excess of £60.
A few weeks later Mr Hs tenants let him know that there was a similar issue again. Mr H 
says when he contacted Aviva he was told this would be treated as continuation of the initial 
claim and an engineer was arranged to visit the property.
Whilst at the property, the engineer identified a secondary issue, unrelated to the first claim. 
Mr H was contacted a number of times by Aviva and was ultimately told this would be 
treated as a new claim and hed need to pay another policy excess of £60.
Mr H complained to Aviva as he says he was given wrong information, called multiple times 
and was caused general inconvenience. Aviva apologised, but didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr H then referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr H remained unhappy so 
his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision, my key considerations are:
What information did Aviva give Mr H?; 
Have Aviva acted in line with the policy terms? And;
Have Aviva treated Mr H fairly overall?
What information did Aviva give Mr H
In their final response letter, Aviva accept that they gave Mr H information (which later 
changed) about the policy excess payable. Whilst this is disappointing, they did give Mr H 
the correct information very shortly afterwards and have apologised.
Generally in this type of claim - where the same or similar issue occurs shortly after an initial 
repair, it wouldnt be uncommon for an insurer to treat them as a continuation of the one 
claim and only charge one policy excess. But in Mr Hs case he was told initially that one 
policy excess would be payable and - when the engineer visited his property on 13 
December 2021, they notified him that there was a new secondary issue  crucially, 
unrelated to the first claim. 
Based on what Ive seen, there was no reasonable way for Aviva to have been aware that 
this was a new issue until the engineer visited the property. It wouldve been helpful for all 
parties involved if Aviva had made Mr H aware that - based on what he was telling them, 
theyd be treating the two issues under one claim - but that this could change dependant on 
the engineers visit. 
Ive noted and considered Mr Hs comments about the end result/impact of the issue being 
the same as the first claim. But Ive weighed that up against the fact that a lack of heating or 
hot water can be caused by a multitude of reasons - as things can and do unfortunately go 
wrong with boilers and heating systems. 
In my opinion that doesnt mean the end result/impact was caused by the same issue  
especially such a short space of time since the first repair and the engineers notes support 
that the second claim was related to a new and unrelated issue.
I find that Aviva gave Mr H information that later turned out to be inaccurate. But this was 
given in good faith and not with the intention of misleading Mr H.
Have Aviva acted in line with the policy terms?
The policy schedule dated 9 September 2021 makes it clear that that the policy excess is 
£60 per claim. Ive seen no evidence that Mr H didnt receive the paperwork related to his 
policy.
In the important information section of the policy schedule its stated:
Paying your excess
When making a claim, your excess payment will need to
be authorised prior to the engineer arriving
As outlined above, it wasnt apparent that this would be a new claim and require a second 
policy excess before the engineer visited.
The policy terms and conditions further elaborate:
3. If you have a 'with excess' policy the amount detailed on your policy schedule will 
need to be paid each time a claim is made. Payment will be taken before we send out an engineer. Where the engineer identifies additional work is required 
which is not associated to the original problem reported you will need to raise 
an additional claim(s) and another excess must be paid. [bold added for 
emphasis by Ombudsman]
Therefore, I find that Aviva have acted in line with the policy terms.
Have Aviva treated Mr H fairly overall?
I can understand Mr Hs frustration here. Aviva gave him information which he believed to be 
accurate and this later changed. But as outlined above, this was given in good faith and Im 
satisfied that Aviva have acted in line with the policy terms.
It will certainly have been frustrating for Mr H receiving a number of phone calls whilst he 
was at work. But Im not persuaded that this means Aviva have treated Mr H poorly, unfairly 
or the impact on him is to the extent that compensation would be appropriate. An apology 
has been given and I find that sufficient in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint Mr H, but it brings to an end what our 
Service - in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Aviva - can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman