DRN-2254366
The complaint
Mrs K complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
 
Mrs K is represented by a third party.
What happened
Mrs K was approved for 40 home credit loans from 2006 to 2020. She complained to Loans 
at Home in November 2019. Its final response letter was issued after Mrs Ks representative 
had brought her complaint to this service. It outlined several issues but did accept that it was 
willing to put things right for Mrs K for the last few loans  Loans 33 to 40. It said it would 
reimburse Mrs K the interest plus the 8% additional interest, and it said it would write off the 
loans and adjust her credit file. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ks complaint and noted that he did not need to review 
Loans 33 to 40 because of Loans at Homes concession on them. Our adjudicator explained 
that he was not able to review Loans 1 and 2 as they were issued before the date in 
April 2007 when regulations allowed this service to consider complaints like this. 
Our adjudicator did not have enough information to come to any conclusions on Loans 3 to 
6. And he did think that Loans at Home ought to put things right for Mrs K from Loan 7 
onwards. 
Loans at Home disagreed about Loans 7 to 30 but appears to have conceded in relation to 
Loans 31 and 32 as well. It made submissions to us about the outcomes with which it did not 
agree. 
Mrs Ks CMC sent us some comments to counter Loans at Homes submissions, but overall 
agreed with our adjudicators findings. It sent us evidence of Mrs Ks other debts with a 
different home credit loan provider for the period 2004 to 2015. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Following the adjudicators view and Loans at Homes concessions in relation to some loans 
plus the fact that Mrs Ks representative did not disagree with the adjudicators outcome, 
then I have reviewed the loans which remain in dispute: Loans 7 to 30. 
For the avoidance of doubt the redress section includes Loans 31 and 32. And my 
understanding is that Loans at Home has not yet done what it said it would do for Loans 33 
to 40 and so these loans, all conceded by Loans at Home, will be included in the redress 
section of this decision.  
Loans at Home needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loans at Home should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Loans at Home was required to establish whether Mrs K could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
The CONC predecessor, the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guide, applicable 
to loans approved before April 2014, defined these terms in much the same way. 
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint. 
I have seen Loans at Homes further points raised for me to consider. Many relate to the 
industry as a whole and to observations about home credit when compared to other lenders. 
So, I do not address these industry-wide issues here. I have focussed on Mrs Ks complaint. 
I note that Loans at Home has accepted that as the values of the loans approved for Mrs K 
started ramping up then it ought to have started asking questions. I appreciate the 
directness of those observations. 
Using the details on the documentation Loans at Home has sent to us for review, I have 
picked up some salient facts. Loans at Home was aware that Mrs K was retired and had 
health issues. Mrs K became a widow during the lending relationship and earlier application 
forms included reference to many of the bills being paid for by her husband: as a widow then these bills inevitably must have become harder to pay on less income. And at one point 
I note that Mrs K was paying more each week to Loans at Home than she was spending on 
groceries. And that same record refers to other home credit outgoings. All these factors 
point to a person becoming more and more in debt and not able to repay easily.   
I have looked at the overall pattern of Loans at Homes lending history with Mrs K, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Loans at Home should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful - and Loans at Home should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Ks case, I think that this point was reached by Loan 7 and 
I say this because:
Mrs K had been approved for four loans in 16 months;
the borrowing increased and went from about £200 every 6 months then increased to 
£400 (two loans each time), then to £500 and then more frequent loans were 
approved. From February 2014, Mrs K often had three loans open at any one time; 
in July 2016 Mrs K was approved for a £1,000 loan when she already had two loans 
outstanding and five months later another £625; 
Loans at Home ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs K was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Mrs Ks indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Mrs K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Loans at Home. The 
loan approved in December 2016 was taken out six years after Mrs Ks first. It was 
for £625 when she already had a £1,000 outstanding loan approved a few months 
earlier. Mrs Ks first loans had been for about £200. So, I think Mrs K had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Loans at Home over an extended 
period.
I think that Mrs K lost out because Loans at Home continued to provide borrowing from 
Loan 7 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit for use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about Loans 7 right through to 40 which included the loans 
which Loans at Home has already conceded on. Loans at Home should put things right for 
all of those where it has not already done so. I include all of loans 7 to 40 in the redress 
section here for completeness. 
Putting things right
Loans at Home needs to put things right for Mrs K in relation to loans 7 to 40, loans 30 to 40 
of which it has already conceded. I understand that there is an outstanding balance for some 
of the loans. So, Loans at Home should do as  follows:
 
 refund all interest and charges Mrs K paid on loans 7 to 40;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 7 to 40 should be removed from 
Mrs Ks credit file.
If Mrs K still owes Loans at Home any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final 
loans, instead of the above redress plan for these loans, Loans at Home should remove all 
the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balances. Loans at Home should then re-
work the accounts as if all payments made by Mrs K went towards the principal. But 
importantly, Loans at Home needs to make sure that Mrs K doesnt repay more than the 
principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mrs K hasnt repaid the principal she borrowed, Loans at Home can deduct 
this from the remainder of the redress calculations. If Mrs K has already paid enough to 
repay the principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
And if Loans at Home no longer owns this debt or debts, and it wants to make a deduction 
due to the amount owed to it, then it should buy it/them back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it/them from the amount it needs to pay Mrs K.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part and S.D. Taylor Limited, trading 
as Loans at Home, should do as I have outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman