DRN-4367246
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC has failed to settle a claim for loss of rent 
under a commercial buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary the leasehold property Mr A rented out was damaged by an escape of 
water from the flat above in February 2022. A claim for damage was settled and Mr A then 
submitted a claim for loss of rent in the sum of £15,130. Zurich hasnt settled that claim. The 
policyholder is a borough council.
Our investigator ultimately didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and have read and considered everything that Mr A has 
provided. Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr A will disappointed by my 
decision, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
It is not in dispute that there was an escape of water and the RCD (electric) unit was 
replaced. What is in issue here is the period of time that the flat was uninhabitable 
and the rent refunds made. It is for Mr A to show that his claim is valid. The claims 
procedure is set out in the policy document: 
After any accident, injury, loss, or damage you or your legal personal representative 
must:
a) notify us (or the freeholder on our behalf) in writing with full particulars and 
evidence as soon as possible after the occurrence
d) give us all the information and assistance we may require
Mr A provided copies of the short-term tenancy agreements he had with the three 
tenants in the property at the time of the escape of water. These dont contain 
contact details. Mr A says that he was unable to supply the details because the first 
time he was asked for them was over a year after the water damage. I understand 
that his computer had cleared all contact details, it does this regularly after one year. 
I note that he was able to evidence that deposits were paid, but this doesnt link the 
deposit to an address. I dont find it unreasonable for Zurich to ask for tenants details 
in order to validate the claim. 
Mr A says that Zurich has the evidence it needs to support the loss of rent. He told 
Zurich that cash refunds were given to the vacating tenants by his brother. However, 
Mr A hasnt given Zurich his brothers contact details. I havent disregarded the 
tenancy surrender documents Mr A sent to Zurich showing that the tenants had 
received a refund. But I dont find it unreasonable for Zurich to require further details - 
especially in the case of short stays where there is limited corroborating evidence of 
the tenancy. 
Mr A went ahead with the repairs without authorisation from Zurich, contrary to his 
policy terms. I note that Mr A says he did try to contact Zurich, but the number wasnt 
working. So it was some months later the loss was reported. I understand that he 
was speaking to the Council  who initially told him to hold off repairs, and only 
confirmed that the repairs could go ahead in June 2022. There is no doubt that there 
was an escape of water  this has been accepted by Zurich and the earlier claim 
settled. But as Zurich hadnt authorised the repairs, it wasnt in a position to 
determine for itself whether the property was uninhabitable and for what period. I find 
it was reasonable to make enquiries to determine this issue.
Zurichs attempt to contact the electrician who replaced the unit proved fruitless. So it 
wasnt able to determine whether the unit was beyond repair. Although Mr A claims 
rent until 11 August 2022, Zurich was not able to say whether the flat was inhabitable 
from an earlier date. Mr A has now submitted to this Service an email from his 
contractor containing further information dated 23 September 2023 in answer to 
some of the queries raised by Zurich. He confirms that until the works were 
completed the property was uninhabitable. I dont find that Zurich treated Mr A 
unreasonably on the evidence it had to hand. But as the matter is not concluded Mr A 
can submit this email from the contractor to Zurich to assess. 
I understand Mr As strength of feeling in this matter. He feels that he is the injured 
party and has spent a lot of time supplying all the documents needed. He feels too 
that Zurichs agent made mis-statements and gave incorrect information in order to 
influence the claims decision. I havent disregarded his comments in that regard and 
note how stressful the situation is for him. But on the basis of the evidence supplied, I 
dont find that Zurich treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably in requiring more 
evidence to substantiate his claim for loss of rent. Of course, and as indicated above, 
it is open to Mr A to provide further evidence to Zurich for its consideration. 
For clarity I would advise that this service doesnt regulate insurers, that is the 
function of the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman