DRN-2057727
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through and agreement with 
First Response Finance Ltd (First Response).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint First Response, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then First Response, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here 
was around eight years old and had completed about 67,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if there was a fault that was developing that would render the car 
to be only worth scrap value within four months. 
Relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs within six months it is to be assumed that the 
fault is present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can prove otherwise.
So, when Mr D reported the fault identified by the breakdown service in November 2019 it 
was for the business to either accept that fault and take some action, or for them to prove 
the fault wasnt present or developing when the car was supplied.
Whilst I understand that the service completed in September 2019 didnt highlight problems 
and shows that a fault wasnt present at that time. I dont think it can fairly be said that the 
service showed a fault wasnt developing. I think First Response needed to complete further 
investigations to demonstrate this before they allowed the car to be scrapped as after that 
point it would no longer be possible to do so.
So, I think there probably was a fault developing with this car at the point at which it was 
supplied to Mr D.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix such a problem. But I think 
that repair failed as the oil flush didnt resolve the issue. In those circumstances, the 
business would then be expected to allow Mr D to reject the car and to terminate his finance 
agreement with them.
First Response authorised Mr D to scrap the car in January 2020. He says he did so in 
February 2020 and that the £247 proceeds were used to offset his debt with First Response. 
I understand that First Response dispute whether the car has been scrapped and would like 
Mr D to demonstrate that. I dont think thats necessary. Ive reviewed First Response call 
logs and can see that the advisor accepted the car had only scrap value and wasnt worth 
taking back. In those circumstances it wouldnt matter if Mr D scrapped it or managed to sell 
it, as the value was minimal, and First Response had authorised Mr D to recover what he 
could for the vehicle.
Putting things right
I dont think voluntary termination was the correct approach here and I think First Response 
should have allowed Mr D to reject the car.
So, Ive considered what they now need to do to put things right.
They should ensure the agreement is ended and they should refund Mr Ds deposit adding 
interest as hes been deprived of that money.
The car was returned to the dealership in November 2019 and wasnt driven after that. So, 
First Response should refund any finance instalments Mr D has paid since November 2019 
and they should add interest to those refunds too as hes also been deprived of that money.
Mr D completed a reasonable mileage in the car before it failed in November 2019 so I dont 
think it would be fair to ask the business to refund any earlier payments he made towards his 
finance agreement, as Mr D should pay for the use he had from the car.
I think its clear that Mr D has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take the 
car for repairs and to pursue a complaint through this service when I think First Response 
could have resolved it earlier for him. So, in the circumstances, I think First Response should 
pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell First Response Finance Ltd 
to:end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
refund Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement of this complaint;
refund any instalments paid since 9 November 2019 and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint;
pay Mr D £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue, including reference to any voluntary termination. Show the agreement as 
settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman