DRN-2129352
The complaint
Miss As complaint is that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated her unfairly in 
regard to a transaction for a deposit for a package holiday. 
What happened
In October 2019 Miss A paid a deposit towards a package holiday from a travel company 
using her Halifax credit card. She booked it online and the holiday was in January 2020. The 
booking form shows she purchased this for her and two others to go abroad. The deposit 
she paid was just under a thousand pounds and the total cost of the holiday was over £2300.
Before and shortly after booking Miss A had concerns about the baggage allowance. So she 
contacted the airline direct and discovered the allowance and felt it wasnt enough. So she 
tried to change the booking but due to the terms she couldnt. So she complained to the 
travel company. Being unsuccessful there she then complained to Halifax.
Halifax raised a chargeback, and this wasnt defended by the travel company. So Miss A has 
received all her money she paid for the deposit back. But Miss A pointed to the time and 
effort and the impact what had happened had on her. Halifax felt a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful due to it not being clear that there 
had been any breach of contract or misrepresentation in what the travel company had done. 
But Miss A, whilst acknowledging shes had her money back, feels that she should be 
compensated the same amount as the deposit for the distress and inconvenience of what 
has happened here. So she felt Halifax hadnt done enough. So she complained here. The 
Investigator felt that Halifaxs approach to the matter was fair. Miss A doesnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A accepts she made this transaction for this holiday and she hasnt disputed that she 
knew the amount she was paying. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the 
transaction was properly authorised by Miss A and correctly applied to Miss As credit card 
account by Halifax. 
Miss A has provided significant and persuasive evidence of her suffering significant health 
issues for a prolonged time. She says these have been made worse by what happened 
here. Im very sorry to hear about these health conditions and hope Miss A gets the 
treatment needed and that goes as well as it can.
After Miss A complained Halifax raised a chargeback and it was successful. So Miss A has 
had all the money she paid back. The chargeback schemes both here and more broadly, are 
run by the scheme providers (not Halifax). They are voluntary schemes and are not a right 
for consumers but rather, in this Services view, good practice for banks to use in such 
disputes. They do not however cover consequential losses or service-related issues. So 
having considered what happened here and the key issue of Miss A getting her money back 
through this chargeback I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in respect of the 
chargeback.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Miss As Halifax credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Halifax as she does against 
the supplier (the travel company) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier as long as certain conditions are met. Having considered what happened here 
Im satisfied these conditions are met in this case so a S75 claim can be considered.
For a successful claim Miss A would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the travel company with regard to the contract for the holiday. Miss As evident 
disappointment with the booking process isnt enough to uphold this complaint against 
Halifax. Halifaxs liability is limited to purely any breaches of the contract agreed and/or 
whether Miss A was materially misrepresented into agreeing the contract she otherwise 
wouldnt have done. In the event of these tests being satisfied then Miss A can recoup her 
losses and any consequential losses.
It is important to remember here that Miss A has had all her money back. So there is no 
requirement in any event for Halifax to pay her the amount of the deposit as shes had that 
back through chargeback. And Miss A hasnt pointed to any persuasive consequential 
financial losses stemming from what happened. She has focussed her complaint on the 
distress and inconvenience caused by having to complain to the travel company originally. 
But in any event Halifax isnt responsible for the customer service the travel company 
provided. It is only responsible for losses stemming from the travel company either 
breaching the contract or misrepresenting the situation so that Miss A entered a contract she 
otherwise wouldnt have done.
Miss A cancelled the holiday a significant time before she was due to fly and has explained 
she did go on holiday with another provider later. She hasnt pointed to financial losses 
suffered that she hasnt been already had returned to her, just the distress and 
inconvenience caused and what Miss A feels is improper behaviour by the travel company.
I appreciate Miss A feels that the travel company did things wrong in selling the holiday. But 
even if this was the case, its clear the travel company were willing and able to provide the 
holiday she purchased. And although Miss A points to text conversations with the travel 
company prior to booking I note that in those it makes clear that there are some flights it 
sells which have no luggage. So prior to booking online Miss A is on notice that there are 
no luggage flight options. Halifax has considered the travel company website and points to 
the availability of different classes of flights when booking along with the terms and 
conditions of the services provided. So Halifax says its clear that had Miss A wanted a 
different baggage allowance she could have purchased that at the time. But she evidently 
chose not to when she booked the flight. Having considered this Im not persuaded Halifax 
has done anything wrong here. Im not persuaded there has been a breach or a 
misrepresentation here by the travel company.
Miss A says the travel company havent complied with its obligations about the information 
provided when she bought it. Im not persuaded by this, but even if I was Halifax knows its 
good practice to try and get consumers disputes resolved through chargeback or s75. It did 
this and Miss A has got her money back. And any customer service failings the travel 
company had with Miss A wouldnt sit with Halifax anyway. So whether or not the travel 
company made mistakes doesnt make a difference here from the perspective of what Halifax did here. It is not for Halifax to pay gestures of goodwill for issues such as what Miss 
A says about the travel companys obligations when Miss As had all her money back 
already. And its not responsible for the customer service of the travel company. And Halifax 
shouldnt be punished for what Miss A says is improper behaviour of the travel company-that 
would be unfair.
Ive considered how Halifax dealt with Miss As dispute. It considered chargeback and s75 
and successfully got Miss As money back. Miss A hasnt demonstrated she had any 
consequential financial loss, so I dont think Halifax has anything more to do.
Miss A points to the call that she missed and says the business were due to call her. But 
shed bought a limited baggage package which she couldnt change as part of the terms. 
She was on notice that some flights didnt have baggage options so I dont think her 
receiving a call or not would have made a difference. And in any event shes had all the 
money she can get back refunded to her already.
Miss A points to the chargeback being successful and says it was only successful because 
she threatened legal action. Im not persuaded by this. Businesses dont contend 
chargebacks for a variety of reasons such as good customer relations, commercial reasons 
with regard to the company financing the transaction and broader commercial reasons such 
as considering it cheaper to not contend the chargeback than to contend it. So Im not 
persuaded by Miss As argument here. And even if I was-shes had all the money she can 
get back already so Halifax wouldnt need to compensate her further.
Miss A says the travel company lied to her during its text conversations. But this 
presupposes the travel company knew exactly what she was going to book some time later. 
Clearly this cannot be true. Ive considered the texts and it makes clear that some flights 
have no luggage. So Miss A was on notice of that potential issue when she made her 
booking online where all the terms and conditions are available, and she could select the 
class of flights she had. And even if it had lied (which Im not persuaded by as she had the 
terms available when she booked) shes had all the money she can get back refunded to 
her.
Miss A has said after considering earlier assessments by our Investigator that If Halifax are 
not prepared to give the full amount I feel they should (be) prepared to give something as 
they seriously let me down mentally and physically. Im very sorry to hear that Miss As 
been struggling with her health. But firstly I can see from the evidence shes supplied that 
these health issues were in place before she booked this holiday. And more importantly Im 
not persuaded Halifax has done anything wrong here. It is not for Halifax to punish the travel 
company for things that Halifax arent responsible for. Nor is it for Halifax to pay for things 
that it isnt responsible for. I think Halifax has treated Miss A fairly throughout.
Accordingly Miss As complaint isnt successful. Halifax did as it ought and got her the refund 
so that Miss A hadnt lost out. It considered the dispute as it should under both chargeback 
and s75 and I do not think its stance that it had nothing further to pay under s75 was unfair 
considering the circumstances here.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman