DRN-4275121
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a powerful car, made by a premium-
brand sports car-maker and first registered in 2019. 
Mr C acquired the car on a lease.
For the year from mid-February 2022, Mr C had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
with UKI. One of the options he chose was Guaranteed Hire Car Plus.
Unfortunately, Mr C reported that, in early November 2022, a third party had damaged the 
car.
UKI appointed a repairer and arranged a hire car for Mr C.
By March 2023, Mr C had complained to UKI that the repair was taking too long, and in the 
meantime he was having to continue to pay for the lease, but he wasnt getting a like-for-like 
hire car.
By a final response dated early April 2023, UKI said the policy didnt cover a like-for-like hire 
car. But UKI apologised for delay and shortcomings in its service and said it was sending a 
cheque for £250.00 to Mr C.
Mr C brought his complaint to us in May 2023. He said UKI still hadnt repaired the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
£250.00 was fair and reasonable, and UKI had correctly adhered to the policy terms about a 
hire car.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His car took over 8 months to repair while he was paying a monthly fee of over 
£1,000.00 and was provided with a hire car that would not cost him more than 
£200.00 a month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs policy terms included the following:
About Guaranteed Hire Car Plus 
Well give you a hire car of a similar physical size to yours, if your car is damaged in 
an incident, written off or stolen.

What well do 
Guaranteed Hire Car Plus is designed to keep you mobile while your car is being 
repaired, by providing you with a hire car thats a similar size to your car. Well 
always try to provide you with a hire car thats a similar physical size to your car, but 
sometimes one may not be available. We cannot guarantee that your hire car will be 
the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status.
The Insurance Product information Document summarised the hire car as follows:
 a similar sized car to yours
So the policy didnt entitle Mr C to a hire car that was like-for-like with his car other than in 
terms of its physical size. The policy didnt entitle Mr C to a car of a premium brand or with a 
powerful engine or of a high value or monthly cost.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr C some 
upset and inconvenience. The repair was bound to take some time. And it turned out that the 
third party wasnt insured, so credit hire wasnt a good option.
There was some delay for which UKI was responsible, including delay in an engineer 
assessing the vehicle. There were also shortcomings in UKIs communication with Mr C.
Ive thought about the impact of such delay and shortcomings on Mr C. That included 
irritation that he wasnt getting the service he was entitled to, wasted time chasing for 
progress and updates, and frustration that he wasnt going to get his car back as quickly as 
possible.
I can see why Mr C felt aggrieved that he was making lease payments for his car for months 
when UKI provided him with a lesser vehicle. Also, Mr C complained that the claim was 
taking longer than necessary.
However, he complained about the brand and monthly cost of the hire vehicle rather than its 
physical size. Keeping in mind the policy terms set out above, I dont conclude that UKI 
treated Mr C unfairly in supplying the hire car of the brand it did.
Whilst I have identified some delay for which UKI was responsible, there isnt enough 
evidence that UKIs delay (certainly its delay up to the time of his complaint that led to the 
final response) meant that UKI didnt finish the repair within a reasonable time.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to compensate Mr C for any part of his 
lease payments or otherwise to pay compensation by reference to the relative values of his 
car and the hire car.
UKI tried to put things right for Mr C with a payment of £250.00. Overall Im satisfied that this  
was fair (and in line with what I would otherwise have directed UKI to pay) for the impact on 
Mr C of the shortcomings Ive identified.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman