DRN-2103927
The complaint
Mr Hs representative has complained, on his behalf, about the advice he received from 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to transfer his defined benefits from his 
occupational pension scheme to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP). 
Mr Hs representative has said that he was caused financial disadvantage as a result and 
that the payment made to him as part of the industry wide pension review in 2001 was 
insufficient to properly compensate him for his loss.
What happened
In 1989, upon advice from Legal & General, Mr H transferred his defined benefits into a 
PPP. As part of the pension review required by the regulator at the time, businesses such as 
Legal & General were required to review the PPPs which had been sold between 29 April 
1988 and 30 June 1994 to determine whether the sale had been compliant. If it wasnt, and 
the consumer had transferred their defined benefits, a business was required to either 
reinstate the consumers benefits into their defined benefit scheme, or of this wasnt 
possible, to augment the value of their PPP in line with a defined calculation methodology.
As a result of the review of Mr Hs PPP, Legal & general offered to augment his PPP 
benefits by £4,621. Mr H confirmed his acceptance of this offer in full and final settlement on 
14 November 2001. But as a result of delays in the process, this was recalculated and 
£5,770 was paid on 1 May 2002.
Mr Hs representative complained to Legal & General on his behalf in September 2019 on 
the above basis. It said that it had already been conceded that the advice had been 
unsuitable, but the redress paid had not put Mr H into the position he would otherwise have 
been but for the unsuitable advice. Hed suffered significant past and future losses after the 
redress had been taken into account, the representative said.
Mr Hs representative asked Legal & General to undertake a fresh loss calculation, which 
could take into account the redress which had already been paid in 2001.
Legal & General didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, saying that it had carried out the review of 
Mr Hs PPP in line with the regulators requirements at the time. It said that, as this was a 
one off exercise, it wasnt prepared to review the outcome it had already reached.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Hs representative referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and noted that the representative had said 
that it thought that the redress calculation hadnt been undertaken properly. So he requested 
more information on this.
The representative responded to say that, where a business had failed to review a pension 
transaction in accordance with regulatory standards required, it needed to use the guidance 
issued in the Financial Conduct Authoritys document FG17/9  which served to update the 
redress methodology.
It also said the following:
There was no evidence that Legal & General had investigated whether reinstatement 
was possible.
There was no evidence that Legal & General had made diligent efforts to gather 
scheme information.
Legal & General had assumed that there were no discretionary increases in the 
scheme. This wasnt fair or reasonable and the requirement was that:
If it is not possible to obtain the necessary information to enable a loss assessment 
to take place because the investor or occupational scheme is unable to supply it, the 
firm should assess the loss using assumptions for the missing information made on 
the best estimate of the benefits under the occupational scheme. The assumptions 
must be specified. Likewise, if after taking diligent steps to gather it a firm still does 
not have all the information that would be desirable for a compliance assessment, it 
should make the most plausible assumptions it can.
Legal & General had assumed total costs on the PPP to be 0.75% pa, including a 
policy fee assumption of zero.
Mr Hs representative was therefore of the view that the only fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for Legal & General to rerun the redress calculation using the updated 2017 
assumptions.
The investigator considered the points made and issued his view on the matter, saying the 
following in summary:
The pension review was a one off process designed to rectify widespread mis-selling 
of PPPs. The methodology, as set by the regulator of the time, was for a business to 
firstly determine whether reinstatement into the defined benefit scheme was possible.
Where this wasnt possible, the second methodology was to put the consumer back 
in the position they would have been by way of a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions were used in that methodology, the most notable of which was 
the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at 
retirement.
Unfortunately, these projected growth rates hadnt been borne out by reality. And the 
credit crunch of 2008/09 had brought about a low interest rate environment which 
had seen the cost of annuities rise significantly.
This had meant that, for many people, the pension funds at retirement werent 
sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits.
But this position of this service was that, as the pension review was designed as a 
one of process, we wouldnt seek to undo the agreement between Mr H and Legal & 
General  even though the pension scheme benefits may now be lower than 
expected.
The investigator had sense checked the data provided by Legal & General and he 
was satisfied that it was correct. Although this service wasnt able to verify the 
calculations, if Mr H was concerned that the methodology hadnt been followed 
correctly, he was able to commission an actuary to do so.
He was also satisfied that Legal & General had investigated whether reinstatement 
into the scheme had been possible, but unfortunately it hadnt been. He said he 
would reconsider this point, however, if evidence could be provided that 
reinstatement had in fact been possible.Mr Hs representative responded to say he didnt accept this outcome, for the reasons 
already given  which they didnt think had been properly addressed.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think there is much I can meaningfully add to the assessment of this 
case already made by the investigator. I agree with his conclusions.
As the investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a once and for all 
process which was based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair 
methodology, using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension 
policy, and where appropriate, augmentation policy funds.
Its unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to fruition, and I have a great 
deal of sympathy with Mr Hs position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the pension 
review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such 
as Legal & General was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so that 
it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important 
for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial services more generally.
But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr H that the error had been 
recognised and addressed at that point in time  as Ive said above, using what were 
considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to revisit the matter many years 
later. Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at retirement rather than 
undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still acceptable  method of 
resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an augmentation sum.
To then address the specific matter of the option of reinstatement, as with the investigator 
Im satisfied that Legal & General investigated this possibility. And I note that, although the 
investigator offered to reconsider this aspect if evidence could be provided that 
reinstatement was in fact possible, this hasnt been forthcoming.
Ive also noted some of the other arguments put forward by Mr Hs representative as to why 
Legal & General might not have undertaken the redress calculation correctly, but Im not 
persuaded that the representations relating to either discretionary increases or the cost of 
the PPP would warrant a rerun of the calculation. With regard to the former, Mr Hs 
representative has said that there was no evidence to demonstrate that Legal & General had 
made diligent efforts towards gathering information on aspects such as discretionary 
increases in the scheme.
But as rightly noted, the expectation was that, where such information couldnt be obtained, 
reasonable assumptions should be made. And I dont think that, in the absence of 
information to suggest that discretionary increases were being, or would be, made, it was 
unreasonable for Legal & General to assume that none should apply. The key indicator here 
really is in the word discretionary  it would be difficult for Legal & General to assume 
something which would be entirely at the discretion of the scheme, if applicable at all. So I 
dont think that the assumption was unfair to Mr H.
Mr Hs representative has also challenged the stated cost of the PPP, but without actually 
providing information which might counter this. And as this was a Legal & General PPP, it might be reasonably concluded that it would have been in a good position to know what the 
actual policy costs were.
But if Im wrong on either of those aspects used within the calculation, Im afraid its up to Mr 
H or his representative to demonstrate why this is the case. As the investigator said, were 
unable to rerun a pension review on a consumers behalf, especially when the available 
evidence doesnt support the position that a business might have done it incorrectly. I can 
see from the correspondence on the file that Mr Hs representative is aware of the 
circumstances under which we might dismiss a case. And rerunning the pension review 
process would indeed become a significant and unwarranted impairment to our operation.
However, as the investigator also said, if Mr H considers that incorrect assumptions were 
used, or the basis of the calculation was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to 
demonstrate why and, if he deemed it necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation. 
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by Mr Hs representative  which is to rerun the calculation using the 
updated assumptions. If we were satisfied that Legal & General had undertaken the 
calculation in good faith, but that minor errors had been made, its likely that we would simply 
require it to rerun the calculation using the correct information, but also the same 
methodology and key assumptions (including growth) which existed in 2001/02. 
In closing, Id reiterate that I do have sympathy for Mr Hs position, but for the reasons given 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Legal & General to rerun its pension 
review redress calculation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman