DRN-3969990
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader, is unhappy with several aspects of the service he received from 
Santander UK Plc regarding a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr M successfully applied to Santander for a £50,000 BBL. However, when Santander 
reviewed Mr Ms account, they couldnt find evidence of the business turnover required to 
support a £50,000 BBL. So, they instructed Mr M to repay £42,000 of the loan which would 
leave him with a BBL for £8,000  which was supported by the level of business turnover 
Santander had been able to evidence. 
Mr M visited a Santander branch and made a cash deposit of £50,000 into his business 
account, incurring a £470 charge for doing so, in line with the terms of that account. Mr M 
wasnt happy about this charge and felt that had he been told about the charge he would 
have paid the money into his personal account  which wouldnt have incurred a charge  
and then transferred the money to his business account.
Mr M was also unhappy that with several other aspects of the service hed received from 
Santander, including that Santander had given him incorrect advice about the Pay As You 
Grow (PAYG) payment deferment options that were available to him and that Santander 
had humiliated him by escorting him out of branch for what Mr M felt Santander were 
incorrectly describing as abusive behaviour toward their staff. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Mr M and confirmed that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in 
charging the £470 in line with the terms of Mr Ms business account or in removing Mr M 
from branch in response to his behaviour. Santander also noted that they provide a non-
advice service and so didnt accept that theyd given any formal advice to Mr M about the 
PAYG options available to him.
However, Santander did accept that Mr M hadnt received the standard of service he should 
have received when speaking with the bank about his concerns on two occasions. 
Specifically, when a phone call had been unnecessarily discontinued and again when a call 
back that had been promised to Mr M hadnt been made. Santander apologised to Mr M for 
these instances and made payments to him totalling £125 in compensation of any upset or 
inconvenience he may have incurred as a result. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Santanders 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with both Mr M and Santander 
about it. During their review, Santander offered to reimburse to Mr M the £470 charge 
incurred because hed made a cash payment of £50,000 into his business account. 
Our investigator felt that Santanders offer was a fair resolution to that aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint. And they also felt the apology and compensation payments totalling £125 paid to 
Mr M for the telephone service issues already represented a fair outcome to that aspect of 
Mr Ms complaint. Finally, our investigator didnt feel that Santander had acted unfairly 
towards Mr M regarding the other aspects of his complaint. 
Our investigator therefore felt that this complaint should be upheld in Mr Ms favour on the 
basis that Santander should reimburse the £470 charge to Mr M as theyd offered to. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr M has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr M for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr M notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr M and Santander. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr M has raised several points of complaint against Santander. For ease of reference, I will 
address each point in turn.
£470 charge for depositing £50,000 into a business account.
Santander instructed Mr M to return £42,000 of the £50,000 BBL funds he had initially 
applied for because they had only been able to find evidence of business turnover for Mr M 
that qualified him for a BBL of £8,000. There were various options available to Mr M to return 
this money to Santander. But Mr M chose to return the money via cash deposit into his 
business account, which, as per the terms of that business account, incurred a £470 charge. 
The application of this charge by Santander doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and I feel 
that its for Mr M, as the account holder, to understand the terms of his business account, 
including any charges that may apply. 
Im aware that Mr M feels the cashier to whom he paid the money should have suggested 
that he could return the money to his BBL via an alternative channel which didnt incur a 
charge. But as explained above, I feel its for Mr M to have understood the terms of his 
accounts. And I dont feel that Santanders cashier acted unfairly by processing Mr Ms given 
instruction to them.
However, while I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly in this regard, they have 
offered to reimburse the £470 charge to Mr M. This seems like a fair resolution to me. And 
so, while I will be upholding this complaint on this basis  to formalise the offer that 
Santander have made here  I wont be instructing Santander to do anything beyond this.Incorrect advice given by Santander about PAYG options.
Mr M feels that Santander gave him incorrect advice about the PAYG options that were 
available to him. Specifically, Mr M states that a member of Santanders staff informed him 
that the capital and interest payment deferment option was only available to businesses in 
financial difficulty  which his was considered not to be at that time. 
Santander dont agree that Mr M was given any advice by any of their staff members and 
note that they operate a non-advice service whereby no formal advice is provided in regard 
to any product sales, including PAYG options available on a BBL. Instead, Santander 
maintain that Mr M would have been directed to the online portal where information about 
the various PAYG options available to him could be found, so that Mr M could then make an 
informed decision as to which option he wanted to take. 
Where the testimonies of a complainant and a respondent business differ, as is the case 
here, I must decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so  which of the two versions of 
events I feel is most plausible, on balance, and in consideration of all the information and 
evidence available to me. 
In this instance, I find the version of events put forwards by Santander to be the more 
plausible. This is because Santander dont offer formal advice on which PAYG options a 
business should take, and because Mr M did apply for the interest only deferment option via 
the online portal  which doesnt include any information which would suggest that capital 
and repayment PAYG option might have been unavailable to Mr M. Accordingly, I do not 
uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M being escorted from Santander branch for abusive behaviour.
Santander and Mr M have provided very different versions of what took place in branch 
immediately before Mr M was escorted from branch by Santander staff. Like the preceding 
section, Im unable to confirm what did or didnt happen at that time. So again, I have to 
decide which version of events I feel is most plausible.
Banks such as Santander dont generally escort account holders from branch unless their 
staff feel threatened or abused in some way. And I dont feel that it would be reasonable for 
me, given the circumstances here, to declare that Santander have acted unfairly by choosing 
to escort Mr M from branch with the well-being of their branch staff in mind. 
This isnt to say that Mr M did use threatening and abusive language to Santanders staff as 
Santander maintain. But it is to say that I find Santanders version of events to be more 
plausible than Mr Ms version in this specific instance. And I can confirm that I hold this 
position even in consideration of a recently provided witness statement from a friend of      
Mr M. As such, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Santander unwilling to provide Mr M with an appointment to discuss his BBL.
Mr M is unhappy that, before he was escorted out of branch, Santander wouldnt allow him 
to book an appointment to discuss his BBL with them. But Santander have explained that 
this was because there werent any appointment slots available at that time.
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, especially given this event took place in April 2021, 
at which time restrictions were in place because of Covid-19 which limited the number of 
customers a bank was permitted to allow in branch at any time  and therefore the in-branch 
services they could offer. I therefore wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.Telephone service issues
Mr M is unhappy with several aspects of the service he received from Santander when he 
telephoned them to try to resolve his complaints, including that he spent many hours on the 
telephone without a satisfactory resolution. 
I can appreciate how Mr M may have been frustrated in this regard. But ultimately, I dont 
feel that Santander have done much wrong here. And so, while Mr M may be upset at the 
time he spent on the telephone in complaint about the charge he incurred and the poor 
advice he felt he was given, I dont feel that his expectations in regard to those aspects of his 
complaint were reasonable, And so, I feel it stands to reason that a resolution which would 
be satisfactory to Mr M wouldnt be forthcoming.
Santander did accept that there were two instances when Mr M hadnt been provided the 
standard of service that he was entitled to expect, and they apologised to Mr M for these 
instances and made compensation payments totalling £125 to him. This seems fair to me, 
and as such I feel that Mr M has already received fair compensation from Santander for 
those specific events.
All of which means that, as explained above, while I will be upholding this complaint in       
Mr Ms favour, Ill only be doing so on a limited basis to formally instruct Santander to 
reimburse the £470 charge to Mr M that that theyve already offered to reimburse. And I 
wont be instructing Santander to take any further action beyond this.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Santander must reimburse the £470 charge to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman