DRN-2768644
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of F, a partnership, in respect of its holiday home insurance, that 
Society of Lloyd's has only paid out part of Fs claim for water damage, on the basis that it 
considers the property to be substantially underinsured.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs W took out on behalf of F a policy to cover Fs part residential and part 
commercial property. The policy renewed in subsequent years until 2019. The sum the 
property was insured for at that time was £307,000. In June 2019 the property suffered an 
escape of water and a claim was made to Lloyds. 
Lloyds appointed loss adjusters who assessed that the building was substantially 
underinsured. It assessed that the property came within the range of £352,000 - £698,000, 
using the online ABI calculator. Having regard to the propertys age (some of it dated back to 
the 17th century) Lloyds assessed the propertys value at £600,000. Given the sum insured 
of £307,000, Lloyds said it would only pay a settlement of 51% of the claim. With regard to 
the contents it accepted that these werent underinsured. However as part of the claim some 
of the contents had to be removed into storage so they werent damaged during the drying 
process. Lloyds said this came under the buildings claim, so the cost of it was subject to the 
reduction in the claim.
Mrs W said that when she applied for the policy online in 2015, they werent given any 
information about how to calculate the rebuild cost, so they assessed the value and added it 
to the costs of renovating the property, including the converting of a barn into living 
accommodation. She said they had difficulty getting an online connection, so completed the 
purchase of the policy over the phone. She received the policy documents and letters in the 
post. In respect of the 2018 renewal she says they received a version of the renewal letter 
marked v1 which didnt contain information about how to calculate the rebuild cost. When 
Lloyds responded to her complaint it sent a version of the document marked v2 which did 
contain such information. She consulted a local builder with experience of the value of 
properties in the area who said that the property wasnt underinsured.
Lloyds said the two versions of the renewal letter both contained the same information 
concerning rebuild costs, it also said the application to buy the policy was completed online 
and that there were clear instructions about how to calculate the rebuild costs, with a link to 
the ABI guidance. It didnt accept that the calculation provided by the builder could be relied 
upon, as he wasnt a surveyor. It agreed to pay for a surveyors valuation of the property for 
the next renewal.
On referral to this service our investigator said that she believed Mrs W would have seen the 
information about calculating the rebuild costs, and that the application had been completed 
online before she discussed it with the broker. With regard to the contents our investigator 
said that it was reasonable to include the drying and removal costs in the buildings claim, as 
the action was taken to prevent any damage to the contents due to the building 
reinstatement.
In response Mrs W asserted that the 2018 renewal letter didnt contain any information about 
calculating the rebuild value. She asked for evidence about what the online application said 
in 2015, but the broker wasnt able to provide this. She said that it couldnt be shown that the 
information was given online and repeated she was unable to complete the application 
online and had to do this over the telephone. Having consulted the ABI calculator she said 
that at most the property should be assessed as having a rebuild value of £352,000, 
meaning at least 87% of the claim should be paid. She further said, with regard to the 
contents that had they known the drying and removal was to be included in the rebuild cost, 
the furniture would have been left on site and F would have been entitled to the full 
replacement costs under the contents policy.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that although I have regard to the law in making my decision, I do 
so on the basis of what is fair and reasonable. I dont provide an opinion to enable F to take 
legal action. I also have to assess all the evidence on the basis of what I think in my opinion 
is most likely to have happened.
Going back to when the policy was taken out, Mrs W has told us that the application was 
made away from the property as they had such difficulty getting an online signal. From what 
I understand the application was made online and then the applicant had the option of calling 
the broker. But I believe the application was actually completed before any call was made to 
the broker. This means I have to decide whether it was more likely than not that information 
was given online as to how to calculate the rebuild value. Certainly we know that looking at 
the present day version of the website the full information is given. I take into account that 
the 2015 version isnt available, but its clear that such information was sent out with renewal 
letters at least from 2018 onwards. On balance I think it fair to say that in order to make the 
application in 2015 the applicant had to calculate the rebuild value and was referred to the 
online calculator and/or to get a surveyors valuation.
With regard to the information sent in 2018, I wouldnt necessarily expect the policyholder to 
be given detailed advice about how to calculate the rebuild value on renewal. However 
Lloyds says the information was given in detail. The copy letter they sent to Mrs W after her 
complaint is marked at the footer v2. Im satisfied that Mrs W received a document marked 
v1. Lloyds says there is no essential difference between the documents. The page which 
contains the rebuild costs information doesnt have a version number on it and is a 
stand-alone page. So I dont know whether or not version 1 had the information attached. 
But I think its more likely than not that it did. As Ive said the renewal letter isnt crucial to 
whether F received sufficient information to calculate the rebuild costs, as long as the 
document made clear that any change in value or other information has to be advised. And I 
think that it did. As a commercial policyholder I would have expected F to regularly update 
the value of its assets.
So I think F was given sufficient advice as to how to calculate the rebuild value of the 
property and that it was undervalued for insurance.
As to the value Lloyds assessed for the property, Mrs W has shown us an opinion from a 
local builder after the claim saying the property was adequately insured. Unfortunately thats 
not a surveyors opinion, and although Mrs W has mentioned getting a surveyors opinion 
she hasnt done so, on the basis that she thinks the value will probably be in the region as 
set out by Lloyds loss adjusters. I can understand that, but essentially the only available professional opinion, based on the ABI calculator, is that of Lloyds. And although it is toward 
the upper end of the range put forward, it did take account of the fact that parts of the 
property are very old and the calculator cant take account of properties of that age. So I 
think the estimate of the rebuild value is fair. And though I understand this is upsetting I cant 
say that Lloyds should make any further payment in respect of the buildings.
As regards the removal of the contents, I think this does come under the buildings policy. 
They were removed in order to avoid them being damaged by remaining in damp conditions 
and/or by the drying process. All policyholders have a duty to mitigate their loss and had the 
contents been left in the property to get damaged then I think the policy wouldnt have paid 
out. I think the drying process, part of which was safeguarding the contents by removing 
them, was part of the building reinstatement claim. The removed contents werent damaged 
by the escape of water and any preventative steps came under the buildings policy. For 
example if F had just had a buildings policy, and no contents policy, the removal of those 
contents to enable drying to take place would still be covered under buildings.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman