DRN-2937090
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of a company Ill refer to as C, complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited gave him misleading information about a life assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B is a director of C and is the life assured of the policy complained about. C is the 
policyholder but for ease I will refer to Mr B throughout.
Mr B took out a life assurance policy through his financial advisor. An application was initially 
made to Aviva in 2016 but was declined due to the countries that Mr B travelled to for work. 
Upon presenting further information Aviva agreed to cover Mr B for ten years with a loading 
on the premium for the countries he travelled to for work, as well as loading for his health 
conditions. The policy cost around £510 per month and provided life cover of just under 
£500,000.
When Aviva initially offered Mr B the policy he was unhappy with the loading for foreign 
travel. He spoke to Aviva in November 2016 and was told that when he stopped travelling as 
part of his job he could use his flexible option to remove that travel loading. Mr B went ahead 
with the policy.
In 2019, Mr B had stopped travelling for work and asked to remove the loading. Aviva 
explained that the policy couldnt be altered and Mr B would have to do a new application to 
remove the loading. Aviva explained it would need Mr Bs travel details as well as access to 
his medical records to provide a premium for a new policy. Mr B complained.
Aviva acknowledged that it had given him incorrect information in 2016 but reiterated the 
policy couldnt be altered. It offered to waive his premium whilst his new application was 
underwritten. It also refunded Mr B the travel loading applied to his policy between him 
notifying it he wasnt travelling and the date of the final response. This totalled £1,870. Aviva 
also paid Mr B £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B wasnt happy with Avivas resolution. Aviva said it had given Mr B reasonable 
opportunity to apply for a new policy whilst the complaint was ongoing. It needed access to 
his medical records, and for Mr B to have a medical examination. After the complaint 
response and another two months of waiting for Mr Bs medical details, Aviva closed the 
application. It gave further opportunities to apply for a new policy but after some time it could 
no longer process a new application due to a decision it made during the pandemic to not 
contact the NHS for medical records. 
Mr B complained to this service, he didnt feel it was fair that his policy had an increased 
premium for travel, and felt it should be removed without a further application. He also felt 
that he wasnt ever covered correctly as he found out hed need to provide a death certificate 
to claim which might have been difficult had he passed away in one of the countries he 
travelled to. Mr B believed it was unfair to continue to pay a travel loading when travel was 
restricted due to the pandemic.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva should do anything more. She said:
- It isnt uncommon for insurers to require proof of death before paying out a life 
insurance claim and Avivas requirements seemed to be reasonable and industry 
standard. This didnt mean the policy didnt cover Mr B.
- Although Aviva gave incorrect information that caused trouble and upset, the 
compensation already awarded by Aviva was in excess of what we would award in 
similar situations so she didnt recommend it pays anything more.
- Although Mr Bs policy was still live during part of the pandemic we wouldnt expect 
Aviva to refund part of the policy because he couldnt travel. The policy was live and 
was underwritten based on Mr Bs circumstances at the time it was taken out. It 
couldnt be changed without a different application which wasnt completed. So it 
wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to continue to charge the original premium.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He said that he felt the 
policy had been mis-sold to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Aviva has acknowledged that it gave Mr B incorrect information, so my decision 
will focus on whether it has done enough to put this right. I think Aviva has done enough 
here and I wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Was the policy mis-sold?
Mr B has said he believes the policy was mis-sold to him. Its important to note here that 
Aviva didnt give any advice as to whether this policy was suitable for Mr B. Mr B bought this 
through his financial advisor. But Ive considered whether the policy provided the cover that 
Mr B had asked for and I can see that it did.
I understand Mr B wasnt happy that Aviva applied higher premiums due to the countries he 
was travelling to for his work. But Aviva had applied its underwriting criteria to Mr Bs 
application and circumstances and set out to him what cover it could offer and how much 
this would cost. Mr B accepted this cover so I wont comment further on the application. I 
also dont think the requirement of proof of death meant this policy didnt provide the cover 
Mr B asked for. Its very standard for insurers to ask for proof when paying out a claim so 
this requirement wouldnt have meant Mr B wasnt covered in the event of his death.
Removing the travel loading
Much of Mr Bs complaint relates to the travel loading that Aviva added to his premium. This 
was because its underwriting criteria had many of the countries that Mr B travelled to for 
work on its high-risk list  essentially Mr Bs travel to these countries increased any risk of a 
claim having to be made on the policy. Aviva explained, in 2016, why this loading had to be 
applied. The error came in November 2016 when Mr B asked whether his policy could be 
changed when he stopped travelling for work and he was told this was possible. This was an 
error  as Mr Bs policy was a ten year term assurance policy the price was fixed for the 
term. In order for Mr B to have the travel loading removed, hed have to submit a new 
application. I can see that this was explained in a communication dated June 2016 but its 
clear Mr B was told something different in November.Mr B has obviously found this very frustrating. Its clear to me that hed have always had to 
reapply to change his premium, but he believed this wasnt case. So the additional time and 
stress that hes gone through learning this was unnecessary. But I can see that Aviva has 
paid Mr B £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused. I agree with our 
investigator that this is in excess of what this service would normally award for this level of 
inconvenience, so I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more to compensate Mr B for what 
happened.
New application
Mr B was told in 2019, when he wanted to pay a lower premium as hed stopped travelling 
for work, that he would need to submit a new application. From what I can see, this is the 
correct procedure to follow  and reflects what Aviva said originally in June 2016. Mr B was 
told that hed need to give Aviva details of the countries hed visited over the last three years, 
as well as access to his GP and hed need a medical assessment. As Mr B already had an 
increased premium due to medical conditions I dont think it was unreasonable that Aviva 
asked for access to his health records and for a medical assessment to be completed before 
it could give a new quote. Its standard for life policies to be medically underwritten.
Aviva waived premiums whilst Mr Bs new policy was going through medical underwriting. I 
can see it did this because it had previously told Mr B he could change his policy rather than 
apply for a new one. But Mr B didnt give access to his GP, and he didnt arrange to have a 
medical assessment. He didnt want to continue with an application whilst his complaint was 
ongoing. Aviva therefore couldnt process his new application. Several months later, Aviva 
made a decision to stop requesting medical information to avoid overwhelming the NHS 
during the pandemic. It informed Mr B that it could no longer accept a new application 
because it wasnt able to complete medical underwriting.
As Aviva had given Mr B several months to provide the information it needed to process his 
application, I dont consider it to have acted unfairly here. It had told Mr B that it had made 
an error, it paid him compensation but explained the correct process and that hed need to 
reapply for a new policy to pay a lower premium for what he wanted. Mr B chose not to do 
this so I dont think Aviva should be expected to do anything more in relation to this.
Premium refund
Mr B expected to be able to change his premium when he stopped travelling for work. When 
he tried to do this he was told he needed to reapply for the policy. Aviva recognised it had 
given Mr B incorrect information. It apologised that this led to delays. But Aviva paid Mr B 
£1,870 to compensate for this. This was made up of the additional premium he paid for 
travel loading from the time he tried to change his policy to the date of Avivas final response 
letter. So, whilst subsequently Mr B hasnt taken out an additional policy  during the time he 
was given opportunity to do this, he effectively hadnt paid for his travel loading. I consider 
this to be fair and I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more here.
Mr B has later said, after Aviva stopped accepting new applications, that he should be 
refunded the travel loading as he couldnt travel due to the pandemic. But Mr B had been 
given a fair opportunity to apply for a new policy and chose not to answer Avivas requests 
for medical information. Hed accepted a policy in 2016 which had a fixed premium for ten 
years and provided him with life cover whilst it was in force. So it wouldnt be reasonable to 
ask Aviva to change the policy or refund additional premiums. 
In summary, I think that Aviva has done enough to put things right on this complaint. 
Although there were errors, the compensation paid is fair and reasonable and I wont be 
asking Aviva to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman