DRN-3617922
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his accounts without notice.
What happened
Mr M says that following the loss of his job his FlexPlus account became overdrawn by £100 
 and then on 17 November 2021, it disappeared from his online banking facility. Mr M says 
this caused him a lot of inconvenience as he couldnt effectively manage his finances. 
In February 2022, Mr M noticed his Cashbuilder account had been closed without notice. He 
says that Nationwide let him know that this was due to a comment he made to its staff during 
a phone call on 10 January 2022. Mr M says he apologised for the comments and asked for 
his account to be reinstated, however Nationwide didnt agree to reopen the account.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ms complaint to confirm why both of his accounts had been 
closed. And it said that it wouldnt be re-opening these. In relation to the Casbuilder account, 
Mr M had been abusive and inappropriate to its staff member and so the terms and 
conditions of the account allow it to close an account with immediate effect in these 
circumstances.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They found that Nationwide had fairly 
closed both of Mr Ms accounts. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the customer service advisor taunted him for 25 minutes before 
he made the offensive comment  and he apologised for this. He felt that Nationwides 
decision to close his accounts was disproportionate and it should have given him a warning. 
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
The FlexPlus account was closed on 17 November 2021. I can see Nationwide sent Mr M 
letters on 12 October 2021 and 16 October 2021 asking him to make a payment to the 
account or contact it if he couldnt do this. Mr M didnt make contact with Nationwide in 
relation to the matter or make a payment to the account and so Nationwide took the decision 
to close it. This decision was also communicated to Mr M in the 16 October 2021 letter.
The terms and conditions of this account say that Nationwide can close an account with 
immediate effect where weve demanded that you repay an overdrawn balance on your 
account and you fail to do so. So, Nationwide has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. I dont find the decision to close it to be unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr Ms Cashbuilder account was closed on 23 February 2022. Nationwide say this is 
because Mr M made abusive and offensive remarks to its staff during a phone call on 10 
January 2022. I have listened to the call and I agree that Mr M made some very offensive 
and threatening remarks to the Nationwide representative, which I find to be wholly 
inappropriate and unacceptable. 
The terms and conditions of this account say that Nationwide can close an account with 
immediate effect if you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff.
 
Nationwide sent Mr M a letter on 2 February 2022 stating that the account would be closed 
on 23 February 2022. 
Given that Nationwide provided Mr M with more time than it needed to find a new banking 
facility, I think it has been more than fair here.
I appreciate Mr M thinks his behaviour during the call was in retaliation to being taunted by 
the Nationwide representative, but I cant agree with this. The staff member was trying to 
help Mr M - Ive not heard any comments that could be construed as taunting. I also cant 
agree that Nationwides decision was disproportionate. In my view, some of Mr Ms 
comments went beyond offensive language. And Nationwide has a responsibility to protect 
its staff from such comments in future, so I dont find its actions here to be disproportionate. 
Given that I have found Mr M to have displayed threatening and abusive behaviour to 
Nationwides member of staff, and Nationwide provided Mr M with notice before It closed his 
account, I dont find that it has acted unfairly in closing his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman