DRN-4343266
The complaint
Mr H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for a range 
cooker following a flood at a property he owns.
What happened
Mr H had home insurance for a property he owned and rented out as a holiday let. The 
insurance was underwritten by Fairmead. In February 2021 there was a flood at the property 
and he made a claim on the policy which was accepted.
As part of this Mr H claimed for a damaged range cooker. Fairmead declined this part of the 
claim as it said the cooker had been working when its loss adjuster had inspected it. And Mr 
H had arranged for the cooker to be removed without its authority. It said it had then been 
left in the garden for some time, and it wasnt until after this that it was inspected by a 
specialist. It said by this time it had been exposed to the elements so its most likely the 
reason it was not repairable now was because it had been left outside and not because of 
the flood. 
Mr H also made claims for loss of rent. However Fairmead didnt accept one as it said the 
policy only covered bookings that were confirmed before the flood and this one was made 
after it had happened. It also said it had reached the policy limit for contents, so couldnt pay 
for all of his costs under this part of the claim. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and some other elements of the claim. He made a complaint, in 
which he said:
He had a heating engineer look at the cooker before it was removed and they also 
concluded it was damaged and unlikely to be repairable. This is why it was removed 
in the first place.
He also said that Fairmead hadnt paid out enough for his contents claim. He said 
while it had said it had paid up to the policy limit, it hadnt provided evidence of this. 
And it had included items such as blinds and carpets, that should be included under 
his buildings cover instead. 
Fairmead had declined to cover the cost of his utility bills while repairs were carried 
out when he usually wouldnt have to cover these costs.
He also didnt think it was fair that Fairmead declined his claim for loss of rent as he 
said the guest was a repeat customer who always stayed at the property the same 
time each year, so it was an arrangement in place before the flood.
Fairmead didnt uphold his complaint so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld in part.
He thought Mr H had done enough to show that his cooker was most likely damaged by the
flood and thought Fairmead should pay 50% of the cost of a replacement. However he
thought it had acted fairly in how it dealt with the contents claim. And didnt think it should
pay for the utility bills. He also thought it had acted fairly by declining his claim for loss of rent
due to the fact the booking was made after the flood had happened, so didnt meet the
conditions of the policy cover.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He said the booking he was claiming for
was a repeat booker who stayed at the same time twice each year, so she was always
intending to stay in September, not just after the flood happened. He also thought he had
provided enough evidence to show that his cooker had been damaged by the flood so
thought this should be covered in full. And he didnt think Fairmead had acted fairly by
refusing to pay his utility bills as this was for usage by its contractors only. Finally he thought
as the blinds and carpets were fixed, they should be included in his buildings claim and
maintained he hadnt received the full settlement for his contents claim.
Fairmead also didnt agree. It said Mr H had prejudiced its position by removing the cooker
and putting it outside, which meant by the time the specialist inspected it, any damage would
have worsened. It said as it hadnt had the opportunity to inspect it before it was removed, it
could have been possible to repair the cooker for a much smaller amount. So it didnt agree
it should make any contribution to a replacement.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint came to me to decide.
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision that stated as follows:
Cooker
Fairmead has said it has declined Mr Hs claim for the cooker as it doesnt think Mr H has
done enough to show that it was damaged irreparably due to the flood. Its said when its loss
adjuster inspected it, it was working.
Ive considered the evidence provided and I think Mr H has done enough to show a valid
claim here. While Fairmeads loss adjuster inspected the kitchen at the start of the claim,
and said that the cooker was working, its provided no report to show the level of inspection
carried out or the checks that were done to show it was functioning.
Mr H has provided two reports from two different experts who inspected the cooker. The first
is from a heating engineer who inspected the cooker before its removal. He stated:
The gas [cooker] was removed from the property but before it was removed I tested it and
was unable to get it to work. This was most likely due to water entering into the unit during
the flood.
While this report is dated after the cooker was removed, the comment relates to an
inspection carried out before. As this is from a heating engineer and says the cooker was
inspected before it was removed, this persuades me that the cooker was likely damaged
before it was put outside.
The second report is from a specialist in the specific type of cooker Mr H has claimed for.
And they inspected the cooker after it was removed and concluded it wasnt economically
viable to repair.
While I appreciate by this stage the cooker had been left outside for a period of time. And
Fairmead has said that it spoke to the expert and they said the damage could have been
from the elements, as well as the flood. I have to consider this alongside the other evidence.
And Mr H has also provided a report from an inspection before the removal stating the
cooker wasnt working. Further, Fairmead has accepted a claim for extensive damage from
the flood to the kitchen. This includes the replacement of units either side of the cooker. Mr
Hs second report goes on to comment:Unfortunately when water gets into the insulation of the machine it makes it almost
impossible to repair
As there was significant damage to the areas all around where the cooker was installed, it
seems highly likely that water would have also got into the cooker. And this is also supported
by Mr Hs first report stating the machine wasnt working when it was still installed.
Based on this I think Mr H has done enough to show that his cooker was damaged
irreparably by the flood and therefore that he has a valid claim. I am therefore minded to
require Fairmead to include the full cost of a replacement cooker in its settlement.
Loss of rent
Mr Hs policy provides cover for:
Loss of hiring charges for bookings actually made and confirmed with You prior to and in the
event of the Holiday home being so damaged as to render it uninhabitable by any cause for
which reimbursement is provided under Section 1A of this Policy.
Mr H has provided an email between him and his potential guest. This is from after the flood
happened in February 2021 and in it he explains that her stay in April that year wont be able
to go ahead. He offers her the option of rolling the stay forward to September that year
instead.
The policy terms are clear that any bookings that are covered must have been confirmed
before the insured event happens. And the email provided is after the flood has happened.
While Mr H has said that the guest stays twice every year, an intention to book isnt enough
for the policy term to apply. It only applies where there is a confirmed booking and this was
confirmed before the event. As Ive seen no evidence that a booking was confirmed for
September before the flood happened, I am persuaded that Fairmead acted fairly by
declining Mr Hs claim for the lost hiring charges.
Utility bills
Mr H has also said he thinks Fairmead should cover the cost of the utility bills during the time
repairs have been taking place. As if its contractors hadnt been using the electricity he
would have disabled it as he has with other utilities.
Ive considered this but I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly by not covering these costs.
These are amounts that Mr H would have to pay for outside of an insurance claim. If there
hadnt been a flood then he would have to pay for the usage at the property. And it isnt
unreasonable that Fairmeads contactors require the electricity to remain on while they carry
out repairs. Additionally, there is no policy cover for utility bills. For these reasons I dont
think Fairmead has acted unreasonably by declining this part of the claim.
Contents
Mr H thinks that the blinds and carpets at the property should be included as part of his
buildings claim, rather than the contents.
Buildings insurance usually includes all items in the home that are permanent fixtures in the
property. Mr Hs policy defines buildings as: Any permanent structure used for domestic
purposes within the grounds of Your Holiday home including: Fixtures and fittings And 
contents is defined as: Household goods, carpets and personal Property. Money andValuables all belonging to or the responsibility of You or Your Family contained in the
Holiday home
Mr H has said he thinks the carpets and fixed blinds should be covered under buildings
rather than contents. The policy lays out that carpets are included under the contents cover,
so Fairmead has acted in line with the policy terms in this regard.
While I understand Mr Hs position about the fitted blinds, I dont think these could
reasonably be considered as buildings. They dont form part of the permanent structure.
And they can be easily removed so couldnt reasonably be described as a fixture or fitting of
the property. And while they are made to fit Mr Hs property and may not fit elsewhere, this
isnt the consideration when it comes to determining what amounts to contents.
Based on this I think Fairmead has acted fairly by not including these items in the claim
settlement under the buildings cover.
Mr H has also said Fairmead hasnt paid the full amount it owes for his contents claim. His
policy schedule confirms the limit for contents is £28,071. Fairmead has said this is the
amount it has paid in total to Mr H for his contents claim. Its provided the following
breakdown for when each payment was made:
15 April 2021 - £395.62
12 January 2022 - £2,231.00
14 April 2022 - £7,211.75
25 May 2022 - £18,232.63
If Mr H hasnt received any one of these payments then he should speak to Fairmead 
directly in order to resolve the issue. But from what Ive seen it has made payments up to the 
limit of the policy, so I wont require it to do anything differently in this regard.
Response to my provisional decision
Fairmead responded to say it didnt agree it should pay for Mr Hs replacement cooker. It 
provided comment from its loss adjuster who said that he had inspected the cooker and it 
had been working after the flood. And that it was removed from the property before they had 
the chance to do a more formal inspection. 
Mr H responded disagreeing with my decision. In summary he said:
Fairmead hadnt paid the full amount for the contents claim, and he hadnt been able 
to get any clarity from it about where the payments were made to or what they were 
for.
The blinds in the property should be included as buildings rather than contents as 
they are attached to the building. 
The booking he is claiming loss of rent for was made before the flood happened and 
he has provided proof of this from his guest.
The cost of utilities relating to the claim should be covered by Fairmead as he would 
usually have rental income to cover the cost of these bills. 
Second provisional decision
Following my provisional decision, I asked Fairmead to provide more detail about the 
payments it had made towards the contents part of the claim. As part of this, it provided an invoice with a breakdown of all the amounts paid to its supplier 
that had been attributed to the contents cover. On reviewing this invoice I agreed that some 
elements should reasonably have been included under the buildings cover, rather than 
contents. These items were:
An assessment of the building to prepare for drying works. 
Some drying work that was largely for the building rather than contents. 
Anti-microbial cleaning that was largely to the building rather than the contents.
The costs of these items added up to a total of £841.44 plus VAT, and as Mr H was only 
paid up to the policy limit for contents, I thought this amount should be reimbursed to him. 
However I also agreed there were some payments for visits included under contents that 
may have related to both the buildings and contents. But that this was hard to separate. So I 
thought Fairmead should pay a total of £1,000, plus VAT, to Mr H to make up for items that 
were wrongly categorised under the contents cover and therefore subject to the policy limit. 
As Mr H should have been paid this money as part of the original settlement, Fairmead 
should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of payment of the original 
settlement until the money is reimbursed. 
I also considered Mr Hs point about the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H during 
this time. Fairmead took some time providing detailed information about the breakdown of 
the contents claim. This meant Mr H had to chase it for the information, and it wasnt until 
this service got involved that it provided it. When it did, it became clear that some costs had 
been inappropriately attributed to the contents part of the claim. Which meant the settlement 
Mr H received was unfairly reduced. This should have been resolved correctly in the first 
place, and as it wasnt it has caused a significant delay and Mr H the inconvenience of 
chasing the information. 
Fairmead has also caused delays in settling the claim for the cooker in full, which has 
caused Mr H further distress and inconvenience. 
Based on this, I thought Fairmead should pay Mr H £400 compensation to apologise for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
However, having considered the other complaint points, I maintained my position on the loss 
of rent payment, the utility bills and the blinds, for the reasons laid out in my first provisional 
decision. 
I wrote to both sides to explain my revised provisional decision.
Response to second provisional decision
Fairmead confirmed it had no further comments to add in response to my findings.
Mr H responded with additional comments. In summary, he said:
He didnt agree that some of the items included in the contents claim had been fairly 
attributed, including storage costs.
He thought the compensation wasnt enough to make up for the time he had spent 
dealing with the claim.
He didnt think it was fair that his complaints were dealt with under one decision and 
asked that they be separated into separate complaints for each point he raised. This 
would mean he could accept those he agreed with and reject those he didnt, rather 
than having to accept or reject the decision as a whole. He said he had never disputed the carpets being included in the contents claim and 
the fact I had referenced these in the decision shows I didnt understand the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all comments received from both sides in response to my second provisional 
decision, but Ive not been persuaded to depart from my findings. 
Mr H has said that he doesnt agree the costs of storing the items of contents should be 
included against the contents part of the claim. He says they were stored in order for the 
work on the building to be carried out, so should be included in the buildings claim. Ive 
considered this but I dont agree. The costs relating to storing contents were in order to 
protect the items while work was carried out to the property, in order to prevent any further 
need to claim on the contents cover due to damage to the items. It is also usual practice that 
this will be included under contents cover rather than buildings in home insurance claims. So 
I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly by including these items under the contents cover. 
Ive also considered what Mr H has said about the level of compensation. I know Mr H feels 
strongly about the inaccurate information Fairmead has provided previously about the 
contents claim. And the time he has had to put into obtaining the correct information. And I 
agree this has been unreasonable. However, this service can't seek to punish a business, 
instead we direct them to pay compensation to make up for distress it has caused. This isnt 
calculated based on the value of a persons time, or their salary. Instead, we consider the 
impact any delays or poor service has had on the customer. 
Here, I agree Fairmead has caused significant delays by not providing the right information 
promptly. And this has caused some distress and inconvenience. £400 is in line with what 
this service has directed on complaints with similar circumstances. So I think it is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered Mr Hs request to separate his complaint into each individual issue, 
however I dont think this would be a fair approach. Mr H has raised a number of issues to 
Fairmead, and this isnt uncommon as part of one complaint. In order to ensure the 
complaint was dealt with in its entirety, I have dealt with each point he has raised in one 
decision. And it wouldnt be fair to now separate these just because Mr H doesnt agree with 
my determination on every one. 
Mr H has also raised issues about my first provisional decision. He says I referred to carpets 
being included in contents when this wasnt something he had ever disputed. I apologise for 
including this if it wasnt in dispute at the time. However regardless, this doesnt change my 
position on the outcome of the claim. And I maintain my position that the blinds would 
reasonably be included in contents cover, rather than buildings for the reasons previously 
outlined.  
Ive also considered what Mr H has said about utility bills, but it hasnt changed the position I 
laid out in my initial provisional decision. While I accept he may not have had to pay for bills 
when the property is rented, as these would be covered by rental payments, this isnt 
something that is covered by the policy apart from as part of a successful loss of rent claim. 
So I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly by not paying these amounts. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given, I see no reason to depart from the findings laid out in my second 
provisional decision. I therefore direct Fairmead to:
Accept Mr Hs claim for a replacement range cooker and include the full cost of a 
replacement in the claim settlement.
Pay 8% interest on the additional amount paid, from the date of the original 
settlement to the date the remainder is paid.
Reimburse Mr H £1,000 plus VAT for the items unfairly attributed to the contents 
claim.
Pay 8% interest on these amounts from the date of the original settlement until they 
are reimbursed. 
Pay Mr H £400 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to carry out the directions under the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman