DRN-3722234
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc
settled its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr T, a director of P, has complained on Ps behalf through a representative. For ease of
reading, Ill refer to P throughout.
What happened
P claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic. P was closed between 23 March and 4 July 2020. AXA accepted
Ps claim under Section 4  loss of revenue and appointed a loss adjuster.
P said it was told by AXAs loss adjuster that interim payments would be made, and the
claim would be finalised once it reopened. However, AXA later said that as the indemnity
period for the policy was 24 months, they needed to consider Ps losses over the 24 months
and not the time it was closed.
AXA said P had clawed back most of its losses in the few months after it reopened in July
2020 and that needed to be taken into account when calculating losses. AXA said they were
unable to establish Ps losses until the end of the 24 month period, but their approach was to
pay 50% of the 2020 losses. However, they said if P hadnt experienced a loss over the 24
month period, they would require reimbursement of any money paid.
P didnt think this was fair or in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, so it brought
its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint and recommended it be upheld. He agreed that
there was a 24 month indemnity period but thought AXA should make an interim payment for
Ps losses between March and July 2020, adding interest and an additional £250
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
P accepted our investigators recommendation, but AXA didnt. They said they had paid P
£1,850 but from April to October 2020, Ps losses were minus £10,000 due to the increased
revenue after lockdown ended. AXA said they didnt want to pay more than P was entitled to
under the policy as any overpayments would need to be repaid.
AXA said if the investigators recommendation remained the same, they could pay £250 but
not interest as there was nothing to pay interest on. As AXA didnt agree Ps complaint was
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy says:
In respect of Loss of Revenue, the amount by which the Revenue during the 
Indemnity Period shall fall short of the standard revenue:
The policy defines indemnity period as:
The period beginning with the occurrence of the damage and ending not later
than twelve months thereafter during which the result of the business shall be
affected in consequence of the damage
It goes on to say:
In the definition of Indemnity Period if the Indemnity Period in the Schedule is 18,
24, or 36 months then the above mentioned wording is deemed to be amended,
the words 12 months are replaced by 18, 24 or 36 months respectively as
applicable.
The policy schedule sets out that the indemnity period for the policy is 24 months.
As the indemnity period is 24 months AXA is able to take into account Ps loss of revenue
over the 24 months and not just the period of time it was closed. This means that if P didnt
make a loss over the 24 month indemnity period, AXA doesnt have to pay P for any losses
incurred during the time its business was closed. I think this is fair and reasonable because if
P made back the money it lost between March and June over the rest of the indemnity
period, then it has been put back in the position it would have been in without the closure.
I think AXAs position of paying 50% of the claim in lieu of the full 24 month figures is fair and
reasonable. I say this because if AXA had paid more than P was entitled to AXA would have
looked to recover the money. I note that AXA have also offered to review the settlement if P
provides details of its revenue for the 24 months. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable as it
will allow AXA to consider if anything further needs to be paid on Ps claim.
Communication about how the claim would be settled
From the information provided by P I can understand why Mr T is frustrated. I havent seen
anything from AXA to indicate that they told him how the claim would be settled, instead I
think AXA indicated to P that it would receive payment for the losses it incurred during the
lockdown.
However, P is the eligible complainant and I cant only make an award for P, as a limited
company. I havent seen anything to indicate that AXA not being clearer about how the claim
would be settled caused P a loss it wouldnt otherwise have had. I do think P would have
been inconvenienced by not knowing how the claim would be settled as it continued to
submit information for the claim because it thought it would receive payment for only the time
it was closed. I think its fair and reasonable that AXA compensates P for this and Im
satisfied that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to do this.
AXA accepted my provisional decision however, P didnt agree. P said that while AXA could 
probably technically settle the claim in the way it had, it didnt think it was a moral way to do 
so. P also asked if this was how AXA usually settled claims and said that the compensation I 
intended to award for inconvenience was low, given the time involved in dealing with the 
claim. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points P has made but they dont persuade me to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
AXA have confirmed that their practice is to settle claims in this way where the policy allows 
them to. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
I understand P believes £250 compensation for inconvenience is too low. However, when 
considering the information provided about Ps inconvenience I remain satisfied that this is a 
fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
AXA should pay P £250 compensation for its inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay P £250 compensation for its inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman