DRN-3672892
The complaint
Mr S is the director of a limited company, T, and he brings this complaint on the companys 
behalf. He complains that Metro Bank PLC asked him to repay Ts business borrowing in full 
with just three months notice.
What happened
In 2018, T took out a secured term loan and secured overdraft facility with Metro to buy new 
premises and expand its business. The total amount of secured borrowing was £835,000. Mr 
S provided a personal guarantee for that sum, and it was secured on the new business 
premises.
In 2020, T took a secured term loan of £38,000 under the Coronavirus Business Interruption 
Loan Facility Scheme (CBILS).
Soon afterwards, in June 2020, Metro made enquiries of Mr S about development work that 
had begun at the business premises. It went on to send Mr S a letter of concern in July 
2020, saying he had defaulted on Ts agreement with it, and it required repayment of all Ts 
borrowing within three months. It said it had decided to take this approach because building 
work had started on its security without its written consent, even though it had been clear 
with Mr S that he would require that consent in order to go ahead, and also because Mr S 
had drawn from Ts directors loan without its consent.
Mr S thought this was very unfair and complained. He said Metro had known from the start, 
when it agreed to lend, about his plans for the new business premises. He also said he had 
to start the work when he did because of new requirements arising from the Covid-19 
pandemic and the need to operate his business safely.
Metro didnt change its position and still wanted the debts to be repaid. It did, however, write 
to Mr S again in August 2020 re-confirming its concern about the building work it hadnt 
consented to, but removing its concern about his loan drawings.
Mr S arranged to refinance with another lender, and repaid the borrowing with Metro in early 
2021. He says he incurred considerable costs as a result, and he and his family suffered 
extreme stress. 
In response to Mr Ss complaint, Metro said it hadnt done anything wrong, and it had been 
clear with Mr S that it would need full details and various documents in respect of the 
building works on the property before it would give its consent to Mr S going ahead. But he 
had gone ahead anyway, putting its security at risk. It also said it could have sought 
immediate repayment of Ts debts, and it had been reasonable in granting three months for 
Mr S to make other arrangements.
Our Investigator concluded that Metro had been clear with Mr S that he would need its 
formal consent before starting building work on its security. But he also concluded that Metro 
had acted prematurely in asking for repayment of Ts borrowing, and said it should have 
done more to work with Mr S to find a way forward. He recommended that Metro refund 
some of the costs T had incurred in refinancing its borrowing elsewhere.
Neither Mr S nor Metro accepted that conclusion. Mr S thought he should also receive 
compensation for the extreme stress Metro put him and his family under, and pointed to 
other costs he had incurred and for which he wanted to be compensated.
Metro said Mr S had failed to stick to Ts agreement with it and it hadnt acted unreasonably. 
It also said the complaint falls outside the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction in any 
event, because the complaint relates to an unregulated commercial agreement.
The complaint was therefore referred to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. I provisionally concluded that this complaint does fall within 
the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction, but I didnt intend to uphold it. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Jurisdiction
First of all, Im satisfied that this complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider and determine.
Metro has said that Ts contract with it wasnt a regulated mortgage contract, because T was 
a commercial borrower. It has pointed to PERG 4.4.1-A G in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) handbook (which is available online), where this is set out, and has said this means 
the Financial Ombudsman Service cant look into Ts complaint.
Metro is right to say that Ts borrowing with it was commercial and therefore unregulated. 
That means its not subject to FCA regulation, and neither T as a micro-enterprise nor Mr S 
as director was, for example, entitled to the same protection they would have had as a 
personal, non-business customer. But this doesnt mean that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant consider Ts complaint.
The Dispute Resolution rules (known as DISP) in the FCA handbook set out the scope of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. They say, at DISP 2.3.1R:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying out one or more of the following activities: []
(3) lending money secured by a charge on land []
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
So the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt limited to considering regulated agreements only. 
Metro lent T money secured by a charge on land, and we can consider complaints arising 
from such an agreement  regulated or not. Our Investigator pointed this out to Metro, and 
so its disappointing to see that Metro has maintained its wrong position on this.
For completeness, Im satisfied that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction in all other 
respects as well. Metro falls within our compulsory jurisdiction and did at the relevant time, T 
is a micro-enterprise, and Mr S has brought this complaint within the relevant time limits.I turn now to the merits of this complaint.
Merits
Mr S feels Metro treated him very unfairly in asking for Ts borrowing to be repaid at short 
notice, particularly against the background of the coronavirus pandemic, which was having a 
significant adverse impact on his business. He also says Metro knew about his plans for the 
property and it had no basis for taking the action it did.
I think Metro did know when it granted the initial lending that Mr S had plans for work to the 
new premises. Its records from 2018 reflect that; specifically, they say the new property 
needed refitting to accommodate Ts business, and planning permission was already in 
place to convert part of the property from one flat into two. 
However, the building work which Mr S went on to do was far more extensive than that and 
included an extension. And, importantly, Im satisfied that Metro told Mr S on several 
occasions in 2019 that he shouldnt go ahead without first obtaining its formal written 
consent, as follows:
- On 9 April 2019, following a visit from Metros staff to the property in late March 2019, 
Metro sent T a letter of concern saying: As confirmed at the meeting no works or 
alterations are to be made to the building without Metro Banks written consent in line 
with the legal documentation that you have signed in accordance with the facilities.
- In the same letter, it asked Mr S to provide full details of planning permission, plans, 
costings, schedule, builders details, and source of funds. It also said: The Banks 
appetite for development of this sort is very limited and if we were to consent then we will 
want a monitoring surveyor to act on our behalf which will add further cost so this should 
be included in your budget.
- An e-mail from Metro to Mr S on 24 April 2019, saying: any request to make structural 
changes to the property charged as security by Metro Bank would require our prior 
consent.
- In response to an e-mail from Mr S saying: I will furnish you with the detailed plans and 
costings you are asking for once the amended plans have been approved and before 
any work commences, Metro confirmed in its 2 May 2019 e-mail: You will require this 
consent from Metro Bank in order to make any structural changes.
I dont consider Metros position here unreasonable or unusual. I find it reasonable that a 
lender would want to understand and agree to significant redevelopment of its security 
before work begins. Metro wanted to assess the risks and benefits of the work, and to do 
that it wanted the various documents and information it had asked Mr S for. 
Mr S didnt provide any of that and went ahead with the building work anyway in 2020. He 
says he had no choice but to start work, because the coronavirus pandemic meant he 
needed more space to operate his business safely. I recognise that he was in a difficult 
position. But Metro had told him clearly that he shouldnt make structural changes to the 
property without its formal written consent. He didnt seek that consent before starting the 
work.
In these circumstances, I find Metro was entitled to ask T to repay its borrowing. 
Commencement of the structural work without its consent was a breach of its agreement 
with T, as set out in the loan terms and security documents. The terms provided for it to require immediate payment of the debt in this situation. Metro instead gave three months 
notice, and in the event it allowed around six months for the borrowing to be repaid. In all the 
circumstances, I think that was fair, and Mr S was able to make alternative arrangements 
with another bank in that time. 
I dont share the Investigators view that Metro should have done more to explore the 
situation with a view to formally consenting to the structural work. Its records satisfy me that 
it did look at the situation, but chose not to reconsider. That was a decision for it to make, 
and I dont accept that it should have done any more given that Mr S knew about its 
requirements before he began the work but chose to ignore them, and Metros assessment 
of matters as they stood. It follows that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr S and Metro to let me have any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Mr S said he was very disappointed with my provisional decision, and he had asked Metro 
for its permission before starting any structural work. He said he had only done some 
clearance and fencing at that stage, and Metro hadnt told him to stop the work.
Metro said it had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Metro was clear in its written correspondence with Mr S that he needed its consent 
before carrying out structural work. As I set out in my provisional decision, that was in 2019  
before Mr S started the work. And Ive found nothing to indicate that Metro gave its 
permission at any point for the work to go ahead. 
I see no basis on which to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman