DRN-4108080
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and removed his overdraft 
without prior notice. He says this restricted his day-to-day expenditure, limited his ability to 
make withdrawals on cryptocurrency platforms, caused him to make alternative 
arrangements to receive money, and impacted his credit file. He also complains HSBC failed 
to issue a final response letter within eight weeks of his complaint. He wants his account 
reopened and compensation for the financial loss and suffering he experienced.
What happened
The facts that led Mr S to bring his complaint to our service are well known to both parties, 
so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC could end their relationship with Mr S. Generally, our service will not interfere with a 
firm exercising their discretion unless their reasons were plainly unfair or due to an error. My 
role as an ombudsman is not to decide the parameters of HSBCs commercial appetite.
Mr S wants to know why his account was closed, but HSBC are not obliged to reveal their 
reasons to him, so I dont require them to reveal them now. But Ive reviewed the basis of 
their decision and Im satisfied it was legitimate. So, I dont require HSBC to reopen his 
account.
HSBC should close an account by giving the correct notice. Here, Mr Ss account was 
closed immediately. Ive considered the relevant terms of the account and reviewed all the 
information and evidence, and Im satisfied HSBC were able to close his account without 
warning. So, Im not awarding him compensation because of the difficulties he went on to 
experience. Mr S overdraft was also revocable at any time. I find HSBC did not need to 
continue to provide him with the facility even though he found it useful.
Mr S says HSBC failed to issue their final response letter within eight weeks of his complaint. 
Complaint handling is not a financial service and not something I can consider under our 
services jurisdiction. So, HSBC not meeting a complaint handling timeline is not something I 
have considered. 
But if Mr S was really unhappy about the delay in receiving HSBCs explanation about why 
his account was closed and overdraft removed, then this is part and parcel of how HSBC 
administered its business in relation to the financial service they provided, and it does fall 
within our jurisdiction. I am not, however, awarding him compensation on this point. HSBC 
didnt have to reveal their reasons to him, and I doubt receiving this information earlier would 
have changed how he felt.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman