DRN-1994082
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) refused to 
make a chargeback request on his behalf.
What happened
Mr B purchased picture frames from an online retailer. When the frames arrived Mr B felt 
they werent the same as he had ordered and asked for a replacement. Mr B didnt receive 
the replacement frames so he telephoned Tesco to arrange a chargeback request. Tesco 
refused the request on the basis they didnt feel it would be successful. Mr B then 
complained to Tesco.
Tesco say they have acted in line with the scheme rules and are not obliged to initiate a 
chargeback if they have reason to think it might be unsuccessful. In this case they felt the 
difference in the colour of the frames to the online picture wasnt a strong enough reason to 
pursue the chargeback. Tesco felt that the retailers website was clear about its 
responsibilities on returning made to measure items. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and Tesco hadnt responded to further correspondence he had 
sent and he referred the matter to this service.
The investigator gathered all of the available evidence and upheld Mr Bs complaint. The 
investigator felt that from the information he had seen and following discussions with the 
retailer, there was sufficient evidence to suggest the chargeback would have been 
successful. The investigator recommended Tesco make a compensation payment of £75 to 
Mr B. 
Tesco disagreed with the investigators view and felt they had acted correctly in refusing the 
chargeback and asked the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I have come to a different view to the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision. In coming to my decision I have considered whether Tesco 
should have initiated a chargeback in this instance.
A chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers (like Tesco) and merchants. Its worth mentioning chargeback schemes are 
voluntary, but its generally good practice for a business like Tesco to attempt a chargeback 
when a customer asks it to. That said, its not to say that a business should always attempt 
to use the chargeback process just because a customer asks it to. A business is entitled to 
look at the dispute a customer has raised and, if it doesnt look like the dispute will be 
successful  then it can decline to raise it. But it should have good reason to do so and it 
should explain that to its customer.
Here I can see that it would be frustrating for Mr B to have received his goods and they didnt 
appear the same as advertised on the website. In this case Mr B ordered frames but felt the 
natural wood colour looked different from the website so he asked the retailer for a 
replacement which didnt materialise and as a result he contacted Tesco to process a 
chargeback. 
After looking at the information provided by Mr B, Tesco didnt feel the claim would be 
successful and refused to initiate the chargeback. Tesco said the retailers website showed 
consumers should ask for a sample before ordering - as the retailer would not be held 
responsible after the order had been processed.  
Tesco is entitled to use its discretion when deciding whether or not to raise a chargeback 
and its not for this service to tell it otherwise. But we can look at whether Tesco has given 
the matter due consideration and Im satisfied it did here. Tesco looked at the documentation 
provided and in their view decided the retailers website disclaimers concerning returning 
made to measure items were enough to mean the claim wouldnt be successful. 
The investigator did call the retailer to understand if they would have accepted a claim like 
this, but having listened to the call I dont think this gives a clear indication that a claim back 
would have been successful. I say this as the retailers member of staff during this call to the 
investigator did say at the outset, potentially they might decline the chargeback as their 
frames are made to measure. 
In any event, as I have mentioned previously, our role isnt to tell the credit card issuer how 
they should come to a decision when it decides to refuse to process a chargeback. 
While I realise Mr B will likely see this differently, Tescos refusal to initiate the chargeback is 
reinforced by the fact that Mr B subsequently went through the courts to try to obtain a 
financial settlement rather than the retailer agreeing to refund him. This suggests that the 
retailer may have refused a chargeback, giving reason to suggest this may not have been 
successful and on balance supports Tescos decision not to have processed the 
chargeback. In any event, pursuing this claim legally is a separate and very different process 
to a chargeback  which is ultimately whats relevant here.
On balance, looking at all the evidence, as mentioned above, I am satisfied that Tesco acted 
fairly when deciding not to process the chargeback for Mr B.
I understand that a replacement frame was eventually sent to Mr B, which is good to see. 
On the matter of Tesco not responding to Mr Bs letters following their final decision, while it 
would have been preferable for a letter reiterating its final decision to have been sent, Tesco 
had no obligation to do so. Businesses are entitled to try and draw a line under complaints 
and thats what Tesco did here -correctly point Mr B to this service in their final response 
letter. I am satisfied this doesnt  justify a compensation payment as Mr B had the 
opportunity to contact this service immediately after he received the final response from 
Tesco, but he chose not to.
While my decision will be disappointing to Mr B, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Tesco.
I gave both Tesco and Mr B until 5 August 2020 to accept or reject to my provisional 
decision, Tesco have accepted my provisional decision but Mr B has made a number of 
additional comments which I will address.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Mr B suggests that Tescos explanation behind their decision not to process the chargeback 
hadnt previously been provided to him in their final response letter and as a result he hasnt 
had a chance to respond. 
Tesco gave a less detailed explanation to Mr B at the time of the refusal to process the 
chargeback and in their final decision letter to Mr B. But they told him why they hadnt raised 
the chargeback and while they didnt go into the detail he may have wanted, I think they 
communicated the reason fairly. Tesco may have gone into more detail as a result of this 
services investigation, but Mr B has now had an opportunity to understand what Tesco has 
told us and respond to us too.
Mr B confirms his previous view that because the retailer subsequently sent him a different 
frame it supports a chargeback would have been successful. While Mr B is entitled to 
disagree, I am satisfied this has been covered in my provisional decision. What is important 
here is that Tesco felt the chargeback wouldnt be successful under the voluntary terms of 
the chargeback scheme. Thats a decision I still think they were entitled to reach and did so 
fairly here.
Mr Bs final point is that in my provisional decision I stated he went to the courts to obtain a 
financial settlement when in fact he simply used this as a threat to resolve the issue. I have 
taken this into account when reaching my final decision here. It may help to explain that Mr B 
does say in his complaint to this service he wanted compensation for the time and effort in 
commencing legal proceedings and produced a copy of the court document he had 
completed. So his time and effort in taking action like this, even if it was just a threat, was 
something I was aware of in reaching my provisional decision. But I thank him for clarifying 
the position here.
So while I understand Mr Bs point here it doesnt alter my view that he felt he needed to 
take this action before the retailer would refund his money. 
While my decision will be disappointing to Mr B, nothing I have seen alters my view and I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman