DRN-3690179
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt assist him during a time 
when he was experiencing financial difficulties. He says he was misadvised and is being 
charged too much interest and various other charges on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Nationwide. And on a number of occasions since 2019, both 
charges and interest have been added to his account. Nationwide says this is because either 
the balance owing hasnt been paid in full by the due date, or interest has been charged on 
merchandise or cash withdrawals. 
Mr C says that hes a vulnerable customer due to financial difficulties. He says that since 
2019 hes experienced infrequent employment and has been impacted by Covid19 
restrictions. As such, hes had to rely on credit. He feels Nationwide hasnt been very 
understanding to his situation.
Nationwide says that it wasnt aware of his difficulties. But it says once Mr Cs issues came 
to light it proposed three payment plan options which it believes should help Mr C with his 
repayments.
But Mr C says that hes spent a lot of time on the phone to Nationwide trying to sort this out 
and he says Nationwide misadvised him. He says both the interest and charges hes being 
charged are excessive and he wants them reimbursed. He says that owing this additional 
money has caused him considerable stress and anxiety. He says other banks have assisted 
him, so why cant Nationwide. So, he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said that Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong.  
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to make sure Nationwide has treated Mr C fairly and reasonably and in line with 
regulation and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance.
When a customer doesnt run their account as they should, they may be breaching the terms 
of their account. And when this happens the business can apply a charge. The Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT) say that credit card providers need to apply a fairness test to the charges it 
sets. The OFT doesnt say what a fair charge should be. But it did say that it wouldnt take 
action if charges were set at £12 or below.
Mr C says the charges hes being asked to pay are excessive. Looking at the terms of Mr 
Cs credit card I can see that late payment fees are £12. This is clearly set out in the terms 
and is in the range of what wed expect the charge to be. As such I wouldnt say that adding 
a £12 charge if payment is not received in time is unfair or excessive. 
Id also say the same for the cash advance usage interest charge. The terms are very clear 
that an interest rate of 2.5% or a minimum of £3 will be added to any amount withdrawn as 
cash. And again, this is in line with the rest of the industry so I wouldnt consider this unfair 
or excessive. 
Mr C says that the charges hes incurred are contrary to Section 9 of the Lending Code, and 
section 5.14 of the Banking Code of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). 
Section 9 of the Lending Code is very much in line with our approach. Wed expect a credit 
provider to be sympathetic and positive when considering a consumers financial difficulties. 
And although there is an onus on consumers to try to help themselves, wed expect a credit 
provider to proactively look for signs that a consumer is struggling  even if the consumer 
hasnt contacted the credit provider. Where a credit provider has identified that a consumer 
could be in financial difficulties it should contact them to discuss how it might help them. 
BCOBS is similar. It expects a firm to treat its customers fairly, in particular a customer it has 
reason to believe is in financial difficulty.
Mr C exceeded the limit on his credit card on three occasions. Once in September 2019 and 
twice in May 2020. He says it was clear from his statements that he was in hardcore 
borrowing over a prolonged period and he says Nationwide shouldve done more. 
I can see from the notes provided that Nationwide contacted Mr C each time he went over 
the limit and asked him was he ok financially. In 2019 he said he was ok to make the 
payment on the account. In 2020 he said on both occasions it was an oversight and was ok 
to pay. 
So, I think Nationwide has carried out its duty under the lending code. It identified a potential 
issue, and it called Mr C. Nationwide was sympathetic but accepted that Mr C wasnt in any 
financial difficulty based on what he told them. Mr C says Nationwide shouldve done more 
to help at this time. He said it was clear he was in financial difficulty, from looking at his 
account. But I dont agree. He was paying off what was owed regularly, and when 
Nationwide did contact him, he said everything was fine. Further to this, there is an onus on 
the consumer to help themselves and engage with Nationwide. So, I think that overall 
Nationwide acted in accordance with the rules and guidance set out by the FCA. 
In early 2021 Mr C spoke to Nationwide about charges hed incurred in September, October, 
November, and December 2020, and in January and February 2021. During this call Mr C 
admitted that he was experiencing financial difficulties. He said he was embarrassed to 
admit it and hed been struggling since 2019. He said his employment had been impacted by 
Covid19, and hed been furloughed from work. During this conversation Mr C was advised 
about the Covid19 payment holiday plan, and this was explained to him.
At this point Nationwide reviewed Mr Cs account. It refunded two interest charges from 
January and February 2021 as a gesture of goodwill. They also discussed the Covid19 
holiday plan, which Mr C availed of even though it was deemed a short-term fix. 
In order to try and help, Nationwide sent Mr C an income and expenditure plan. It was during 
this time that there was a misunderstanding about freezing the interest on Mr Cs account. 
Nationwide shouldve explained the full plan and it shouldve been clearer with the next steps. From what I can see Nationwide acknowledged this error, and paid Mr C £50 for any 
inconvenience caused by the misinformation received. It also presented Mr C with three 
payment plan options, and suggested that Mr C pick one, without the need of having to 
waste time with the income and expenditure plan. And as I noted above, it withdrew interest 
charges in January and February 2021 as a gesture of good will.
From what I can see, the late payment charges and interest charges on cash withdrawals 
are all fine. These charges were incurred and its clear from the account terms and 
conditions what these charges are for. I appreciate Mr C says they are high, but its up to 
him how he uses the credit card and withdrawing cash comes at an additional cost which is 
set out in the account terms and conditions.
 
In terms of what Nationwide did, I think its done all it needs to under the rules and guidance 
set out. It noticed some irregularities, and it asked Mr C about this. Initially Mr C said 
everything was fine. But when Mr C said he was having difficulties, Nationwide waived two 
sets of interest charges and it placed him on a Covid19 Holiday plan. Nationwide then set 
out payment plan options for Mr C going forward. I agree Nationwide did make an error. But 
it apologised and it offered £50 in compensation, which is in line with what I would expect.
I know Mr C is going to be disappointed with this outcome. But under the rules and guidance 
we have, I think Nationwide has done enough, and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman