DRN-3564973
The complaint
A company Ill call S has complained that Folgate Insurance Company Ltd (Folgate) unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim for losses arising from the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with Folgate. It is a furniture manufacturer.
S claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Folgate declined the claim. It considered the claim under the damage section of 
the policy and the extension for infectious disease. It said the claim wasnt covered because 
Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and wasnt on the list of specified diseases 
covered by the policy.
S complained to Folgate. Unhappy with Folgates response, S brought its complaint to us. 
Our Investigator investigated Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
S asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus on 
what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ss business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Folgate has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ss claim.
The core business interruption in the policy covers loss:
as a result of interruption of, or interference with the business following loss, destruction or 
damage to the premises and/or property insured as a result of:
insured perils 1-8 under Section one: 
Buildings and Section two: 
Contents 
Damage is defined as:
Accidental loss or destruction of or damage to the property insured.
The insured perils or causes of damage in sections one and two of the policy include 
accidental loss or damage and others such as fire and storm which are not relevant here. 
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ss business 
interruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss or damage to buildings or 
property used by S at its premises. I dont think this would provide cover for Ss claim, 
because I dont think the business interruption was caused by accidental loss or damage.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Ss property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused accidental loss or damage to Ss 
property. So, I think Folgate was correct to say Ss claim is not covered under this part of the 
policy.
There is an extension in the policy for business interruption, covering losses arising from 
any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises.
Notifiable Disease is defined as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by:

any of the following human infectious or human contagious diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, 
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Yellow 
Fever 
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ss policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. Some 
diseases which were notifiable for some time before Covid-19 are not included in the above 
list. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering any new diseases just because 
they are notifiable diseases. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to S. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Folgate to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman