DRN-2956849
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of B complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under its 
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
B has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. It made a claim on that policy to 
cover its business losses arising out its closure from March 2020 due to the national 
government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19. Covea declined 
the claim because it said B didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming for. Mr P didnt 
agree. He felt Bs income had reduced dramatically as a result of being closed and that the 
policy offers cover for SARS, which is the same disease as Covid-19, so Bs claim should be 
covered.
Our investigator considered Bs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.
She said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation B found
itself in. Mr P doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on B. But for 
the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover B is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks.
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The
starting point is to consider the specific policy B took out. As such Ive considered every
aspect of the policy B holds with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that
would require Covea to meet the claim like the one B is making.
Mr P has told us that B wasnt able to operate from March 2020 due to the government-
imposed lockdown. The policy provides cover for several things, including infectious 
diseases, business interruption and denial of access. Ive considered those sections below.
Infectious Diseases
The Covid-19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a government-imposed
lockdown. Mr P feels that this section of his policy offers cover in these circumstances. Ive
considered what hes said about this and though I accept this section offers cover in certain 
circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here.
Under this section the policy covers:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local
authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person
whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The term Disease is defined as:
 any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis acute infectious
hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism brucellosis cholera diphtheria
enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS)
infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy
malaria measles meningococcal septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet
fever smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough
and yellow fever.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides B with cover in the current circumstances, as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and
updated on a Government-defined list. Bs policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses.
I know that Mr P feels strongly that Bs claim should be covered because the policy does
cover SARS. He says Covid-19 should fall into that classification and has produced a
number of articles, links and a vaccine certificate which he feels supports this.
I agree that SARS is a type of Coronavirus and that both are viral infections. But I dont think
that means the policy can or should fairly be read as covering Covid-19. Whilst the policy
does not define what SARS is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an
infectious disease in its own right. SARS also appears as a specified disease in the
Governments list of notifiable diseases as distinct from Covid-19. This is confirmed by the
World Health Organisation who acknowledged that whilst the two illnesses were related,
they were different and caused different diseases. Because of this I dont agree that Covid-
19 can be treated as SARS for the purpose of attracting cover under the policy terms.
Rather I think the term SARS used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised 
medical illness. And whilst I appreciate that the diseases are part of the same family, I think
to interpret them interchangeably would render the list Covea has set out, redundant.
The fact that SARS is listed separately and that Covid-19 is different in its make up is, in my
view, enough for me to determine that Covid-19 does not fall within this term in the policy
and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to treat the policy as if it did.
This position is also supported by recent case law. In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers
Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 the Judge was presented with an argument that
Covid-19 fell under various other diseases listed in an insurance policy. It was held that the
key to cover was the disease itself and not how it was brought about.All in all, although I agree that B had to close due to a government order and that there may 
well have been a case of Covid-19 either at the insured premises or within 25 miles of it, I 
dont think the Infectious Diseases section of the policy covers Bs claim because Covid-19 
does not fall within the definition of Disease set out by the policy.
Business interruption and Denial of Access
Ive also thought about whether the business interruption and denial of access sections of 
the policy apply here but I dont think they do.
The business interruption section only responds when there has been an Incident as
defined, caused by specified risks under the Material Damage section of the policy.
Incident is defined as an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business
carried on at the Premises. And Damage means physical loss or destruction of or
damage to property. Equally, the Denial of Access section of the policy requires there to be
Damage, as defined, in the vicinity of the business premises which prevents or hinders the
use of or access to the Premises before a claim can be considered. Nothing in those
sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by way of Disease as defined by
the policy, a disease such as Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they
refer to physical damage. Because of that I cant say either of these sections would respond
in the circumstances of Mr Ps claim.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Covea acted unfairly by turning down 
Bs claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr P but I hope Ive
provided him with a thorough explanation of why his policy doesnt offer cover in the
circumstances of his claim.
In closing, I can assure Mr P that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgment on appeal
from the High Court in relation to business interruption insurance policies in January 2021
has had no bearing on the outcome of this particular complaint. Thats because the policy
that is the subject of this present complaint wasnt being considered by that appeal.
My final decision
I dont uphold Bs complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P on behalf of 
B to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman