DRN-1728930
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the amount shes been paying for her home insurance policy over the 
years. The insurance policy is with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
  
What happened
Mrs B has had home insurance with Lloyds since 2008. It started off costing £209.73, with 
the premium rising each year until 2014 when it was costing £534.24. The price was reduced 
to £243.94 in 2015, following the removal of accidental damage cover. The price then started 
to rise again.
Lloyds initially rejected Mrs Bs complaint, but later looked into her concerns further, and 
decided to make an offer to resolve it. Lloyds explained that while the prices charged were 
correct and in line with their practice at the time.
Lloyds offer was a refund of some of the premiums, relating to the cost of the policy in 2013 
and 2014. The offer for that was £155.39, plus interest at 8%, and Lloyds added an 
additional £100 compensation.
An investigator here felt Lloyds offer was fair, explaining that new policy prices are often 
discounted, and thats why some of the rises will have occurred. He agreed with Mrs B that 
there came a point where Lloyds pricing had led to Mrs B being treated unfairly, considering 
that she was unlikely to have always realised the need to shop around each year to get a 
better price. And wouldnt have known that her policy price wasnt as competitive as it had 
been in the beginning.
Mrs B didnt agree the offer was fair and she said her most recent policy went up by over 
£120, yet with a relatives intervention was reduced by £88. Mrs B thinks this is unfair and 
puts people of her generation at risk of paying too much for their insurance.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Bs concerns here, but I think Lloyds offer is fair, Ill explain why.
It may first help for me to explain a little about the way Lloyds was pricing their policies. They 
provided new customers with discounts as a way of being competitive. They then gradually 
increased the price to bring the policy up to what they felt was the right price, given their 
view of risk and needs as a business to make a profit. On the face of things, there was 
nothing wrong with Lloyds doing this.
However, we feel that where theres a lack of engagement from a consumer there may be a 
point where the price increases start to become unfair  given what other prices mightve 
been available to them if theyd shopped around.
In Mrs Bs case Lloyds offer represents a refund of increases after her policy had renewed 
four times, so after 2012. I think its likely at that point Lloyds ought to have realised Mrs B 
was unlikely to contact them about her policy price, and that thats where things started to 
become unfair.
So, the refund offered by Lloyds is for the amount charged over and above the price charged 
in 2012 for the years 2013 and 2014, adjusted slightly to take account of inflation. I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to have refunded more than the difference from 2012, even if its possible
Mrs B couldve found cheaper premiums elsewhere. Thats because the level of cover can 
differ, and it isnt known what other prices wouldve been available at the time. Its likely the 
cheaper ones may have had less cover or included the new customer discounts Ive spoken 
about to.
And the reason its only for those years is because in 2015 the price was significantly 
reduced. This was in part due to Mrs B removing the additional accidental damage cover she 
was paying for. But it was also because she was being treated as a new customer again, so 
received a new customer price.
 
This meant the premiums started to rise again from 2016. As Mrs B had engaged with 
Lloyds in relation to the price of her policy, I think it wouldve taken a few years for those 
rises to be considered unfair. And I note more recently that, with the help of a relative, Mrs B 
has contacted Lloyds about the price of her policy, and been given a discount. So, I think 
shes protected herself in that respect.
I understand that not everyone will have relatives who can help, and that some customers 
may not realise what they have to do to get a competitive price. Nor will everyone know that 
loyalty isnt always rewarded in the way they might hope or expect.
The wider picture isnt for me to comment on in this decision, as Im only considering Mrs Bs 
circumstances. But, if she isnt already aware, Mrs B may be reassured to learn that the 
Financial Conduct Authority, the industry regulator, has been looking into matters such as 
those raised in this case. And its set out proposals to help deliver fair value to all insurance 
customers.
Turning to the compensation offered by Lloyds. I appreciate it must have been upsetting to 
have found this unfairness, but I think £100 is a fair reflection of this, when considering the 
awards we make.  
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should put things right as follows:
Refund to Mrs B the difference between the premiums charged in 2012, and those 
charged in 2013 and 2014  adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index.
Add 8% interest* per annum simple to the above refunds, from the date they were 
paid to the date the refund is issued.
Pay Mrs B £100 compensation for the upset caused by this matter.
* HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman