DRN-2957751
The complaint
Ms P complains about the delay and the misinformation that she experienced when she tried
to make a change of borrower application to Nationwide Building Society to remove her
husband from the mortgage. The application was unsuccessful, and she later got a
mortgage with another lender. Ms P wants Nationwide to repay her £6,000 that she had to
pay her husband resulting from the delays and to refund the early repayment charge (ERC)
that she had to pay.
What happened
Ms P and her husband had a mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage was first taken out in
2013 and there was further borrowing in 2017. Ms P and her husband separated in August
2019. Ms P remained in the family home with her two children. Ms P began negotiations with
her husband to buy out his interest in the property and it was agreed that Mr P would get
£48,000 to be paid by Ms Ps parents on the basis that he would get this money quicker than
going through the courts. Ms P then contacted Nationwide so that she would be solely
responsible for the existing mortgage balances.
Ms Ps made several applications to Nationwide. After the first application was declined on
affordability, Ms P says that she was told that if she was able to provide proof of paying the
mortgage on her own and proof of income and outgoings over a three-month period, a new
application would likely be successful. But after waiting this period, a further application was
rejected. Ms P was then told that she had outstanding loans that affected the affordability.
Ms P says she was told by Nationwide that if she cleared £6,000 on interest free loans that
her application would be successful.
Ms P paid off the loans, but her further application was unsuccessful on affordability
grounds, although she was now £260 per month better off. Ms P suggested that her parents
act as guarantors or as joint borrowers. But Nationwide was unwilling to entertain these
possibilities as it said that such applications didnt meet its lending criteria. At this point.
when Ms P challenged the underwriters decision, Ms P became aware that Nationwide had
a loan cap of 4.75 x income that she says was preventing her getting a loan.
Ms P pursued her application with Nationwide because she faced an ERC if she went
elsewhere. As a result of the delay Ms Ps husband demanded an additional £6,000 which
Ms P felt she had to pay. Ms P says that had she been told of the loan cap earlier she would
have moved to a new lender long before August when she did move and could have resisted
her husbands demand for the increased payment. Ms Ps complaint is that Nationwide
unfairly refused her change of borrower application and gave her incorrect information which
delayed her moving to another lender.
Nationwide responded to her complaint to say that its underwriters felt that based on her
income amount Ms P had insufficient disposable income to support the original loan amount
requested.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that
Nationwide should have informed Ms P of the salary multiplier criteria at the start which
would have avoided the several applications, and this would have mitigated her worry and
stress. Because of that she suggested Nationwide pay compensation of £400. But our
investigator didnt believe that Nationwide was responsible for the £6,000 extra that her
husband demanded nor for the ERC, as she believed that Nationwide fairly assessed the
application.
Ms P disagreed saying in summary that she should have been told that she would not be
offered a mortgage anywhere near the amount requested because of the income multiplier
regardless of any special circumstances related to affordability. This caused unnecessary
delays and financial loss as her husband demanded more money because Ms P had not
complied with the quick settlement that was agreed. Ms P feels this loss should be
compensated. Ms P, however, recognises that as she would have had to leave Nationwide
the ERC was applied correctly.
Nationwide also disagreed with our investigator saying in summary that it reviewed the
application outside of its normal criteria including the income cap at 4.75 x gross income. It
says that it assessed both applications in June 2020 outside of its normal lending criteria, but
these were considered unaffordable and so not in the best interests of Ms P. Therefore, it felt
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld on the grounds stated by our investigator but
accepted that it was incorrect to tell Ms P that there was an income cap which would have
caused her distress as a cap wasnt applicable in this case. It felt that an award of £100 was
more appropriate.
My provisional decision
I reviewed this complaint and came to a different conclusion than our investigator. So, I 
issued a Provisional Decision as follows:
Ms P found herself in a very unfortunate situation and has been trying to deal with it as best
she can with the assistance of her parents. Ms Ps complaint against Nationwide is that it
gave her false expectations that her change of borrower application would be successful
when in fact because of the income cap it was never going to be.
The problem with that is that if I look at Nationwides decision process on her application on
2 June 2020, it shows that Nationwide was looking at going outside its normal policy but felt
that there werent surplus funds each month which would be available if there was a rise in
interest rates. My view from the notes is that Nationwide simply wasnt going on the income
multiplier to determine affordability but was looking at the monthly management of the
account. The application was reassessed on 11 June which was also a decline. But its also
clear the assessment wasnt solely based on the income cap but looking at the affordability
of the mortgage in the future. So, I cant agree that Nationwides consideration of the
application was solely based on the income cap and that it was inevitable that Ms Ps
application was always going to be unsuccessful because of it.
I found that Nationwide had gone a lot deeper than that in assessing affordability and it
assessed Ms Ps application outside its normal criteria. It says that it did so in respect of the
applications in June which were reviewed by their underwriters and considered unaffordable
and in Nationwides view not in the best interests of Ms P. In my view the application was
fairly assessed outside the normal lending criteria and not simply according to the income
multiplier.
Ms P had several discussions with Nationwide staff before June and understood that bywaiting for three months and by showing her management of the mortgage in her sole name
that the application would be successful. Ms P was also told to pay off certain debts which
would help the application. I can see that if Ms P did these things that it would certainly
present a stronger case to an underwriter and this advice is the sort of assistance that I
would expect a mortgage adviser to provide. But doing these things wouldnt automatically
guarantee a loan and I see nothing from Nationwide confirming that to be the case. That
said, I expect that by doing these things it may have been helpful for Ms P in obtaining a
loan elsewhere, as good sole management of the mortgage account and clear credit cards
would benefit a future application. So, I cant fairly criticise Nationwides mortgage adviser for
suggesting these to Ms P.
Whilst recognising the strength of feeling that Ms P has about this, I cant fairly say that
Nationwide has done much wrong. When Ms P asked for the mortgage to be transferred to
her sole name, she was asking Nationwide to increase its risk exposure and it was required,
under the relevant rules, to conduct an affordability assessment. The advisers suggestion to
Ms P to strengthen the application was appropriate and I can understand why, with the ERC,
Ms P might have wanted to see if her application with Nationwide was successful before
trying elsewhere. My view is that Nationwide considered a loan to Ms P outside its normal
lending criteria but after giving fair consideration didnt approve the application. I do find that
Nationwide has been poor in setting out its stall as to the considerations behind its decision
and Ms P was left with the impression and the distress that Nationwide had not given her
application fair consideration and based its decision solely on the income cap.
Ive also considered Ms Ps complaint that Nationwide was responsible for the delay which
led to Mr P requesting an increased payment of £6,000 in the divorce. Ive several issues
with that. Firstly, I dont consider that there was delay. Nationwide gave advice to Ms P
about structuring her application for a charge of borrower That took some time but, in my
view, there was no unacceptable delay although it was ultimately unsuccessful. Secondly,
although Mr P refers to the delay in getting the matter sorted, from the texts Ive seen, his
reason for looking more money is that after talking to a mortgage advisor, he needed more
money to fund a deposit for a new property. It seems that Mr Ps change of mind was linked
to that rather than any delay. 
Finally, this issue relates to the division of the matrimonial estate and I cant see how it could 
be fair that Nationwide, a mortgage lender, should be responsible for the payment of one 
partys share of the estate to another in the divorce. But, based on the poor communication 
referred to above, I uphold this complaint and believe that compensation of £200 is 
appropriate.
After issuing this provisional decision I invited further submissions from Ms P and 
Nationwide. Nationwide had nothing further to add. Ms P replied saying in summary that 
Nationwides failure to disclose the income multiplier cap severely prejudiced her including in 
her negotiations with Mr P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms Ps further submissions. As Ive said above, the evidence is that 
Nationwide in deciding on this application wasnt constrained by the income multiplier cap 
and made a decision based on Ms Ps individual circumstances that it felt that she couldnt 
afford this mortgage if interest rates changed. So, as the income multiplier cap wasnt central 
to Nationwides decision, I dont accept that Nationwides failure to disclose it to Ms P prejudiced her position. Nor, as Ive set out above was there unreasonable delay by 
Nationwide in coming to a decision. 
I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for Mr Ps change of mind as to the settlement 
figure with Ms P. This seems to be related to the amount he required for a deposit on a new 
property when he started to look at properties. In any case what figure the parties come to 
as a settlement in a matrimonial dispute is a matter between the parties. The point being 
made by Ms P, I believe, is that Ms P was in a better position earlier rather than later and 
she suffered because of Nationwides delay. But I dont consider there was any delay and I 
dont believe that, in any case, Nationwide actions should be geared to favouring one party 
in a matrimonial dispute when both parties were customers or that its fair to ask Nationwide 
to make up part of the financial settlement between the parties.
Ive reviewed the points made by Ms P, but it doesnt change my view that my Provisional 
Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint and on that basis, I uphold his 
complaint in part. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms P £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman