DRN-3967923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about delays by AXA Insurance UK Plc in dealing with the 
claim they made on their property insurance following an escape of water in their kitchen.
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, Mr and Mrs P lodged a claim with AXA following a water leak in 
their kitchen. 
After several weeks, the floor was lifted.  Other tiles were found underneath, which it was 
suspected contained asbestos.  Mr and Mrs P were told the tiles needed to be tested to 
check they could be safely removed before work could progress.
The tiles did contain asbestos.  But Mr and Mrs P have said that it was five months before 
they were removed from their home  which caused them considerable worry about the 
impact this was having on their and their familys health.
After the tiles were removed, there were further delays in progressing the repairs.  Because 
the kitchen had to be removed and re-installed, Mr and Mrs P were provided with a kitchen 
pod, which they were to use for 12 days.  But the delays meant they ended up relying on it 
for nine weeks.  
Mr and Mrs P complained to AXA about what had happened  and about the many hours of 
calls they made to try and get matters progressed.  AXA accepted that there had been 
delays in progressing the claim, specifically in relation to the asbestos removal, the kitchen 
pod and in arranging storage for their possessions while repairs were done.  To compensate 
Mr and Mrs P for what had gone wrong, AXA waived the £500 excess due in respect of the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs P didnt feel this sufficiently compensated them for what had happened and 
brought their complaint to our service.  Our investigator asked AXA to provide their business 
file to help her assess the complaint.  AXA didnt provide this.  So the investigator 
considered the complaint on the basis of the information available.
She concluded that the £500 Mr and Mrs P had received  by not having to pay their excess 
 wasnt sufficient to compensate them for what had gone wrong.  So she said AXA should 
pay them a further £500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P have accepted the investigators view.  AXA havent responded.  So Ive been 
asked to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, in line with our investigators 
view.  Ill explain why.
AXA didnt respond to receiving our investigators view, or to my notifying them that, in the 
absence of a response, Id make my decision based on the information available to me.  So 
thats what Ive done.
Ive read the information Mr and Mrs P have sent us.  As AXA said in their final response 
letter, its inevitably disruptive to have to make an insurance claim.  But Ive no doubt the 
situation was made considerably worse by the delays by, and lack of information from, AXA 
and their agents.  AXA have recognised this.  So Ive focused on whats the right level of 
compensation to recognise what happened. 
Putting things right
AXA have already compensated Mr and Mrs P by waiving the £500 excess theyd otherwise 
have to pay.  When they came to us, Mr and Mrs P thought this didnt go far enough to 
compensate them and that £5,000 was a more appropriate amount for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd suffered  though they did, reluctantly, accept the investigators view.  
Its clear from the comments Ive read that Mr and Mrs P were most concerned about being 
exposed to asbestos in their home.  Thats understandable, given the well-publicised health 
issues which can arise from prolonged exposure.  Ive thought extremely carefully about this.
While I understand their concerns, Mr and Mrs P havent suggested they or their family have 
suffered any ill-health as a result of the tiles being exposed in the kitchen.  Thats consistent 
with information on the NHS website, which suggests that exposure over many years would 
be necessary to have an impact on health.  So I dont think its reasonable to increase the 
amount of compensation AXA should pay because of this.  
We decide how much compensation a business should pay on a case by case basis.  And 
we publish guidance on the sorts of factors we take into account on our website.  Our 
investigator said total compensation of £1,000 (made up of the £500 excess waiver and a 
£500 payment) was fair.
Ive thought about this.  The guidance indicates a payment of this amount may be made:
where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and 
worry.There may have been serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with 
the impact felt over many months, sometimes over a year.
I think the descriptions Mr and Mrs P have given us about the impact on their lives are 
consistent with this guidance, both in terms of the level of disruption they suffered and for 
how long.  So I agree with our investigators view that AXA should pay them an additional 
£500, to bring the total compensation theyve received up to £1,000. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK Plc and directing AXA to pay Mr and Mrs P £500, in addition to waiving their 
£500 policy excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman