DRN-2063244
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with delays in receiving copies of statements she asked HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to provide her with.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Its clear that Mrs M had trouble receiving the statements she requested. Mrs M 
requested them on several occasions, but it wasnt until she came to this service that 
the statements were received.
On two occasions HSBC sent statements to Mrs M but unfortunately they werent 
received. I cant say why they werent received, but Ive seen persuasive evidence 
from HSBC that they were sent. So Im happy that HSBC actioned Mrs Ms request 
on these occasions.
On two other occasions the statements were sent to a branch instead of being 
posted to Mrs M. This was understandably very frustrating for Mrs M and HSBC have 
apologised for the errors.
HSBC have apologised for what happened and paid £150 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Im glad to see that Mrs M now has the statements she requires.
When coming to us Mrs M said she incurred legal costs due to the delays. Our investigator 
said they would consider these costs if proof was provided. However no proof of these were 
provided, so this isnt something Im considering further.
I can appreciate Mrs Ms frustrations with the delays as it did take longer than necessary for 
her to receive the statements. Having looked at everything that happened Im satisfied £150 
is a fair and reasonable payment so I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman