DRN-2443670
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) provided when 
representing him in a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In early 2017, Mr T instructed TCG to represent him in a claim for mis-sold PPI against a 
lender. TCG sent data subject access requests (DSARs) to the lender to find out if Mr T had 
PPI. In October 2017, the lender responded to the DSAR with maybe and policy search 
inconclusive. 
Following this, TCG sent Mr T further documentation to complete and return. Mr T sent back 
all the information he was asked for, including proof of his identification. In late December 
2017, the lender told TCG it couldnt find PPI policies in Mr Ts name. TCG closed Mr Ts 
claim on its system but didnt inform him of this.
In February 2018, Mr T phoned TCG and was told the claim had been closed. Mr T asked for 
some further information about this over the phone and by letter. TCG says it left Mr T a 
voicemail and sent an SMS in March. It says it responded to his letter in April 2018, but Mr T 
says he didnt receive this and TCG wasnt able to provide a copy.  
In May 2018, TCG sent Mr T an email which said it had successfully located PPI with some 
of his lenders and was currently processing his claim(s). As Mr T had only one live claim with 
TCG, he took this to mean that his PPI claim was successful as a result of the additional 
investigations hes asked TCG to make.  But following further correspondence from Mr T, 
TCG told him that his PPI claim had been closed as no PPI had been found. It apologised for 
the inconvenience caused and sent him £20 high street shopping vouchers.
In October 2018, Mr T wrote to TCG detailing his concerns with its service. But TCG didnt 
respond until February 2019, after a further letter from Mr T. It apologised for poor service 
and enclosed a cheque for £100 to compensate Mr T for this. But Mr T didnt bank the 
cheque.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. TCG increased its offer 
of compensation to £200, but Mr T didnt think this was sufficient. Our investigator 
acknowledged there were some issues with how TCG had communicated with Mr T, but she 
didnt think it could have done anything to change the outcome of his PPI claim. She felt the 
compensation it had offered Mr T was fair and reasonable. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. He felt TCG had acted negligently and should 
have investigated the anomaly of the lender saying he didnt have PPI and then saying he 
may have PPI. He didnt think the £200 TCG had offered him was enough compensation for 
loss of expectation, his time and the emotional impact the situation has had on him.
As Mr T has disagreed with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive considered all of his points even if I havent referred to each 
of them individually. Im aware that Mr T has brought a complaint against the lender to the 
financial ombudsman service. To be clear, I will only be considering the actions of TCG in 
my decision.
Mr T feels that hes been badly let down by TCG. He thinks it should have done more to 
investigate his claim against the lender and hes lost out on compensation for mis-sold PPI 
as a result. 
I dont doubt Mr Ts strength of feeling about this, but Im not persuaded that hes lost out 
financially because of anything TCG did or didnt do. 
I can see that the lender responded to TCGs DSAR with a maybe to PPI in October 2017. 
Mr T has described this as anomaly because the lender previously said there wasnt PPI. He 
feels TCG should have done more to challenge this. But I can see the lender wrote to TCG 
in December 2017 saying it had provided Mr Ts details to the insurers of any potential PPI 
policies. Both insurers had confirmed that, following a search, they were unable to find a 
policy in Mr Ts name including any relating to the two accounts that had been provided. 
TCGs terms and conditions say TCG may at its sole discretion decide not to proceed with a 
Claim and cancel this Claim at any time, but TCG must act reasonably in taking such a 
decision and You will owe TCG nothing. 
Mr T had previously brought a PPI complaint against the lender to the financial ombudsman 
service and had received an outcome in 2014. In this, the ombudsman service said that 
without information to show a PPI policy had been sold, they wouldnt be able to take his 
complaint any further. From what Ive been told, Mr T hasnt been able to provide evidence 
that he was sold a PPI policy. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for TCG to have decided 
not to proceed with Mr Ts claim after the lender told it no PPI had been found in the 
insurers searches. 
I do think TCGs communication should have been better that it was. The final response 
letter from the lender (dated December 2017) was addressed to TCG. So, I think TCG 
should have made Mr T aware of this and also let him know that it was closing his claim on 
its system. 
It also must have been very frustrating for Mr T to have to chase TCG for answers to 
correspondence he sent it following his conversation with it in February 2018. It was 
particularly upsetting and disappointing for Mr T to learn that the email TCG sent him in May 
2018, saying it had located PPI was a mistake. 
Mr T has also raised concerns about how long it took for the lender to provide TCG with a 
response to its DSAR. While I cant comment on the actions of the lender, TCG might have 
been able to get an answer for him a bit sooner if it had chased for a response. I also 
understand Mr T is unhappy that TCG couldnt provide copies of certain documents hed 
asked for. I acknowledge the customer service TCG provided wasnt as good as it should have been. I 
also appreciate that Mr T has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint. Im aware that 
hes been dealing with some significant health issues as well as a bereavement and has 
found this situation distressing. But as Ive said, I dont think TCG is responsible for Mr T 
experiencing any financial loss. And I feel the £200 TCG has offered him is sufficient 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced from poor customer service.
My final decision
The Claims Guys Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So, my decision is that The Claims Guys Limited should pay Mr T £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman