DRN-3835776
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss B opened a credit card account with Tesco in May 2017. Her initial credit limit was 
£1500.
Miss B says that Tesco shouldnt have allowed her to open an account and that it was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks carried out by Tesco 
were reasonable and proportionate and that the decision to lend was fair.
Miss B disagreed do the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending, including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our 
website and Ive had regard to this in considering Miss Bs complaint.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Miss B 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, including how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss Bs circumstances including her income and expenditure.
In this case, Tesco says it used the information it knew about Miss B from her application. It 
says it also took information from her credit file into account before it decided to proceed.
I need to decide whether the checks carried out by Tesco were reasonable and 
proportionate and whether the lending decision was fair.
Miss B told Tesco that she was self employed with an annual income of £22,000. She also 
stated that she was a homeowner. Tesco carried out a credit check and found no adverse 
information. It took into account Miss Bs existing credit commitments and used ONS data to 
estimate her living expenses. Tesco estimated that Miss B had disposable income of around 
£523 per month.
Taking all the information Ive seen into account, I think the checks carried out by Tesco 
were reasonable and proportionate. Theres nothing in the information Ive seen which 
wouldve necessitated further or more detailed checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive reviewed the information 
obtained by Tesco and Ive taken into account what Miss B has said.
Miss Bs bank statements show that she had disposable income of around £223 every 
month, rather than the figure estimated by Tesco. However, I dont think this of itself means 
that the  credit wasnt affordable for Miss B. The credit checks caried out by Tesco dont 
show any adverse information or evidence that Miss B was in financial difficulties at the time 
she applied for the card. There are no CCJs, defaults or missed payments on her credit file. 
I can see that Miss B had unsecured borrowing of around £4500 at the time she applied for 
the credit, but I dont think this is significant in relation to her income.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss B had sufficient disposable income to afford 
repayment of the credit after all her other financial commitments were met. Theres nothing 
in the information Ive seen to indicate that Miss B couldnt sustainably maintain repayments, 
or that she was experiencing financial difficulties.
Ive gone on to consider whether Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonable in some other way. 
Miss B has said that she relied on her overdraft facility to pay her bills for a number of years. 
Shes also explained that she hasnt worked for three years and that her financial situation 
has impacted on her mental health.
Im sorry to hear about the situation that Miss B finds herself in. However, I dont think these 
financial and personal problems could fairly have been identified by Tesco when Miss B 
applied for the credit card. In all the circumstances I dont think the lending was 
irresponsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman