DRN-3202429
The complaint
Mrs H, Mr H and Mrs Ms complaint against ReAssure Life Limited (ReAssure) is about the 
cost of a whole of life assurance plan.
What happened
Mrs H, Mr H and Mrs M are the trustees of the policy that is the subject of this complaint. 
For ease of reference, I will refer to them as the complainants. ReAssure are the business 
responsible for the policy and for responding to this complaint.  
Mrs H and her husband took out a joint unit-linked whole of life assurance plan in 2006. 
At the time, both Mrs H and her husband were in their 60s. Mrs Hs husband sadly died 
in 2014.
The plan was set up on a standard basis with a sum assured of £200,000 and monthly 
premium of £324.41. The premium and sum assured were guaranteed for the first ten years, 
after which the plan was reviewable annually. 
Under the terms of the plan, policyholders could opt to increase their premiums and sum 
assured by 10% each year. Mrs H and her husband agreed to the increase in seven of the 
first ten years the policy was in place. The plan passed the ten year review in 2016 and the 
next couple of annual reviews.  
As a result of the 10% increases that Mrs H and her husband had agreed to, by 2019 the 
premium was £632.23, and the sum assured £389,740. At the time of the 2019 annual 
review, ReAssure M told Mrs H that the premium was projected to maintain the same cover 
for the next ten years. Mrs H asked what premium she would have to pay to maintain cover 
for the whole of her life and ReAssure told her it would need to increase to £1,653.40.
The complainants have raised the following points:
ReAssure havent explained why such a large increase would be needed to maintain 
cover for the whole of life. When the policy started it was projected that the premium 
would sustain the life cover for 46 years based on the cost of life cover at that time 
and investment growth of 6% a year. ReAssure have provided no information to 
show whether 6% growth was achieved, so its difficult to understand the increase in 
premium. The cover would no longer be viable for Mrs H at the premium quoted.
The documents provided by ReAssure in 2006 were confusing and, if theyd been 
clearer, Mrs H and her husband might have chosen to take a policy with another 
provider. 
There are other reasons why the cost of cover should not need to increase so 
sharply. Life insurance rates have gone down since the policy was taken out. 
Mrs Hs husband died in 2014, so there is now only one life to insure. And the costs 
of administering policies should have reduced since the policy was taken out. 
Mrs H obtained a quote for a guaranteed premium policy with ReAssure, which was 
significantly cheaper than the projected premium for whole-of-life cover on her 
existing policy. She is being treated unfairly in comparison to a new customer. 
ReAssures position, in summary, is
This is a reviewable plan and the reviews have been carried out correctly in line with 
the terms and conditions. Mrs Hs current premium is expected to be sufficient until 
2029. 
Due to the optional 10% increases, the cover is now nearly double its original level, 
so the original projections are no longer valid. 
The cost of cover increases with age so it is very common for premiums to increase 
over time and at older ages the increases can be quite significant. 
The main factor in setting premiums is underlying mortality rates. ReAssure 
conducted a full mortality review in 2018 and adjusted their rates. Mrs Hs premiums 
are based on current mortality rates and are fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The complainants disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in November 2021.
I said I wouldnt be considering the sale of the plan back in 2006 as ReAssure werent 
responsible for the advice given to Mrs H and her husband at that time. I would be looking at 
how ReAssure had managed Mrs Hs plan, including the conduct of the reviews. And I would 
be deciding whether at this point in the life cycle of the policy I think ReAssure have treated 
Mrs H fairly. 
The complainants said Mrs H was aware her plan was a reviewable whole of life policy and 
accepted that ReAssure had the right to increase the policy premiums. I could see from their 
submissions that they had a broad understanding of how the policy was intended to work. 
But I started by summarising the key features of such a plan. 
A reviewable whole-of-life insurance policy is designed to pay out on death whenever it 
occurs. At the start of the plan, the cover and monthly premium are based on assumptions 
about a number of factors, including the future cost of life cover, mortality rates and the 
performance of investments. That means the illustrations or projections given at the start can 
only give an indication of what future premiums are likely to be. 
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost
of cover in that month and the remainder is invested. The cost of the cover is not fixed and 
increases with age. Thats because the risk of making a claim becomes higher as the 
insured person gets older. The hope is that the investment element will grow enough to fund 
the shortfall when the plan reaches the point where the cost of cover becomes greater than 
the premium being paid.
When Mrs H and her husband took out their plan in 2006, the key features document said: Based on the current cost of life cover and investment growth of 6% a year which 
includes the effect of the annual management charge, but excludes any underlying 
fund management charges, the life cover is projected to last for 46 years.
The plan was designed to be reviewed after 10 years and then annually after that. 
The purpose of the reviews is to check how the plan is performing against the original 
assumptions. The factors a business takes into account when they conduct a review are at 
their discretion. But I could see that ReAssure had made assumptions, about the cost of 
cover, life expectancy and investment performance in the future. 
ReAssure said their reviews were originally designed to check if the plan would last for at 
least five more years. But more recently, in the light of recommendations in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 2016 report on Fair Treatment of Long-standing customers in the 
life insurance sector, their reviews had provided longer term estimates of the potential future 
premiums a customer may be required to pay. 
Mrs Hs plan passed the ten year review in 2016 and the annual reviews that followed. 
That meant the premium didnt need to increase at the time of the reviews to maintain the 
level of cover. But from 2018, ReAssure started to warn Mrs H that the current premium was 
unlikely to support the sum assured for as long as shed been expecting. 
2018 review
At the time of the 2018 review (sent to Mrs H in November 2017), ReAssure projected that 
with investment growth of 3.22%, Mrs Hs cover could be maintained at the same cost for 
14 years. Mrs H was given a range of options to choose from, including doing nothing, 
increasing the premium but keeping the same level of cover, and reducing the cover and 
keeping the premium unchanged.
In the more detailed notes sent to Mrs H, ReAssure projected what would happen to the 
premium at the end of the 14 years in 2032. They estimated that the premium would need to 
increase to over £3000 (a 375% increase from the current level). I noted that in 2032 Mrs H 
will be 90.
The notes said: If you need the cover to last for a long time, it is likely to be more 
cost-effective to make a change now which could support your cover for longer, rather than 
make the minimum change every five years.
By the time of the 2018 review, Mrs H had paid total premiums of £70,727.74 and her policy 
had a surrender value of £67,194.48. Mrs H took no action and so the premium and sum 
assured remained the same.
2019 review
In the 2019 review (sent to Mrs H in November 2018), ReAssure told Mrs H they had 
reviewed their life cover rates to bring them up to date with the latest mortality rates. 
They estimated that if Mrs H maintained her cover at the same level, the total charge for one 
year would increase from £4659 to £5869. Over five years the charges were estimated to 
increase by over £10,000. 
 
ReAssures letter followed a similar format to the previous year. They projected that with 
investment growth of 4.1% the current premium would only maintain the same level of cover 
for the next ten years. Mrs H was again given a range of options to choose from.
 In the more detailed notes, ReAssure estimated that if Mrs H did nothing her premium would 
need to increase to over £3100 (a 400% increase) from 2029. At that point, Mrs H will be 87.
By the time of the 2019 review, Mrs H had paid total premiums of £78,314.50 and the plan 
had a surrender value of £70,922.84. 
Having seen the 2019 review, Mrs Hs representative asked ReAssure what premium would 
be needed from that point to maintain cover for the whole of life. ReAssure projected the 
premium would need to increase from £632.23 to £1,653.40 (a 162% increase). They told 
Mrs H that it would be more cost effective to increase the premium earlier rather than wait for 
the policy to fail a review, which was projected to happen in 2029.
Mrs H decided not to make any changes to the premium or level of cover, but instead 
complained to ReAssure that the policy was no longer viable for her.
Have ReAssure managed the reviews as they should have?
I looked first at whether ReAssure had managed the reviews of Mrs Hs plan in the way they 
should have. The reviews had been carried out after 10 years and then annually as set out in 
the terms of the policy. As previously explained, the reviews are a standard part of the 
operation of a plan like Mrs Hs and are designed to check how a plan is performing against 
the original assumptions. 
I said that in carrying out the reviews, ReAssure had taken account of the latest information 
on the cost of life cover for Mrs H, life expectancy data and the performance of the 
investments Mrs H was invested in. For example, in 2019 ReAssure reviewed their life cover 
rates in line with the latest mortality rates and this resulted in an increase in the cost of 
Mrs Hs life cover. 
Mrs Hs plan has passed each of the reviews held so far. But as a result of the reviews, 
ReAssure were projecting that the current premium would not support the sum assured for 
as long as Mrs H was expecting. Thats a common occurrence with reviewable policies as 
the assumptions made previously need to be adjusted. And from what Id seen, I didnt think 
ReAssure had done anything wrong in the way theyd conducted the reviews. 
Mrs H questioned why ReAssure used investment growth of 6% for their projections when 
the plan started and whether that growth had been achieved over the life of the plan. 
ReAssure had said that basing their projections on growth of 6% was in line with the industry 
standard at the time. The key features document given to Mrs H and her husband explained 
what the projections were based on and that the 6% growth didnt account for fund 
management charges. I noted that ReAssure had now changed the way they make 
projections to look at the performance of specific funds and take account of fund charges. 
ReAssure provided some information on the performance of the funds Mrs H was invested 
in. But I said it was important to stress that investment performance was just one factor 
affecting the outcome of the reviews of Mrs Hs plan. Increases in the cost of life cover and 
changes in mortality rates had also affected the projections that ReAssure made. 
Mrs Hs policy was reviewable and never intended to guarantee the same level of cover for 
the whole of life.   
Have ReAssure treated Mrs H fairly and communicated clearly?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out high level Principles for Businesses in its 
handbook. Among other things, these require a firm to:pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; and
pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
In considering whether ReAssure had treated Mrs H fairly, I said I was also taking account of 
the report by the FCA in 2016 on Fair Treatment of Long-standing customers in the life 
insurance sector. That report recommended that:
The firm checks, through periodic reviews, that closed-book products remain fit for 
purpose and continue to meet the general needs of the target audience for whom 
they were designed. 
The firms closed-book customers receive clear and timely communications about 
policy features at regular intervals and at key points in the product life cycle that 
enable them to make informed decisions.
I said I was considering whether at this point in the life cycle of the policy I thought ReAssure 
had treated Mrs H fairly and communicated with her clearly. I said Id looked carefully at the 
information provided to Mrs H at the time of the reviews that ReAssure had conducted to 
date. 
I noted that in response to the FCA report, ReAssure started providing longer term estimates 
of the premiums a customer was likely to have to pay. So, ReAssure hadnt just told Mrs H 
that the plan had passed the reviews. They had also explained how their projections for the 
plan had changed and what that was likely to mean in the future. 
The FCA report was published at the end of 2016 and ReAssure started to provide these 
estimates to Mrs H in the 2018 review, which was sent to her in November 2017. In the 2019 
review, ReAssure said that, although Mrs Hs plan had passed its review, the premiums 
were projected to increase very significantly from 2029. ReAssure also said it might be more 
cost effective for Mrs H to start paying higher premiums now. 
I thought the reviews sent to Mrs H had provided her with clear information about her policy 
and the projections for the future. And I thought ReAssure had communicated to Mrs H in a 
timely way, giving her notice that the policy was projected to fail its review in about 10 years 
time. Overall, I was satisfied that ReAssure had given Mrs H the information she needed to 
make informed decisions about her policy while it still had a significant value and she still 
had options available to her.
I noted that the current projections were very different to those made at the time Mrs H took 
out the plan. That didnt mean ReAssure had done anything wrong in how they had 
managed the plan. Nor did it mean the plan was no longer fit for purpose as ReAssure 
expected it to continue providing cover at the sum assured until 2029. And the plan was 
never intended to guarantee the same level of cover for the whole of life.   
But I said I appreciated this was not a position Mrs H expected to be in, and I could 
understand why she was concerned about whether the plan would remain viable for her. 
On current projections, she would be faced with a 400% increase in premiums in 2029 when 
she will be 87. Or she could decide to increase her premium by 162% now with a view to 
maintaining cover for the whole of life. They are very large increases and anyone in Mrs Hs 
position would want to consider carefully whether they are affordable and what to do next. 
I noted that Mrs Hs adviser had obtained a quote for a new guaranteed premium policy and 
thought it was evidence that ReAssure were treating her unfairly. But I said the quote was for a different type of policy being taken under different circumstances to Mrs Hs current plan, 
so was not directly comparable. 
I didnt think the quote was evidence that ReAssure were treating Mrs H unfairly. But I said 
the option of surrendering her current plan and taking out a new policy was something Mrs H 
might want to consider, taking account of the surrender value of her existing plan.
I said that ReAssure had presented Mrs H with a number of options. She could continue 
paying the current premium, increase the premium or reduce the sum assured. She could 
also consider surrendering her plan and taking out a new policy. ReAssure had said that the 
best way for Mrs H to review whether the plan continued to meet her needs was with the 
help of a financial adviser. I agreed with that and encouraged Mrs H to obtain independent 
financial advice on her next steps. 
But, based on the information available and in the particular circumstances of this case, my 
provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I didnt think ReAssure 
should do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
The complainants disagreed with my provisional findings and said, in summary, that:
The policy documents said:
The...plan is a regular premium unit-linked whole of life insurance, designed so that 
cover can continue throughout life.
Based on the current level of life cover and investment growth of 6% per yearthe 
life cover is projected to last for 46 years.
The complainants said the plan hasnt lasted 20 years, let alone 46.
The large increase in premiums that ReAssure are projecting is unfair. I should have 
obtained more information from ReAssure about the performance of Mrs Hs 
investments in order to come to an informed decision. I should have asked ReAssure 
to prove that growth of 6% hasnt been achieved and I have simply accepted 
ReAssures claim that because the cover on the policy was increased its not 
possible to calculate the rate of investment growth. 
The policy terms allow for an increase in premiums due to increases in mortality 
costs, but I have not assessed whether the increase was fair and reasonable.
ReAssure should continue to provide information on Mrs Hs policy based on an 
annual growth rate of 6%.  
The new policy that Mrs Hs adviser has obtained a quote for would offer better terms 
at a cheaper premium. The quote is evidence that ReAssure are treating new 
customers more favourably than existing policy holders.
ReAssure did not respond to my provisional decision, but they have provided further 
information that I requested so that I could come to my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, I asked ReAssure for further information about Mrs Hs 
policy and shared this with the complainants. I am satisfied that I now have enough 
information fairly to decide this case. In doing so, I would like to remind the complainants 
that our service is an informal dispute resolution scheme concerned with the facts of the 
individual complaint. We do not have a regulatory role in relation to ReAssure or other 
businesses. 
Ive looked at the quotes from the policy documents that the complainants have referred to. 
Taking account of the two quotes and the policy documents overall, I think it was clear that 
the policy was reviewable and that 46 years was a projection for the life cover. As I noted in 
my provisional decision, Mrs H has said she was aware it was a reviewable policy and 
accepts that ReAssure have the right to increase the policy premiums. 
I said in my provisional decision that ReAssure had provided some information on the 
performance of the funds Mrs H invested in. They had also said previously that weaker 
investment performance in the early years of a policy could have a marked effect on future 
projections. At that time, life cover costs are lower, but fewer investment units can be bought 
because of the weaker investment growth. 
I said in my provisional decision that investment performance was just one factor affecting 
the outcome of the reviews of Mrs Hs plan. ReAssure have also taken account of increases 
in the cost of life cover and changes in mortality rates in making their projections. 
The factors a business takes into account when they conduct a policy review and make 
projections are at their discretion. The test I need to apply is whether ReAssure have treated 
Mrs H fairly and given her clear information so that she can make an informed decision.
In the information they have provided to our service, ReAssure have said there are three 
factors that explain why what they refer to as the sustain term (i.e., the length of time the 
cover is predicted to last on the basis of the premium being paid) is now significantly shorter 
than that shown in the original illustration. In summary, these are: 
The original illustration assumed the cover would remain the same throughout, but it 
was being increased. The premiums were only being increased at the same rate, and 
the mortality rate was increasing at a greater rate. So, the increase in cover was 
compounding the effect of the increase in mortality cost. And in real terms the 
amount going into the investment pot is falling year on year, impacting the sustain 
term. 
The future growth assumption now is lower than it was at the time of the initial 
illustration, and significantly so - 6% vs 4.15% (in 2019), which is a reduction of about 
31%. That would reduce the projected sustain term even if the original 6% has been 
achieved to date. 
The cost of cover increased in 2018 following ReAssures review of mortality rates. 
It appears the increase in mortality rates was beyond that anticipated at the time of 
the original illustration. 
ReAssure have estimated the impact each of these factors has had in terms of the number 
of years of reduction which might be attributable to each. Based on the information ReAssure have provided, I think the cumulative impact of these three factors is a plausible 
explanation for the significantly lower than initially illustrated sustain term. How ReAssure 
choose to assess and price risk is ultimately something for their commercial judgment, which 
is not something it would be appropriate for me to interfere with. But from what Ive seen, 
I think ReAssure have had a basis for the mortality rates they have used and taken steps to 
ensure that any changes have been applied fairly.   
In their review letters ReAssure have given the value of Mrs Hs investment fund, which is in 
part a reflection of how her investments have performed and explained the review process. 
They have set out clearly their projections for the future and what they mean for Mrs H, 
while explaining that they cannot be guaranteed. They have also set out the options 
available to Mrs H and the costs associated with those options. And they have made 
available information to explain why, in making their projections, they have assumed that 
Mrs Hs investments will achieve a certain annual growth rate. 
Im satisfied that ReAssure have exercised their discretion in a reasonable way in conducting 
the reviews of Mrs Hs policy. And I think ReAssure have clearly communicated the review 
outcomes to Mrs H, which is a key factor in determining this complaint. ReAssure have 
clearly explained the current position and the likely future one and have set out all the 
available options (and their associated costs) when doing so. And they have done this while 
the policy still has a significant surrender value (i.e., at least broadly equivalent to the 
premiums paid). So, I think the position has been made clear to Mrs H and she has had the 
opportunity to take action. 
The complainants have referred again to the quote for a new policy obtained by Mrs Hs 
adviser. In my provisional decision I said that the quote was not directly comparable to 
Mrs Hs current plan. The two plans are different products with different terms and 
conditions. Mrs Hs existing plan has been in place for more than 15 years and the projected 
premiums reflect the review process Ive discussed above and could change. The quote is 
for a new guaranteed whole of life policy with a lower sum assured (reflecting the fact that 
Mrs H would have obtained the surrender value of her existing policy before taking out a 
new policy).   
I still dont think the policies are directly comparable and I dont think the quote is evidence 
that ReAssure are treating Mrs H unfairly. As I said in my provisional decision, the option of 
surrendering her current plan and taking out a new policy is something Mrs H might want to 
consider, taking account of the surrender value of her existing plan. And I would encourage 
Mrs H to obtain independent financial advice on all the options available to her.
Based on all the information available to me, and in the particular circumstances of this case, 
my decision remains unchanged. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I wont be 
asking ReAssure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs H, Mr H and 
Mrs Ms complaint against ReAssure Life Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, Mr H and 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman