DRN-2302559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about errors made by Barclays Bank UK PLC after they switched 
their account.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs M switched their Barclays account. Some time later they 
discovered that a £100,000 payment in November 2018 showed up twice in their online 
banking records, but only one payment had been received. This payment was for an 
investment - Ill refer to this as Investment E.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Barclays in May 2019. Thinking this was a duplicated 
transaction, they expected Barclays to refund £100,000 back to their account. But after 
investigating Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Barclays admitted theyd made an error when they 
switched the account - and this affected what Mr and Mrs M saw in their online banking. 
Barclays provided statements listing transactions Mr and Mrs M had made that werent 
shown online. The statements showed their account balance was a lot less than shown 
online. Barclays offered them £500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Barclays offer. They said they relied on online banking to 
record payments theyd made. Their online banking records showed that theyd paid a total 
of £600,000 to Investment E, which was the full amount owed. In January and February 
2019 Mr and Mrs Ms online banking was still showing a significant account balance, so they 
made two extra investments totalling £71,000.
Mr and Mrs M said it wasnt until May 2019 that they discovered one of the £100,000 
payments to Investment E hadnt been received. They had to pay another £100,000, leaving 
them short of money in their current account.
In August 2019, when Barclays responded to their complaint, Mr and Mrs M realised they 
werent going to receive the £100,000 refund theyd expected. They had to cash in an ISA, 
and they didnt have enough money in their account to invest in their pension as planned.
Our investigator looked in to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He didnt think Barclays should be 
held liable for any losses on the two extra investments theyd made. But he thought it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to assume the information shown on their online banking was 
correct  the fact that this was wrong made any subsequent financial decision fundamentally 
flawed. The investigator recommended Barclays pay an additional £500 compensation on 
top of the £500 already offered. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this, so the case has come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Barclays must follow. These principles include a requirement for Barclays to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. In this case Barclays have admitted that they 
made an error when they switched Mr and Mrs Ms account. Fortunately, in this case theres 
no suggestion that money went missing from the account. But Barclays admit their error 
caused Mr and Mrs Ms online banking to show incorrect information between June and 
November 2018. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly that Barclays have not been open and 
transparent in their handling of the errors on the account. And I can appreciate their 
frustration at not knowing how or why the duplicate transaction appeared in November 2018. 
But the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to punish a business for getting something 
wrong  thats not something we can do. Our role is to look at the impact that error had  
and whether Barclays should do more to put things right.
My first consideration is whether Barclays error caused Mr and Mrs M to suffer financial 
loss, and if so, whether its fair and reasonable to direct Barclays to compensate them for 
that. Ive looked in detail at the information Mr and Mrs M have provided about their 
investments, as well as the information they had available to them at the time.
Mr and Mrs M also received statements from Barclays - these recorded their account 
transactions and balance accurately. But they dont think they should have to check the 
information shown online against their bank statements - they say they use online banking to 
track their expenditure. Its wise for customers to check their bank account regularly for signs 
of unusual activity, but I agree that its reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to expect the online 
record to be accurate.
Barclays have provided a copy of their online terms and conditions, which seek to limit or 
exclude liability. Barclays state:
Although we have taken all reasonable care to ensure that the information provided on 
this site is accurate, we give no warranties of any kind, express or implied, with regard 
to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of any such information.
We will accept no liability in any event including (without limitation) negligence for any 
damages or loss of any kind, including (without limitation) direct, indirect, incidental, 
special or consequential damages, expenses or losses arising out of, or in connection 
with your use or inability to use the site, or in connection with any error, omission, 
defect, computer virus or system failure, or loss of any profit, goodwill or reputation, 
even if expressly advised of the possibility of such loss or damages, arising out of or in 
connection with the access of, use of, performance of, browsing in or linking to other 
sites from this site.
I find the term about Barclays liability difficult to read  I think an average consumer might 
struggle to understand it. And even if it was clear, the information Mr and Mrs M saw online 
was incorrect due to Barclays error, so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for Barclays to apply these kinds of limitation or exclusion clauses in this case.
Im satisfied that, by providing access to their balance online, Barclays could reasonably 
expect Mr and Mrs M to make financial decisions based on that information. Im also 
satisfied that, when they decided to make two more investments in January and February 
2019, their online banking information was incorrect. However, on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that Barclays error has caused Mr and Mrs M financial loss. Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs M say that they wouldnt have made the two speculative investments at the 
beginning of 2019 if theyd known their true account balance. These were investments in 
new businesses - neither has yielded a profit so far. Because theyd paid £71,000 for these 
investments, Mr and Mrs M had to cash an ISA investment in May 2019 to release funds 
needed for Investment E. Theyve told us that they didnt have enough money to utilise Mr 
Ms full pension allowance, and that this was part of their retirement strategy. Mr and Mrs M 
say withdrawing their money from the two new investments wouldnt have been a 
reasonable course of action, because it would have resulted in those businesses being 
dissolved. 
I can appreciate Mr & Mrs Ms frustration at the loss of two long-term, tax efficient 
investments for their future. But Im not able to say that Mr and Mrs M have suffered a 
financial loss as a result of replacing their ISA and pension plan with two new investments. 
Financial markets can be unpredictable at best  even more so since COVID19. We have no 
information as to how the ISA and pension investments would have performed  and the 
new investments are quite speculative in nature and may yet yield a profit for Mr and Mrs M. 
Whilst I accept Barclays error placed Mr and Mrs M in a difficult situation, I cant fairly 
require the bank to compensate them for actual or potential loss in the absence of 
persuasive evidence of these.  
  
Putting things right
Although Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate for Barclays to compensate Mr and 
Mrs M for financial loss, it is clear to me that the banks error has caused a substantial 
amount of trouble and upset. I think the total £1,000 proposed is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation in this case.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs M 
the total amount of £1,000 in compensation for the trouble and upset theyve been caused.                                                          
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman