DRN-2422939
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) issued him six premium 
bond prize winning warrants, which although printed with his name on the payee line, had 
the name of another person printed in a black box at the bottom of them.
Mr H also complains that NS&Is handling of his concerns in respect of the above caused 
him both distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She came to the view that 
there had indeed been an error on the part of NS&I in issuing the initial warrants to Mr H that 
it had. And that its subsequent handling of Mr Hs concerns about the same had caused him 
a degree of distress and inconvenience. However, she concluded that having offered and 
paid Mr H £50, NS&I need do nothing further.
Mr H disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
I would also add that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Its not in dispute that the initial six warrants were issued with the name of another person 
printed in a black box at the bottom of them. Its also not in dispute that between 
12 March 2020 (when Mr H received the initial warrants) and just before 31 March 2020 
(when Mr H received replacement warrants) that he:
had to call NS&I on more than one occasion
received wrong and conflicting information
was sent information that he hadnt requested
was sent information that was incomplete 
But taking everything into account, including the fact that the initial warrants were valid and 
could have been presented for payment and that Mr H received replacement warrants in less 
than three weeks, Im satisfied that the payment of £50 by NS&I represents appropriate 
compensation.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add:
that NS&I has done nothing wrong in issuing warrants that are valid for three months
I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mr Hs name appearing in a black box 
at the bottom of somebody elses warrant or warrants  if indeed that is what 
happened  should have had no, or little impact on him.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments, having already paid Mr H £50, 
need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman