DRN-4147343
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
I will just refer to Advantage in this decision for simplicity, but this also includes its agents.
What happened
In summary, following an incident where another driver hit her car in the rear, Mrs C 
submitted a claim. She wanted Advantage to repair her car without her claim impacting her 
no claims bonus and without her paying the policy excess. The background to this complaint 
is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail again here. Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Firstly I can understand Mrs Cs frustration that shes suffering losses through no 
fault of her own. She had the distress of the accident, the inconvenience of repairs 
being made, she had to pay her policy excess and she now has a fault recorded 
against her. I can sympathise with Mrs Cs situation, but I dont uphold her complaint 
in full. Ill explain why this is.
Advantage has shown that Mrs Cs Essential policy didnt include the uninsured 
driver promise. This promise would mean that if a policyholder is hit by an uninsured 
driver, whos completely at fault for the accident, they wont have to pay an excess, 
and their no claims discount (NCD) wont be affected. I appreciate that Mrs C was 
unaware her policy didnt contain this promise. She felt that as she had 
comprehensive insurance this was the highest level of cover she could have. 
However policies contain different terms and conditions and Mrs Cs policy didnt 
contain the uninsured driver promise. This is apparent from her policy document. 
Accordingly there is no basis for me to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Advantage to treat her claim as one made under a policy that did have the 
promise. 
I can see that Mrs C doesnt feel she was in any way to blame for the accident  she 
was hit in the rear by a vehicle with a foreign number plate. But as Advantage hasnt 
yet been able to recover from the drivers insurer  the accident has been recorded 
recorded as fault. This is usual  it means that recovery wasnt possible and not 
necessarily that Mrs C was to blame. This being so I cant say that Advantage treated 
Mrs C unfairly by treating the accident as a fault one and requiring her to pay the 
policy excess.
The claim led to Mrs Cs premium being increased. As she had already renewed her 
policy this also came as a surprise to her. However it is now accepted that she has 
not been treated differently to how other policyholders would have been treated in the 
same position having notified a claim. As the increase in premium is no longer in 
dispute I wont comment further.
That said the service Mrs C received was less that she could have expected. Mrs C 
was asking for her claim not to impact her no claims bonus. She has said that she 
was told she wouldnt need to pay the excess and that her no claims bonus wouldnt 
be impacted. This was incorrect and I accept it led to disappointment when it became 
apparent her claim wasnt being treated in this way. 
Additionally Mrs C had to chase to see what was happening with the repair of her car 
 she wasnt given regular updates. Advantage admitted a failing here and awarded 
Mrs C £60 in compensation. I appreciate that Advantage was trying to gain 
information about the third party from the police, but this in itself is not a reason not to 
keep Mrs C informed. Looking at Mrs Cs claim journey as a whole I agree with our 
investigator that this sum didnt compensate her for the stress and inconvenience she 
encountered when making this claim. She wasnt updated or correctly informed. She 
needed to chase to find out what was happening. I find that at total figure of £250 is 
fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C 
a total of £250 in compensation. Advantage can deduct any amount already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman