DRN-1426184
 
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited wont cover the costs quoted by her 
preferred contractors to carry out repairs to her home. Ms H made a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
All references to the insurer Fairmead in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
A tree from Ms Hs back garden fell onto her property during high winds in February 2019. 
Damage was caused to both the outside and inside of her home. So she made a claim to her 
insurer. Fairmead.
Fairmead instructed a loss adjustor who confirmed the claim would be covered for both the 
internal and external damage.
Ms H told the loss adjuster that she wanted to use her own contractors rather than 
Fairmeads contractors. The loss adjuster explained that this meant Fairmead would deal 
with her claim as a cash settlement.
From February to August 2019 Ms H provided estimates for repairs to each part of her home 
to be carried out and these were met by Fairmead. 
However, when Ms H provided estimates for repairs to her bedroom and ensuite, Fairmeads 
loss adjuster said they were for much more than it would cost using its own contractor. It 
offered for Ms H to use its own contractors to carry out the work, but Ms H refused. So the 
cash sum it offered Ms H was lower than the estimates she provided. 
Ms H complained to Fairmead. She said the situation was making a current serious health 
condition even worse. 
Fairmead said it understood Ms Hs reasons as to why she wanted to use her preferred 
contractors. But it said it had been fair and acted in line with the policy.
Ms H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she wanted to use 
her preferred contractors as she knew and trusted them. She said she obtained other quotes 
which were similar. So she doesnt believe Fairmeads loss adjuster has properly considered 
the repair works she wishes to claim for.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Ms Hs complaint. She thought Fairmead had 
acted reasonably by offering the services of its contractor as an alternative to carry out the 
remaining repairs. 
Ms H didnt agree. So the investigator said shed pass her complaint to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. In the meantime Ms H said shed like a contractor of Fairmeads to visit her home and go through the repair works it would carry out. Our investigator asked Fairmead if 
this was possible. 
Fairmead said it spoke with Ms H. But she didnt agree to the contractor carrying out the 
works. So Fairmead said it wouldnt agree to send a contractor out for any other reason as 
this would be an additional cost. It said it offered Ms H many times the option to have the 
works carried out by its contractors, but she has refused. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Ms Hs reasons for wanting to use contractors that she knows and trusts. 
But I have to consider whether the insurer Fairmead has acted unreasonably. I dont think it 
has. 
Ms Hs policy with Fairmead says the following:
If you suffer loss or damage to any of your buildings, at our option we will:
pay the cost of repairing or rebuilding;
repair or rebuild; or
make a cash payment for the loss or damage.
 
If repair or rebuilding work is not carried out, we will pay an amount to cover the reduction in 
market value of your buildings resulting from the loss or damage. We will not pay more than 
the cost to us (after any discount available from our approved suppliers) of repairing or 
rebuilding the buildings."
This isnt an unusual term as Ive seen it in most  if not all insurance policies. I dont think 
its unreasonable for an insurer to limit the costs it will pay an external contractor to the 
amount it would pay using its contractors to meet the claim. But it doesnt prevent Ms H  or 
any other customer  from using their preferred contractor. 
As Fairmead offered Ms H the option to instead have the works carried out by its 
contractors, I cant say that its approach here was unreasonable. 
I understand Ms H wants Fairmead to meet the costs of her preferred contractors estimates. 
But I think the options Fairmead gave Ms H to meet her claim for repairs to her bedroom and 
ensuite are reasonable and in line with the policy. 
So this means Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman