DRN-2269438
The complaint
Ms O has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in my 
decision.
Background
Ms O bought the policy in September 1994 at the same time as applying for a Budgetcard by 
postal application.
The policy cost 64p per £100 of Ms Os outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of her balance 
until the outstanding balance at the start of the claim was paid off or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms O says the application form contained a box to select PPI and that it was pre-ticked. But 
she also says she wasnt aware she had taken PPI. 
I have seen a copy of Ms Os application form and the box Ms O refers to. In this section, 
there is some basic information about the PPI and the customer is asked to tick the box if 
they want to take it out. While I can see theres a tick in the box for the PPI, it looks as 
though the tick was added to the box at the same time Ms O completed her details on the 
application form and I can see Ms O signed the agreement confirming she accepted all of 
the answers and selections shed made on the form. So, I think this indicates that she 
wanted the PPI added to her account at the time.
Ive also noted that the application form gave Ms O the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted to protect the card from loss of theft. Ms O didnt select this product, so I think 
she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. Overall, I think its 
more likely than not Ms O would have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think she 
would have ticked the box or signed the agreement if she didnt want to take it out. The sale 
took place some 24 years ago, so its quite possible Ms O may not remember this now.
Ms O and Allianz agree that PPI wasnt recommended to her, which means Allianz didnt 
have to check the policy was right for her. But it did need to give her enough information 
about the PPI, so she could decide herself whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ms O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about 
her circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think 
better information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
the policy wasnt affordable for Ms O at the time of sale.
Ive considered that Ms O says she was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six 
months half sick pay from her employer and that she would have received redundancy pay if 
she lost her job. But as the policy would have paid out on top of her sick pay entitlement and 
potentially for longer, I think Ms O still could have found the cover useful if she fell on hard 
times. So, I dont think better information would have changed her decision to take the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman