DRN-1380192
The complaint
Mr W complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Limited refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr W acquired a second-hand car costing £9,995 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. It was some three years old and had done 21,647 miles.
Within six months of acquiring the vehicle it broke down. A diagnosis was made by the 
emergency mechanic that there was an issue with cylinder number one. The car was taken 
back to the dealer. It said it couldnt find a fault, but Mr W insisted there was one and the 
dealer says it referred the car to a main dealer for it to examine.
It was unable to identify a fault, but after numerous tests, they found injector 4 could 
potentially be a problem and replaced this as a precaution. FCA says the car was still driving 
as per the manufacturer's specification throughout all the testing. It took about several 
months for this work to be completed and the dealer provided a courtesy car during this 
period. 
The vehicle was repaired and ready for collection, but Mr W didnt want it back and around 
this time he first contacted FCA. The dealer collected the courtesy car and dropped off the 
repaired car. FCA didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint but offered to forgo one months payment 
as compensation for any inconvenience Mr W may have suffered. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld in part. He said that the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) says that a vehicle must be of satisfactory quality. If a fault is found after 30 
days and is proven to have been present or developing at the point of supply, a business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair. If the repair fails, a consumer is allowed the right to reject 
the vehicle.
He said the CRA goes on to explain the conditions of a repair. It says the repair must be 
completed within a "reasonable time" and without "significant inconvenience". He said there 
was little evidence of the initial diagnosis, and the subsequent repairs. However, he thought 
the dealer was entitled to one attempt at a repair if that failed then it was possible that 
rejection would be the correct answer.
He noted the length of time the repair had taken, driven in part by Mr Ws insistence that 
there was a fault. While this was lengthy he was aware Mr W had been given a courtesy car 
so he wasnt significantly disadvantaged. He appreciated the replacement car wasnt as big 
as the one Mr W had acquired and he thought that FCA should forgo 25% of four monthly 
payments to recognise the loss of usage and pay him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience.
FCA agreed but asked that the sum due be used to offset some of Mr Ws arrears. Mr W 
didnt agree and wondered if the dealer had forgotten about cylinder 1 when repairing cylinder 4.  Mr W said he had asked for a lease agreement and not personal finance. He 
also queried the mileage limit of 6,000 and the extras he had been encouraged to buy. He 
also said he had asked for a copy of the dealers diagnostic report which he hadnt received.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCA is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is agreed the car broke down and I am told that the roadside engineer diagnosed a fault 
with cylinder 1. This could not be replicated by the dealer or a separate main dealer to which 
the car was referred. I appreciate there can be intermittent faults with a car which can be 
hard to find, but understand the car drove as expected throughout the time it was in the 
garage.
The dealer says that because there was a suggestion of a fault with cylinder 4 it repaired 
that as a precaution. I have seen no evidence to show this repair hasnt been effective and 
so I must presume the car is now working properly. I gather Mr W acquired a new car in the 
autumn of 2019, which is more suited to his needs, but that doesnt mean that he can reject 
this one on the basis of the evidence he has supplied.
I cannot say that the fault was inherent at the point of sale, though it might have been and I 
cant say the repair was not effective. Therefore, there is no basis that would allow me to 
direct FCA to allow rejection. I dont consider the evidence supports rejection.
Mr W has raised some issues about the sale and the type of finance he took out. These 
complaints have not been raised with FCS first and so I have not considered them. If Mr W 
thinks he has grounds to complain about the sale he should contact FCA. This the correct 
process to follow and if necessary the matter can be referred to this service if no agreement 
can be reached.
Finally, I agree with the investigators recommendations, but I consider that FCA is entitled to 
offset the sum due against any arrears Mr W may have.Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCA Automotive Services UK 
Limited to:
refund 25% of four monthly payments to recognise the loss of usage and being 
provided a courtesy vehicle which wasn't similar in make and model; and
compensate Mr W with £200 for distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman