DRN-2137693
The complaint
Miss F complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) mis-sold her a travel 
insurance policy, when it knew she wasnt eligible to claim under it. 
All references to AIG include the appointed representatives who sold the policy on its behalf. 
 
What happened
Miss F was abroad and bought a cancellation travel insurance policy online, to cover a trip
back to the UK. The policy is both provided and sold by AIG.
Unfortunately, Miss F needed to extend her trip as the relative who she was visiting in the
UK was seriously ill. Miss F made a claim under her policy with AIG for the cost of moving
her return flight.
AIG said Miss Fs claim wasnt covered as her trip wasnt starting and ending in the UK. AIG
also said, even if Miss Fs trip was covered, the cancellation cover shed bought didnt cover
the circumstances of her claim. AIG refunded Miss F the premiums shed paid for the
insurance, as it said shed never have been entitled to make a claim under the policy.
Unhappy, Miss F brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt think AIG had done anything
wrong. Miss F didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
I made my provisional decision about Miss Fs complaint in August 2020. In it, I said:
Ive firstly considered whether I think the circumstances of Miss Fs claim are covered under
her policy.
AIG has said Miss Fs policy doesnt cover trips unless they start and end in the UK, but I
cant see that the policy terms and conditions specifically state this.
Our investigator concluded that Miss F was never eligible to claim under the policy because
she was resident abroad when she bought it. Miss F responded to our investigator to say
this was incorrect and she wasnt resident abroad  instead, she was abroad visiting her
partners family on a tourist visa.
Im satisfied, based on what Miss F has told us in response to our investigators view, that
she wasnt resident abroad at the time she bought the insurance under AIGs definition of
residency. So, I think she was eligible to claim under the policy.
However, the policy Miss F purchased doesnt cover the circumstances she found herself in,
where she needed to extend her trip to the UK. Miss Fs policy only covers the cancellation
or postponement of her trip. The trip, in line with what is covered under the cancellation
section of most travel insurance policies, was her trip to the UK on the dates set out on her
original itinerary.
The policy doesnt insure Miss Fs flights individually so, in order for a claim to be considered
under her cancellation policy, Miss Fs trip to the UK would need to have been cancelled or
postponed in its entirely. I think the wording of the policy is clear and I dont think its
reasonable to conclude that its open to the interpretation which Miss F has put forward.
Even if I were to accept Miss Fs interpretation of the policy wording, the policy excludes any
claims arising from pre-existing medical conditions of the policyholder or their relatives,
which the policyholder was aware of before the policy started. Miss F was aware of her
relatives illness at the time she bought the insurance. The policy also doesnt cover any
incident which the policyholder is aware of at the time of buying the insurance, which could
reasonably be expected to lead to a claim. Based on what Miss F has told us, I think she
knew at the time she bought the insurance that she might need to extend her trip to the UK.
This means I dont think Miss Fs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of her
policy, and I dont think AIG has been unfair or unreasonable in turning down her claim.
AIG sold this policy on a non-advised basis. This means AIG needed to provide Miss F with
clear information about the key features of the insurance, to enable her to make an informed
decision about whether to buy it.
When Miss F bought her insurance, she was presented with two options. The first was a
cancellation plan covering trip cancellation or postponement only, which is the cover Miss F
chose to purchase. The second was a more expensive policy which had additional benefits,
including trip delay and trip interruption.
Both options which were presented to Miss F clearly state what level of cover is provided
under each one and contain links to the relevant Insurance Product Information Document
and policy wordings. Miss Fs Insurance Product Information Document states that she is
only covered for cancellation and postponement of a trip, and that pre-existing medical
conditions are not covered.
Overall, Im satisfied AIG met its obligations when selling the policy and I dont think the
insurance was mis-sold.
AIG has refunded the policy premiums to Miss F, which is more than Id have expected it to
do in circumstances where she was in fact eligible to claim under the policy. So, I dont
intend to recommend that AIG should do anything more.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
AIG didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss F said she was disappointed by the 
outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or additional comments, I see no reason 
to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman