DRN-2695774
The complaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has increased the 
cost of his pet insurance policy significantly. He says Red Sands mis-sold the policy as it 
didnt explain to him when he bought the policy that this would happen.   
What happened
Mr B took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2013 to cover his pet dog and renewed it 
each year. The premium for 2019 was £257.12 but in 2020 it increased to £420.12. He was 
surprised the premium had increased by more than 60% in a year and complained. He was 
also unhappy that he now had to pay a contribution towards the cost of any claim. Mr B said 
Red Sands should have made it clear at the outset and not just at later renewals that as his 
pet gets older, the level of cover reduces and the cost increases. 
Red Sands said there are several factors that caused the increase and the premium was 
calculated correctly. But after we started looking into the complaint Red Sands said it 
accepted Mr B would have been upset by the increase and offered £200 compensation in 
respect of this. 
Our investigator said the premium had been calculated correctly and Mr B hadnt been 
treated unfairly compared to other customers. She also said its not uncommon for 
policyholders to have to make a co-payment towards vets fees when a pet reaches a 
certain age. But she said clear information should have been provided at the outset and the 
shock of the increased cost could have been avoided if it had been. However, she thought 
the compensation offered by Red Sands was fair.
Mr B disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says an insurer shouldnt 
be able to change the policy in this way. And he says if hed known at the outset that by the 
time his pet reaches eight years old he will effectively pay 50% of the bill, it would have 
made him consider whether it would be better to put the premiums in a bank account each 
month to cover any vets fees.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses are generally entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they 
provide. And the cost of insuring a pet will generally increase as the pet gets older. Its not 
my role to tell an insurer how much it should charge customers. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Red Sands treated Mr B differently to how they would have treated another 
policyholder in the same position. So I dont think Red Sands treated him unfairly when it 
comes to how much he was charged for the insurance. While I appreciate Mr B doesnt think 
the policy should be so expensive, its not for me to say Red Sands should charge him less.
Mr B has mentioned that he could obtain a cheaper policy online with Red Sands. I 
appreciate he may have been able to get a cheaper quote for a new policy, but thats not 
surprising. The new policy wont provide cover for pre-existing medical conditions and there 
would usually be a 14-day exclusion period, which limits the risk.
Red Sands will also consider the possibility a pet may have visited a vet since the policy 
started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this 
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by his existing policy. So, the premium 
will reflect this additional risk to them. Its also likely it would have included a new policy 
discount as this is commonly used by insurers as an incentive to take the policy out.
Where I think things did go wrong was in relation to the information given to Mr B when he 
first took out the policy. 
Insurers should provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading information so the 
customer can make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, in line with the 
obligations under the relevant rules.
One of the selling points of the policy Mr B took out was that it would provide lifetime cover, 
He was interested in this was because he wanted his dog to be covered for the remainder of 
its life. Red Sands should have made sure he understood the long term costs and limitations 
of this type of policy, which is usually more expensive. 
Mr B bought his policy online. I havent seen the screens he would have looked at so I dont 
know what he would have been presented with at the time. But I think its unlikely he was 
given enough information (if any) about the long-term costs. 
From the information Ive seen, the policy wording he would have been sent would have said 
something like: 
When inviting renewal of this policy we may, at our sole discretion (and for a valid reason as 
we deem appropriate, taking into consideration, but not limited to your pets age, medical 
and/or claims history) change the cover, benefits, premium, terms and/or conditions.
But I dont think Mr B should have needed to read through a long document to find this 
information  it should have been drawn to his attention. Even if he had read it, I dont think it 
goes far enough to explain the possible long-term costs. So I dont think Mr B had all the 
information he needed to make an informed decision about whether to buy the policy. And I 
dont think he would have expected the significant increase in the cost. 
This shock could have been avoided if hed been given better information about the policy. 
Mr B would also have been aware from the start that one day he might find he couldnt afford 
to carry on with the policy and must make a difficult decision about what to do.
Mr B also says he wasnt aware there was an additional co-payment for a claim when his 
dog reached eight years old. His policy is reviewed annually and under the policy terms Red 
Sands can change the cover, benefits, premium, terms and /or conditions, so it was able to 
introduce the co-payment. And its common for insurers to include this type of co-payment 
term when a pet reaches a certain age. But its a significant term and Red Sands should 
have made this clear to Mr B when he was buying the policy in 2013.
I dont know what Mr B would have seen when buying the policy online. But I can see from 
the key facts document he was sent in 2013 that it does say; Please note for Pets 8 years 
and over you are responsible for 35% of the remaining claim. So he was told about this.
And even if he hadnt been told about the co-payment in 2013, its unlikely he could have 
found a policy that didnt include a term like this. I think its unlikely he would have decided 
not to get insurance at all purely for this reason.Mr B says if hed had clearer information it would have made him consider whether it would 
be better to save the money each month to cover any vets fees himself, instead of taking 
out the policy. Its possible he would have been able to consider that. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean he wouldnt have taken out the policy. Rather, it means he lost the 
opportunity to consider alternatives.
Taking all of the above into account, and bearing in mind that Mr B wanted lifetime cover for 
his dog, I dont think he would have decided not to buy the policy at all. But I do think better 
information about the policy would have meant he wasnt so surprised and upset when the 
cost increased significantly  this would have been something he was aware might happen. 
The compensation Red Sands has now offered recognises that better information about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have avoided some of the upset caused. And I think it 
fairly compensates him for this. So I agree that it should pay this to Mr B.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to pay £200 compensation to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman