DRN-4314530
Complaint
Ms N has complained about loans Chetwood Financial Services Limited (trading as Better 
Borrow) provided to her. She says that she shouldnt have been accepted for her loans as 
they were unaffordable.
Background
Better Borrow provided Ms N with a loan for £5,000.00 in December 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 29.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £8,094.17, which included interest of 
£3,094.17, was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £170. This loan was 
repaid early with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
Ms N was provided with a second loan in June 2022. This loan was for £10,000.00 had an 
APR of 27.5% and the total amount to be repaid of £20,729.92, which included interest of 
£10,729.92, was due to be repaid in 84 monthly instalments of around £246. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms N and Better Borrow had told us. And he thought 
that Better Borrow hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms N unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Ms Ns complaint be upheld. Ms N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ns complaint.
Better Borrow needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Better Borrow needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether  Ms N could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Better Borrow provided Ms N with a loan for £5,000.00 in December 2021 and a loan for 
£10,000.00 in June 2022. These loans were due to be repaid in 48 instalments of just under 
£170 and 84 instalments of around £246 respectively. 
Better Borrow says it agreed to Ms Ns applications after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on credit searches it carried out and all of this information showed Ms N could 
comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms N has said 
she should never have been accepted for these loans.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms N and Better Borrow have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Better Borrow has provided the details of its credit 
searches. And Better Borrow having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply rely 
on what it had been told by Ms N and that it took some of its own steps to check at least 
some of the information she provided in her application. 
Better Borrow searches appear to show that Ms Ns existing commitments were relatively 
well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Ms Ns debt totals at the time of 
the applications were also reasonable in comparison to her income and they appeared to be 
relatively well managed. And there isnt anything else obvious in the information gathered 
which leads me to think that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Ms Ns actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Better Borrow obtained. I know that she says 
that shed recently taken another loan with another provider and that as her property was 
under shared ownership there were rent payments which werent taken into account in 
Better Borrows income and expenditure assessment. 
But Ms N didnt declare any of this at the time. And Better Borrows checks didnt show this 
either. Given it wont have been aware of the shared ownership status of Ms Ns property 
and it will have seen she had a mortgage, I dont think Better Borrow can be expected to 
have queried the possibility of rent payments.
Ive also kept in mind that loan 1 was repaid with some of the proceeds from loan 2 and that 
loan 2 was for a higher amount. But loan 2 was taken out not too long after loan 1 and it was 
at a slightly lower interest rate over longer term. And the credit check didnt show that Ms Ns 
indebtedness elsewhere had significantly increased either. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Ms N might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on her finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Ms N couldnt have afforded the 
loan payments either. 
I that accept that if Better Borrow had obtained Ms Ns bank statements in the same way a 
mortgage provider would  it may have reached a different conclusion. But the key here is 
that Better Borrow wasnt providing Ms N with a mortgage. It was providing unsecured loans. 
And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies in the information that had been obtained, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into doing anything further. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Better Borrow did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Ms N - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ns indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably.So overall I dont think that Better Borrow treated Ms N unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loans. And Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms N. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint, I would remind Better Borrow of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Ms N is 
experiencing difficulty and it chooses to collect payments from her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman