DRN-1572104
 
The complaint
Mr P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 2004, in connection with a store card he'd taken out in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
AXA has told us Mr P bought the policy over the phone, some time after he took out 
his store card. From what we know about AXA's phone sales processes at the time, I 
think it's likely that AXA would've made it clear to Mr P that he had a choice about 
buying the cover. And as the policy was sold after Mr P had taken out his store card, 
I think he would have been aware that he didn't have to buy the cover to get the card. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to ask about his circumstances, or whether he had 
any other means to cover his repayments. But even if AXA had recommended the 
policy to Mr P, it doesnt look as though it was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr P has told me he was self-employed. But 
from what I've seen, I'm not persuaded it would have been any more difficult for Mr P 
to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it wouldve been for 
someone who was employed. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Mr P.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman