DRN-3134892
The complaint
Mr L complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled his claim on his commercial 
insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr L had a smallholders and landowners insurance policy with AXA to cover his farm and 
outbuildings. In November 2020 there was a fire in an outbuilding that destroyed the entire 
structure. He made a claim on the insurance. 
AXA sent out a loss adjuster to the site shortly after the fire. However it discovered a 
potential problem with the sum insured for the outbuilding. This required two further visits in 
the months that followed.
By June 2021 Mr L still hadnt had confirmation of how his claim would progress and he 
made a complaint to AXA. It didnt respond in the required time so he asked this service to 
investigate.
Our investigator contacted AXA to ask it to confirm its decision on the claim. After a few 
months it confirmed that while the outbuilding was underinsured, it didnt think a qualifying 
misrepresentation had occurred under the Insurance Act 2015. However it said the policy 
contained an average condition and so it would reduce the claim value proportionately 
based on the amount it was underinsured by. 
Our investigator considered this but didnt think AXA had acted fairly. He said that the 
Insurance Act 2015 allows a proportionate settlement if there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. However as AXA had confirmed there hadnt been a misrepresentation 
under the act, these supersede any policy conditions, so he didnt think it fair for AXA to 
settle the claim proportionately. He therefore recommended AXA pay the claim in full, in line 
with the remaining(?) policy terms and conditions. 
Our investigator said the settlement should be based on the cheapest of two quotes for the 
work to rebuild the structure that Mr L was to obtain. He said AXA should pay 8% interest on 
this from January 2021 until the date the settlement was paid.  Further, he identified eight 
months of delays caused by AXA that could have been avoided and recommended it pay 
£750 compensation to make up for these. 
Mr L accepted our investigators opinion. However AXA didnt. It said as there was a policy 
condition that allowed it to apply an average, it wasnt fair or reasonable for our investigator 
to find that this could not be applied. It also didnt agree with the interest it had been asked to 
pay. However it accepted our investigators recommendation of £750 compensation. It asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA says that Mr L was underinsured, as the value of the outbuildings covered in the policy 
was significantly less than the true re-build cost. Because of this, its said it will apply the 
average clause in the policy and offer a proportionate settlement. 
When considering a complaint where the under insurance is alleged, I must first consider 
whether there has been a qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant law. Mr Ls policy 
is a commercial one so the law that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the act says a commercial policyholder 
must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of 
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. If it is found that they 
didnt fulfil this duty then in order to say there has been a qualifying misrepresentation, the 
insurer needs to show that it would have either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on 
different terms. 
Often when it comes to underinsurance, the insurer will show that if the full value had been 
declared then the policy would have been more expensive. In these instances the Insurance 
Act allows the insurer to settle a claim proportionately, based on the proportion of premiums 
paid, against what the policy should have cost.
In this case AXA has said that it doesnt think a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred. 
While it hasnt offered any further detail as to why, this means that it either thinks Mr L 
presented the risk fairly, or that it would have made no difference to the policy cost or terms. 
So even if it considers Mr L didnt make a fair presentation of the risk when he took out and 
renewed the policy, the evidence Ive seen suggests that it wouldnt have made a difference 
to the policy it offered, and therefore its subsequent obligations in the result of a claim. For 
this reason, I dont think its fair that Mr Ls settlement has been reduced.
Further, the remedies laid out in the Insurance Act supersede policy clauses. And AXA 
wouldve been aware of these remedies when it wrote the terms of its contract with Mr L. 
And under the act where there hasnt been a qualifying misrepresentation, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for AXA to reduce the claim settlement, when the relevant law doesnt 
offer this as a remedy. Even though there is a policy clause.
I have also considered Mr Ls comments about the significant increase in the cost of building 
materials in the months before the incident due to a number of factors, including Brexit. And 
in AXAs Loss adjusters report of May 2021 it states as follows:
We are aware due to the nature of the current market and significant factors such as Brexit 
and the COVID pandemic lockdown that the cost of materials has increased substantially 
over the last year especially insulation materials. Lead-in times for contractors to commence 
works have been extended due to the unprecedented demand for construction works at this 
present time. Therefore, we suggest that any rates and costs are very fluid due to 
fluctuations in the market conditions and costs. 
This suggests that the difference in the true rebuild cost and the sum insured is at least in 
part due to the large increases in costs of building materials. And because of this I dont 
think its fair to penalise Mr L for these sharp increases. As I cant see that he could have 
done anything more when taking out and renewing the policy to ensure he got a full 
settlement.
I understand AXA strongly disagrees with this position. It says the decision means insurers would never be able to rely on an average clause in the policy. However when making a 
decision I have to consider the merits of the individual case. This includes taking 
consideration of policy conditions, the relevant law and whats fair and reasonable. And 
when considering everything here, I dont think AXA has acted fairly by applying the average 
clause in this instance.
Putting things right
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that AXA should settle Mr Ls claim based on 
the cheaper of two quotes he is to obtain for the rebuild, in line with the relevant policy terms 
and conditions but without applying the average clause.
Our investigator said that 8% interest should be added to the settlement amount. Since the 
decision came to me, Ive explained to both sides why I dont think this would apply here. As 
this would only apply if Mr L had already paid for the repairs, to make up for the time he had 
been without the money. I therefore wont ask AXA to pay interest on the settlement amount. 
Finally our investigator recommended AXA pay Mr L £750 compensation to make up for the 
delays and poor service. Both sides have accepted this amount so I see no reason to depart 
from our investigators recommendation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle Mr Ls claim based on the cheaper of two quotes he is to obtain for the rebuild, in 
line with the remaining policy terms and conditions (such as an excess) but without 
applying the average clause.
Pay Mr L £750 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman