DRN-3401089
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society appointed a Power of Attorney (POA) on 
his account. 
What happened
Nationwide accepted a request from Mr Fs wife, Mrs F, for her to have powers of attorney 
over his account. It was agreed that Mrs F could deal with Mr Fs financial matters, including 
the ability to draw money out. 
In October 2020, Mrs F withdrew £2,665.33 which Nationwide permitted based on the POA 
terms. Mr F complained shortly afterwards that this was unfair and shouldnt have been put 
in place. Especially, without notifying him first. Mr F told Nationwide that he had agreed in 
2019 that a POA could be established if he became incapable of making decisions himself. 
However, he was at that time still perfectly able to handle his own affairs. 
Mr F later revoked the POA which Nationwide accepted. But as he sees it, Nationwide 
should not have put it in place to begin with, based on how Mrs F presented the 
arrangement. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it went ahead on the basis that the 
correct process had been followed. Upon bring the matter to our service, one of our 
investigators reached the same outcome. Because Mr F disagrees, the case has been 
escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail them here. 
Instead, Ive focused on the key points that are material to my decision  our rules allow me 
to do so. Having thought carefully about Mr Fs complaint, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
- Its common ground that Mr F granted his wife powers to deal with his financial and 
welfare matters upon certain conditions being met. These are detailed in the POA. 
- I find it fair and reasonable that Nationwide act with the best interests of its members, 
in keeping with the various regulations and principles of good practice. 
- Accordingly, if presented with a valid POA, the society ought to take steps to honour 
the terms specified. Along with, following the requests of the attorney so long as they 
comply with POA terms and conditions. 
- As far as I am reasonably aware, Nationwide was presented with valid proof of the 
authority Mrs F had as Mr Fs attorney. This was a copy of the original POA certified 
by a solicitor, together with satisfactory ID. Therefore, Nationwide acted in keeping 
with the contractual conditions Mr F agreed to when opening this account. 
- The POA permitted Mrs F the discretion to operate any account already open in      
Mr Fs name. The withdrawal that took place was not outside of the powers granted 
to her. Consequently, I cannot safely conclude Nationwide acted unfairly in this 
regard. Besides, Mr F has since confirmed the money was returned to him by Mrs F. 
- Mr F questions whether he ought to have been notified by Nationwide prior to the 
POA being registered on this account. But I am conscious that the terms Nationwide 
were supplied with clearly set out that Mrs F would become his attorney if she should 
reasonably believe that Mr F was no longer capable of manging his 
business/financial affairs. There is no mention that Mr F should first have to be 
notified or grant permission for these powers to be exercised. So, I dont deem it 
unreasonable that Nationwide proceeded with Mrs Fs requests  everything 
suggests the society acted within the specific conditions of the POA. 
- Finally, while Mr F questions whether the principles and good practice of a POA were 
followed, including whether account was taken of his present and past wishes, I am 
not satisfied these are issues that Nationwide should be expected to ordain. This 
would require Nationwide to (amongst other things) figure out whether the decision to 
implement the POA would benefit Mr F and if it was being taken when that benefit 
could not reasonably be achieved without it. In the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded such matters were for Nationwide to determine.
- Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied Nationwide was handed a valid 
POA which it accepted in good faith, in line with the specified terms and its own due 
process. It follows that I do not require Nationwide to take any further action relating 
to this complaint. For completeness, should Mr F wish to pursue matters relating to 
the legitimacy of this or any subsequent attorney documents, I believe this would be 
appropriately considered through legal proceedings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman