DRN-4391771
The complaint
Mr B on behalf of business P has complained about the total loss settlement offered by 
Covea Insurance plc paid when he made a claim under his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an incident and he made a claim to his insurer, Covea. Covea
said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Bs car and declared it a total loss. Mr B decided to
keep his car and paid for repairs.
As Mr Bs car had non-structural damage, Covea categorised the write off as N (previously
called a category C). At this stage Mr B had decided not to proceed with his claim. He
arranged his own repairs to the car. Mr B says he discovered the marker when he submitted
details of the car online to sell. He raised a complaint with Covea. He said he was unhappy 
with the settlement sum it had offered to deal with the claim, the salvage fee and the marker.
Covea considered adverts Mr B provided for similar cars and increased the total loss
settlement to £5,000. It said that as Mr B has kept the car, it would deduct a salvage fee
from the settlement along with the excess.
Mr B was unhappy with the salvage fee as it had increased when the total loss settlement
sum increased. He didnt think this was fair. Mr B wanted a final sum of £4,000.
Covea said the settlement of £5,000, deducting a £1,300 salvage fee and the excess of
£500 was fair and in line with the policy.
Mr B didnt agree and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought the total
loss settlement had been reached in a reasonable way by Covea. But he thought Covea had
overestimated the repair costs - and as it had initially undervalued Mr Bs car - he thought it
had unfairly applied a marker to write off the car. The Investigator thought that had Covea
correctly valued Mr Bs car at the outset, it would have been repairable and so he 
recommended Covea remove the marker recorded against the vehicle.
Covea didnt agree. It said with the higher valuation, the repair costs would have still meant it
was entitled to write off the car as it wasnt economical for repair.
Mr B said he wants Covea to pay a fair settlement for the car. He said he paid £2,400 for the
repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2023. I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
In response, Mr B says Covea didnt offer to deal with his claim until this service got 
involved. He says Covea hasnt acted honourably, but he is willing to accept my provisional 
decision on condition of actions he wants the broker to take about a refund of premium. 
As the broker is a separate business to the insurer, Covea, I cannot consider Mr Bs request 
to accept my final decision on condition of any action he wants the broker to take. Mr B will 
need to contact the broker directly with his request.
Covea didnt reply to my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information to change my view, my final decision is along the 
same lines as my provisional decision. 
We dont decide a valuation, but we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation
reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Bs policy with Covea says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the trade value of
the car at the time of loss. Coveas appointed engineer initially suggested a trade valuation
of £3,050 for Mr Bs car, based on one of the main motor trade guides.
Our approach is to look at all of the available motor trade guides to reach a fair valuation.
And having done so, this showed that Coveas increased valuation offer of £5,000 is within
the range of the available guides. So I think as a starting point, this sum has been reached in
a fair way and in line with the policy.
If an insurer pays a total loss settlement, the car becomes the property of the insurer -
unless a customer wishes to keep it. There is nothing wrong with this, but the insurer is
entitled to deduct a salvage fee to reflect what it would otherwise have received for the
salvage after paying a settlement for the vehicle. Covea has provided its salvage rates to
this service so that we can see if it has applied the fee of £1,300 fairly. This is commercially
sensitive information and so cannot be shared with Mr B.
It isnt for us to interfere in any commercially sensitive agreements an insurer may have with
a salvage agent. But we can look at whether an insurer has treated a customer fairly and as
it would any other customer in the same circumstances. Having reviewed the information
provided by Covea, Im satisfied it has done so. This means I think its reasonable for Covea
to deduct a salvage fee of £1,300 from the total loss settlement of £5,000. And as the excess
is payable when making a claim, it is also fair for Covea to deduct £500 from the settlement
sum.
According to the severity of the damage, a written off car will be given a category which an
insurer will record under a voluntary code agreed between the Association of British Insurers
(ABI) and salvage dealers. It isnt unusual for an insurer to decide a vehicle is a write off if
the repair costs are over 60% of the valuation amount for the vehicle.
Mr B says he repaired his car for £2,400. I havent seen evidence of this. Ive looked at the
engineers report which estimated the repair costs at £3,104 including VAT. In this case, as
the repair costs quoted by the engineer are over 60% of the final value Covea gave for Mr
Bs car, I cant say that Covea unreasonably applied a category marker.
Mr B says he wasnt made aware that Covea had applied a category N marker. Covea
provided a copy letter dated 7 March 2022 addressed to Mr B which confirmed Covea had
applied the marker. Covea says it sent a letter to Mr B as he hadnt responded to previous
mails confirming the same - including how to make a claim. I appreciate Mr B says he didnt 
receive it, but Im satisfied it was sent by Covea. Covea says it knows Mr B received its email dated 13 December 2021 setting out the
details, as he replied to this email on 21 June 2022 requesting an update on the claim.
From what Ive seen, I think Covea has dealt with Mr Bs claim fairly. I think the trade 
valuation of £5,000 has been reached in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. I think 
it is fair for Covea to deduct a salvage fee of £1,300 and apply a category N marker.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman