DRN-4288433
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt dealt with his chargeback claim correctly.
What happened
On 14 January Mr D made a payment of £18,550 to B, a retailer, using his HSBC debit card. 
He says B told him it didnt have the goods in stock and gave a delivery date of 21 January, 
but that this date passed without him receiving the goods. Mr D adds that a couple of days 
later he had an email exchange with B in which the retailer told him the stock was delayed, 
and that it would refund his payment. However, hes not received the goods or a refund.
Mr D subsequently asked HSBC to see if it could recover his payment as he hadnt received 
the goods. The bank raised a chargeback on this basis, to which B submitted a defence that 
it had supplied the goods to Mr D at point of sale. Both Mr D and B have provided conflicting 
invoices for the transaction. Mr D wanted HSBC to progress the chargeback claim to an 
arbitration stage within the card scheme rules. But based on Bs response, HSBC was 
unwilling to do this.
Mr Ds unhappy that HSBC wouldnt escalate the chargeback claim and that this has caused 
him to lose his money. In response to Mr Ds complaint, HSBC acknowledged some service 
shortcomings and errors in the information it gave him. While the bank said these hadnt 
affected the outcome of the claim, it paid Mr D £150 by way of apology.
Our investigator felt HSBC had dealt with the chargeback claim correctly, notwithstanding its 
acknowledged shortcomings. She considered the evidence  which included call recordings 
from the point of sale  supported the banks decision not to escalate the claim. Following 
Mr Ds referral of his complaint to us, the bank had offered a further £75 in an attempt to 
settle matters. The investigator thought that was fair. But Mr D didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions, maintaining his view that HSBC was negligent in deciding not to 
take his case forward for arbitration. Hes asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require HSBC to take any further action in relation to Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds chargeback request was based on what he alleges to be a failure to provide the 
goods he paid for. Im conscious Mr D has focused on what he considers to be the relative 
strength of his arguments in his dispute with B. But as the card issuer HSBCs role here was 
to raise the appropriate chargeback, and consider whether any filed defence complies with 
the relevant chargeback rules. It can then take a view on whether to escalate the dispute to 
arbitration by the card scheme. From what I can see, thats precisely what HSBC did. B 
responded with a valid defence, which HSBC considered suggested the matter was not 
appropriate to be put for arbitration through the card scheme.
I appreciate Mr D might hold different views about the banks decision. But that doesnt 
mean it was negligent not to escalate the claim. That would require the bank was under a 
duty to escalate the claim. Theres no such obligation in the card scheme rules; the matter is 
at the discretion of the card issuer in such circumstances.
Ive thought about how HSBC exercised that discretion. And Im satisfied it took into account 
relevant factors; the conflicting documentation supplied by the parties along with the banks 
own call recordings  in which B can clearly be heard asking Mr D to sign to say he had 
received the goods  all speak to the reasonableness of the banks decision not to progress 
the claim. Im aware our investigator discussed the content of these call recordings with 
Mr D. Im not satisfied his response is sufficiently persuasive for me to say they shouldnt 
have formed part of the banks decision-making.
On a final note, I dont accept Mr Ds contention that the banks decision not to escalate his 
claim to arbitration has caused him loss. Whether he has suffered a loss remains a matter to 
be determined, and chargeback isnt the only mechanism by which this can be achieved. 
Mr D remains free to pursue his underlying claim against B through the courts, should he 
wish to do so.
Like the investigator, I dont think theres a basis on which I could properly expect HSBC to 
take any further action or pay Mr D any more than the £225 it has already offered (and paid 
in part) in resolution of his complaint. As I understand his account has been closed, I will 
leave it to the parties to agree a suitable way of paying any residual sum, if accepted.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr D a total 
of £225 (inclusive of any amounts already paid), as it has already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman