DRN-4370486
The complaint
Mr K says WorldRemit Ltd (WorldRemit), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to a 
an authorised push payment (APP) romance scam. He says WorldRemit should 
reimburse the money he lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr K fell victim to a romance scam and was sadly duped into making payments to a 
scammer whom he thought he was helping.  
Mr K made the following transfers through WorldRemit:
Date Transaction Amount (including fees)
29/10/2021 Money transfer out £186.32
29/10/2021 Money transfer out £366.76
29/10/2021 Money transfer out £52.99
30/10/2021 Money transfer out £37.99
30/10/2021 Money transfer out £52.99
09/11/2021 Money transfer out £202.99
01/12/2021 Money transfer out £152.90
03/12/2021 Money transfer out £302.99
Total £1,355.93
Mr K, after realising he had been scammed, reported the matter to WorldRemit. WorldRemit 
didnt consider it was liable for the losses Mr K incurred and it couldnt recover any of the 
funds as they had already been collected by the beneficiaries. 
Unhappy, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They didnt consider the transfers Mr K 
made were remarkable and wouldnt have put WorldRemit on notice that Mr K may be at risk 
of financial harm. So they didnt think it needed to intervene and therefore didnt consider it 
could have prevented his loss and werent liable to reimburse Mr K. And as the funds had 
already been collected there was nothing further WorldRemit could do to help Mr K.
 
Mr K disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
First, I would like to clarify that this decision focuses on the actions of WorldRemit in relation 
to the payments Mr K made. Mr K has other complaints with our service about other money 
transfer service providers which are being dealt with under separate complaint references.
Second, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less 
detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine 
whether WorldRemit should have done more to prevent Mr Ks losses. If theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as an alternative to the courts. 
I do appreciate Mr K, across the payments he made from WorldRemit and other payment 
service providers, lost a lot of money. But I have to assess the actions of the individual firm 
in question. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but Im not upholding his complaint. I know hes been the victim 
of a cruel romance scam but I dont believe WorldRemit has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in its answering of the complaint. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a money transfer / payment service
provider (in this case, WorldRemit) is expected to process payments and withdrawals that
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions.
It is the case that Mr K authorised the payments in dispute and thats accepted by all
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant
regulations in place here) that means Mr K is responsible for the payments. That remains
the case even though Mr K was the unfortunate victim of a romance scam.
There are times when, dependent on the payment that I might expect a payment service
provider to question a transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly
authorised. Broadly speaking, firms (like WorldRemit) have certain obligations to protect
customers from fraud.
So in this case, I need to decide whether WorldRemit acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Mr K when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more
than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. And in doing so, it is important to take into consideration the
purpose that customers use payment service providers such as WorldRemit for. The
primary purpose is to send payments, often in a particular currency, abroad. Payments are
typically for friends and family members and payments can range from one-off low amounts,
regular amounts weekly / monthly and for one-off larger amounts.
So when Mr K used WorldRemit to make payments, I cant fairly say that there
was anything unusual or remarkable about the payments or the amount that reasonably
ought to have alerted WorldRemit to the possibility Mr K was potentially at risk of financial
harm, where I would expect WorldRemit to have concerns and step in and question Mr K
further about the payments. It is also important to note that payment service providers such as WorldRemit arent a
bank or building society where there is an ongoing relationship between the parties which
enables the monitoring of accounts in order to detect and possibly prevent the risk of
financial harm when a payment is made. This can make it inherently more difficult for a
business such as WorldRemit to identify that a customer is at risk of financial harm where
there isnt a lot of historic usage.
Here, there wasnt a historic relationship between the parties and WorldRemit didnt have
a history of payments, or account usage to refer to in determining whether the payments
being made by Mr K could be classed as unusual or out of character. The only history it had 
was the payments Mr K made as a result of the scam. All of the payments in question that 
Mr K made were of low value so wouldnt have appeared remarkable to WorldRemit. I 
appreciate Mr K made three payments initially on 29 October 2021, but the payments 
werent remarkable amounts overall and were also made across the space of a whole day. 
The first payment was made at 05:41am, the second payment was made at 09:20am and 
the final payment made that day was at 11:16pm. To my mind it wouldnt have suggested to 
WorldRemit that anything untoward was possibly going on or that Mr K was at risk of 
financial harm given its primary intention as a payment service provider is to send funds 
abroad.
 
All things considered, I dont think there were grounds for WorldRemit to be suspicious
Mr K may be a victim of fraud or at risk of financial harm to an extent whereby I would expect 
them to intervene and question Mr K about the payments. And I think the fact that
WorldRemit didnt flag the payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in
the circumstances  given the primary reason for the use of payment service providers as 
Ive explained. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr K has been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think
WorldRemits decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ks instructions to make the payments and I 
havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Unfortunately, WorldRemit wasnt 
able to recover any of the funds Mr K sent, as they had already been collected, so there was 
nothing further it could do for Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman