DRN-3600077
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A.(Mapfre) declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
On 24 November 2020 Mr O bought a single trip travel insurance policy through an online 
comparison website for his trip, to a country Ill refer to as N, from 1 December 2020 to 
27 January 2021. The policy was insured by Mapfre.
When Mr O was returning to the UK his internal connecting flight in N was delayed which 
meant he missed his planned flight to the UK. He paid for another flight after contacting 
Mapfre who wouldnt pay for an alternative flight at the time. On his return Mr O complained 
to Mapfre.
Mapfre said it correctly declined the claim. It said:
The policy specifically excluded cover for trips to countries where the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) (formerly the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) had advised against all but essential travel to that 
country. At the time Mr O went on the trip that FCDO advice was in place for N. 
It had made exceptions for people who had to travel to countries where that FCDO 
advice applied if they had to tend a dying loved one. But even if Mr O had evidence 
that his mother was critically ill before he travelled his claim still wasnt covered as 
hed bought economy cover which didnt give cover for delayed flights.
It would refund the cost of the policy to Mr O.
Mr O complained to us. He said:
The reason for his trip was essential, his mother was undergoing cancer treatment. 
And hed travelled to a state in N where the FCDO advice not to travel didnt apply.
Hed bought the policy through an online comparison website and ensured it met his 
needs at the time. Mapfres hadnt sent him the policy documents. Travel insurance 
was to cover circumstances like he had so the policy shouldnt have been sold to him 
if it didnt meet the basics of cover. 
He wants Mapfre to pay for the new flight.
Our investigator said Mapfre had fairly declined the claim and its offer to refund the cost of 
the travel insurance policy was reasonable.
Mr O disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he added:
Hed reviewed the policy terms and conditions before buying the policy and Mapfre 
was wrong to say his level of cover didnt cover missed flights.  
The FCDO exclusion wasnt in the policy he bought otherwise he wouldnt have 
bought it so we should ask for the policy wording from when he bought the policy. 
He sent us an email screenshot of Your demands and needs statement for the 
poilcy which he said showed his policy covered cancellation.
Hed entered the departure and return date and trip destination into the comparison 
website which gave this policy as one he could buy. Mapfre and the online 
comparison website shouldnt have recommended the policy if it wasnt going to 
cover his trip.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that Mapfre must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. I find that Mapfre reasonably 
declined the claim. Ill explain why.
Travel insurance policies dont cover all the circumstances that policyholders find 
themselves in. The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr Os contract of insurance 
with Mapfre. Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to consider what 
Mr Os policy says about his cover.
Mapfre sent us the relevant policy document and Mr Os policy schedule. The policy terms 
and conditions say under the heading General Exclusions Applicable to All Sections of the 
Policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:
17. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit 
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)or the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) or similar body has advised against all or all but essential travel.
So the exclusion Mapfre relied on to decline the claim was in the policy Mr O bought. Its a 
common exclusion for travel insurance policies.
Ive checked the historical records of FCDO travel advice for N on the date Mr O travelled to 
N. The FCDO advice was dependent upon the particular region in N. For some states the 
advice was against all travel. For the remaining states the FCDO advice was against all but 
essential travel.
Im sorry to see the reason for Mr Os trip and understand why the trip was essential to him. 
But whether or not the policy exclusion applies doesnt depend on whether Mr O, Mapfre, or 
I think the reason for his trip was essential. The exclusion applies when the FDCO has 
advised against all but essential travel and that advice was in place for where Mr O travelled 
to. So under the policy terms Mapfre could decline the claim.
Mapfre told Mr O it was making exceptions for people who had to travel to countries where 
that FCDO advice applied to tend a dying loved one, which was reasonable for Mapfre to 
do. However Mapfre said even if he had evidence those were his circumstances the 
economy cover hed bought didnt cover the claim.
Mr Os policy schedule shows that he did buy economy cover. The policy shows economy 
cover doesnt include cover for missed departure (section I of the policy) or delayed departure (the section K Mapfre referred to in its final response letter to Mr O). Flight  
cancellation could be covered as an optional extra for an additional premium under economy 
cover but Mr Os policy shows he didnt buy that optional extra. 
The demand and needs statement that Mr O sent us says the policy covers a range of 
contingencies. including cancellation. But thats cancellation of a trip before Mr Os 
departure for the whole trip, which wasnt his claim circumstances, and as Ive said any claim 
would be subject to the policys terms and conditions.
I think Mapfre fairly said there was no need for Mr O to provide evidence about his mothers 
health as his policy didnt cover the circumstances of his claim. 
I note Mr O said Mapfre hadnt sent him the policy documents after he bought the policy. But 
if that was so it would have been reasonable for him to contact Mapfre, or the seller of the 
policy, to ask it to send him the documents. 
Mr Os raised concerns about the sale of the policy. The policy says Mr O entered into a 
contract of insurance with Mapfre and a separate contract with another named business to 
arrange and administer the policy. From the information in the policy it seems as if the other 
business didnt sell Mr O the policy on Mapfres behalf. So Mr O will need to raise his 
concerns that the policy was mis-sold with that separate business and if they cant agree he 
can ultimately make a mis-sale complaint to us to consider.
Im satisfied that Mapfre reasonably declined the claim. Its offer to refund the policy premium 
to Mr O on the basis that his claim wasnt covered was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman