DRN-4516801
The complaint
Ms B complains Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) unfairly settled her claim on her 
motor insurance policy after her car was damaged in a fire and deemed a total loss.
There are several parties and representatives of Sabre involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Sabre.
What happened
Ms B was involved in an incident whilst in her car in December 2022. She made a claim on 
her motor insurance policy. There was a delay in collection of the car by Sabres approved 
repairer and her car was not recovered from the roadside until January 2023.
The car was taken into secure storage that was approved by Sabre. As Sabre were unable 
to find one of its approved repairers that was available to take on the repairs, it agreed Ms B 
could have the repairs undertaken by a garage of her choice. 
Before Ms Bs car could be delivered to the garage she had elected to conduct the repairs, a 
fire occurred at the storage location and her car was damaged. When inspected it was found 
to be beyond economical repair and therefore considered a total loss.
Sabre made a total loss settlement for the car. It offered £21,500 less the policy excess and 
said this was the pre-accident value.
Ms B said this did not cover the outstanding finance on the car. She said as she was not 
responsible in any way for the car being classed as a total loss due to the fire that Sabre 
should cover the cost of the outstanding finance on the car.
 
Sabre said whilst the settlement figure for the finance agreement was larger than the 
valuation, the outstanding debt is not representative of the vehicle's valuation.
As Ms B was not happy with Sabre she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and felt Sabres use of the 
policy terms and conditions regarding settlement of a total loss are unreasonable in these 
circumstances. They recommended Sabre increase the settlement payment to £27,712.56, 
which was the outstanding finance balance, minus the policy excess and award £500 
compensation for the ongoing inconvenience of being without a car for approximately nine 
months, costs of alternative transport and distress caused. 
As Sabre is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
When Ms B made her claim it was for accidental damage caused by a third-party. Sabre 
confirmed the damage to the car had not been inspected prior to the fire but was understood 
the car was repairable. The damage reported was slight damage to front nearside and 
passenger front side and a flat tyre. It also said the car starts but doesn't move.
 
I saw on 7 February 2023 after the car the car was taken into storage there was a fire in 
which Ms Bs car was damaged and then after inspection it was deemed beyond economic 
repair and it made a market value offer in settlement. I saw on 9 February 2023 Sabre 
authorised a hire car for Ms B for two weeks.
I looked at the details within Ms Bs motor insurance policy with Sabre. On page 15 of the 
terms and conditions of the policy it says;
Market Value
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
Sabres settlement offer of £21,500 as market value for the car was rejected by Ms B. She 
said the amount offered did not cover the outstanding finance on the car and as she was not 
responsible for the damage Sabre should settle all the outstanding finance. Sabre did not 
increase its offer as it said it was not responsible for her finance agreement. The market 
value settlement was paid to the finance company on 3 May 2023. 
Although I do understand Ms B wasnt responsible for the fire damage to her car, the fire 
was an unfortunate event that could have happened at any point. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms B, but I cannot hold Sabre responsible for 
any finance agreement attached to Ms Bs car as this was an agreement made by herself 
and a third-party. Finance agreements apply interest which in this case meant the 
outstanding amount on the finance agreement was greater than the market value offered by 
Sabre for the loss of her car. I cannot fairly ask Sabre to settle the outstanding finance.
In this case I think the fair approach is for Sabre to pay the market value of the car and as 
the fire that caused Ms Bs car to be damaged beyond economical repair happened whilst it 
was with Sabres approved storage provider, I do not think it was fair for the policy excess for 
the total loss of her car to be charged. I think Sabre should waive the excess on the policy.
As per the terms and conditions of the policy Sabre must offer Ms B a fair market value for 
the car. So I considered if the £21,500 offered for the full market value of the car was fair.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars
specifications, mileage etc into account.
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
I looked at the information Sabre used when calculating the market value for Mr Bs car. I 
saw it obtained valuations from two of the main trade guides using the date immediately prior 
to Mr Bs claim. In this case the two valuations were £21,250 and £22,419. Sabre paid 
£21,500 less the policy excess.I looked at valuations from four guides that were obtained by our investigator, using the date 
Ms Bs car was damaged. These include valuations from the two same guides as used by 
Sabre and valuations from two different trade guides that gave higher valuations. The 
highest valuation was £23,694 and the others were slightly lower.
We take the approach that if Sabre can demonstrate that it used a fair process to value the 
car then we wouldn't interfere with the offer it has made. In this case as Sabre only obtained 
two valuations and it then paid a lower settlement than the highest valuation obtained by 
both itself and our service, I do not think it offered a fair settlement figure.
As the four trade guide valuations obtained for Ms Bs car by our service are similar, we 
would expect the insurer to pay the highest of the valuations. In this case this is £23,694.
As Ms B made a claim on her policy for the initial damage to her car, she is liable for any 
outstanding motor insurance premiums for the term of the policy. 
Ms B has been caused long-term disruption and inconvenience due to the incident with her 
car being in the fire and the ongoing fair settlement for the loss of her car. So I think Sabre 
should award compensation of £500 to recognise this. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint and require Sabre to pay her a total 
settlement amount of £23,694. It should not deduct any excess from this amount. 
Sabre has already made payment of £20,500, I intend for it to pay the difference of £3,194. I 
also intend for Sabre to pay Ms B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B responded and said 
She would like to add a separate point that Sabre had held her responsible for the 
accident and had put it on her credit file.
Sabre responded and said 
£500 compensation had already been paid.
It had contacted the finance company to clarify whether there remains an outstanding 
debt on the agreement so it can ensure the payment is raised to either the finance 
company or Ms B directly.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms Bs comments
I have not seen any evidence that says Sabre has held Ms B responsible for the accident. 
Ms B is liable for any outstanding motor insurance payments in line with terms
and conditions of her policy and credit agreement. Her policy was cancelled by Sabre due to 
non-payment of premiums and it is able to pursue Ms B for any outstanding amount due if 
not paid.  
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed; I maintain my provisional decision and I uphold 
Ms Bs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I have given uphold this complaint.
I require Sabre Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms B a further £3,194 as settlement for 
the total loss of her car. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date 
the original settlement figure was paid until the date paid. This amount  should be paid to the 
finance company if there is still an outstanding debt. In addition it should pay £500 
compensation for the disruption, stress and inconvenience caused to Ms B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman