DRN-1284059
 
The complaint
Miss R complains that Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd didnt warn her that her 
motor insurance policy with an insurer would renew automatically.
What happened
Miss R says she didnt receive an email from Acorn warning that her motor insurance policy 
it had arranged would be renewed automatically. 
Acorn said in its final response that it was sorry Miss R didnt receive her renewal notice to 
her email address. But on 11 February 2019 it did send it to the email address it had for her. 
And the renewal documents were issued to her on 1 March 2019.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Miss R says she received an email with her policy documents sent on 1 March 2019. 
So, it seems Acorn had her correct email address recorded.
Acorn has shown a renewal email was sent on 11 February 2019 to the same 
address. It has explained what it said but cant regenerate an exact copy as it was 
generated automatically.
 Miss R says she didnt receive this 11 February 2019 email and any advance 
notification of the policy being renewed. But taking everything into account it appears 
on balance that Acorn did send Miss R an email on this date and that it properly set 
out the renewal invitation in the accompanying letter and documents.  This was done 
well in advance of the original policy ending. 
So, he isnt asking Acorn to do anything else.
 
Miss R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss R was happy to correspond with Acorn by email. And it obviously had her 
correct email address as she received the email sent on 1 March 2019 with  the renewal 
paperwork.
Acorn cant produce an exact copy of the email it says it sent Miss R on 11 February 2019 
as it was automatically generated. But that doesnt mean it wasnt sent. Its unfortunate if 
Miss R didnt for some reason receive this email. But on the available evidence that isnt 
something I can reasonably hold Acorn responsible for. Taking everything into account I agree with the investigator that  its more likely Acorn sent 
the 11 February 2019 email to Miss R, than not. And as I dont think Acorn has done 
anything wrong I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything more.
Miss R has also indicated she is unhappy that the policy was automatically renewed. But 
that is a new issue of complaint and something she must pursue with Acorn directly in the 
first instance. And its not something I can comment on in this complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman