DRN-1880757
 
The complaint
 Mrs R says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Bradford & Bingley disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what Bradford & Bingley has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint. This is because I think its likely Bradford & Bingley didnt give Mrs R enough 
information about the term of the policy restricting claims for pre-existing medical conditions. 
This would have mattered to Mrs R because she did suffer from a medical condition which 
had caused her to take time of work. It was the type of condition that could easily have 
recurred. 
The application form itself doesnt give this information. It only asks whether youve had a 
medical condition (which on Mrs Rs form is ticked yes). And theres nothing noted on the 
form to say an adviser told Mrs R about the restrictions at the time. 
The only evidence, of Bradford & Bingley giving Mrs R the information, is a letter it sent her 
about two months after she signed the application form (but before the policy started). It did 
warn her she wouldnt be covered for the condition she had declared. But I dont see this as 
good evidence Bradford & Bingley warned Mrs R at the actual point she agreed to take the 
PPI. She would, at the stage of the letter, have had to actively take steps to cancel the PPI, 
and she may have been worried that this would jeopardise the mortgage process. 
And in fact the letter didnt say she could cancel the PPI, or tell her how to do that. So I think 
its likely she wouldnt have realised she could cancel the PPI at that stage anyway.
I dont think shed have bought the policy, if shed been given enough information. So I think 
Mrs R has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things rightBradford & Bingley should put Mrs R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Bradford & 
Bingley should:
Pay Mrs R the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Bradford & Bingley must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Mrs R compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman