DRN-3193087
The complaint
Mr L complains about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn down his claim for the 
theft of his caravan.
What happened
Mr L held insurance cover for his caravan with SoL. 
Mr L decided to sell his caravan. On 14 April 2018, he signed a broker sales agreement with 
a dealer (that Ill call S). It was agreed that S would sell the caravan for £9,700 and pay this 
to Mr L within 30 days of the sale being concluded. However, S then sold the caravan for 
£8,000 and didnt pay any of the sale proceeds to Mr L. Several other caravan/motorhome 
owners had a similar experience with S. S then went into liquidation. 
Mr L made a claim under the policy for theft. SoL turned down the claim as it didnt think theft 
had occurred. SoL later also said it thought the claim fell under some exclusions in the 
policy. Unhappy with this, Mr Ls representative brought a complaint to this service on his 
behalf.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for SoL to conclude that the claim fell under an exclusion for deception.
Mr Ls representative didnt accept our investigators conclusions. The matter has therefore 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy excludes:
any theft or loss arising from deception, financial loss, or the use of stolen, forged or invalid 
cheques, drafts, bank notes and the like.
I therefore need to consider whether the loss of Mr Ls caravan arose from deception.
Mr Ls representative has provided an email from the liquidator of Ss business. She says 
she was engaged by Ss director prior to the liquidation, as the director thought they may 
be able to trade their way through the situation. 
Mr Ls representative therefore thinks there wasnt an outright intent to deceive on Ss 
directors part when the agreement with Mr L was made. He also thinks S may have paid 
the agreed return price to some customers.
I see that S was investigated by the Insolvency Service, and the director of S signed a 
Disqualification Undertaking. In this, the director of S made it clear that when she 
entered into brokerage agreements between January and May 2018, she knew or ought 
to have known that S was insolvent and unable to pay the agreed return price to 
customers. Also, from May 2017, the director of S entered into similar brokerage 
agreements to Mr Ls, but used customer funds to settle historic liabilities.
The agreement between Mr L and S was that payment of the return price of £9,700 would 
be made to Mr L 30 days after the sale of the caravan had been concluded. Taking the 
above into account, I think its more likely than not that S knew they wouldnt be able to 
honour this agreement (even if they hoped they may be eventually able to repay Mr L). 
Consequently, I think its fair to say that S deceived Mr L into handing over his caravan.
Mr Ls representative thinks this service shouldnt rely on the information provided in 
the Disqualification Undertaking document, as this was produced for the purposes of 
the Company Director Disqualification Act 1986.
Given that the document relates to Ss directors knowledge at the time the agreement 
with Mr L was made, I think its appropriate for this service to take it into account. Though 
in any event, I see that the information Ive referred to above that was contained in the 
document was also published in the public domain by the Insolvency Service.
Mr Ls representative also argues that the sales agreement with Mr L was entered into by 
an employee of S, and that this employee didnt intend to deceive Mr L. However, Im 
satisfied the agreement was entered into by the employee on Ss behalf, and the director of 
S had overall responsibility for this, as evidenced by the statements contained in the 
Disqualification Undertaking.
Mr Ls representative has provided this service with an email written by the police. This 
says their assessment of the circumstances was that the director of S hadnt used trickery 
or deception to commit a fraud. They thought she had committed the crime of 
embezzlement, and had initially been charged with this rather than fraud.
Ive also seen a later letter written by the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service 
(COPFS). This says that criminal proceedings had been raised against the director of S, 
and there was sufficient evidence to libel a charge of theft. It also says that at the point the 
vehicles were in the director of Ss possession, there was no evidence of deception.
To be clear, Ive only considered whether it was reasonable for SoL to conclude thered 
been deception based on the relevant insurance exclusion and the ordinary meaning of 
the word. I would assume the police and the COPFS were considering this in the context 
of criminal law, and deciding which charges to raise against the director of S.
Mr Ls representative has referred to some previous decisions issued by my ombudsmen 
colleagues. Some of these say that a strict and literal application of an exclusion has the 
potential to result in unduly harsh outcomes. Mr Ls representative has referred to this as the 
harshness principle, and thinks this should be applied to this case. 
Im not bound by any of my ombudsman colleagues previous decisions, as each case is 
considered on its own merits. I can also confirm that Im required to consider a complaint 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Despite my 
sympathy for Mr L and the situation in which he now finds himself, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for SoL to rely upon the exclusion to turn down the claim. SoL has referred to other exclusions within the policy. However, I dont intend to consider 
these, as Im satisfied that SoL was entitled to rely on the exclusion relating to deception. 
I recognise that Mr L will be disappointed by this decision. The loss of his caravan has 
resulted in a significant financial loss for him. However, I think SoLs claims decision was 
fair as I consider it was reasonable for it to conclude that the loss of Mr Ls caravan arose 
from deception.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman