DRN-2888152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd sold them
investments that were too high risk for them.
In making their complaint, Mr and Mrs F are represented by a Claims Management
Company.
What happened
In 2002, Mr and Mrs F met with a Legal & General adviser as they were looking for advice
on their finances. Mr F had recently been made redundant and had received a sum of
money in his redundancy package.
Part of the advisers overall recommendation was for Mr F to invest £3,000 in a stocks and
shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) in the high-income trust fund.
In 2003, they met again with the same adviser, and Mr F invested a further £7,000 into a
maxi ISA, also in the high-income trust fund. Mrs F invested £3,000 into a mini ISA in the
same fund.
Mr F made a number of withdrawals from his ISAs between 2007 and 2008, and also
received an income totalling just over £3,500. Mrs F received an income from her ISA of just
over £760 and withdrew the balance of her ISA in 2007.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs Fs representatives complained on their behalf about the advice they
received to invest in these ISAs. They said that Mr and Mrs F had been mis-sold the
investments. The representatives said that Mr and Mrs F had gone through a significant
change at the time of the advice, as Mr F had recently been made redundant. They said that
Mr and Mrs F had never had such a large sum of money before and felt overwhelmed. The
representatives said it was the wrong time for Mr and Mrs F to invest; they were advised to
invest too much of their money and take too much risk with it.
Legal & General said that it was satisfied that the investments in 2002 and 2003 had met Mr
and Mrs Fs requirements. It didnt agree that they were unsuitable or mis-sold. Legal &
General said, in summary, that Mr and Mrs F were in a strong financial and personal position
at the time of the advice and didnt agree it had been the wrong time for them to invest. It
didnt believe that the amount invested in 2002 had been too high, and said that, by 2003,
they had shown they were able to build on their savings rapidly. It said that as a proportion,
Mr and Mrs F had invested less than 50% of their money in 2003.
Legal & General said that Mr and Mrs Fs risk attitude had been low in 2002 but theyd
agreed they were willing to accept a medium risk for a smaller proportion of their money for
potentially greater returns. It also didnt believe that their recorded attitude to risk in 2003 of
medium was inappropriate, given that they had built investment experience in the same
fund. Legal & General said that the investments had met Mr and Mrs Fs objectives.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He
said that in 2002, Mr and Mrs F had been advised to invest 50% of their available assets,
and he didnt think this was too much. However, he said that Mr and Mrs F were noted as
having a low attitude to investment risk, when the fund the ISAs were invested in was a
medium risk. The investigator felt that this was too high for Mr and Mrs F.
Looking at the advice from 2003, the investigator said that it had been a reasonable time for
Mr and Mrs F to review their finances and didnt think theyd been advised to invest too much
of their assets. But again, he didnt agree that Mr and Mrs F had become much more
experienced in investments by this time and didnt see how their circumstances would lead
to them being anything more than low risk investors. The investigator said that he thought
Legal & General should compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Fs investments with a
benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Return Index for half of their investments and
the average return from fixed rate bonds for the other half. He said Legal & General should
add interest to any loss at a rate of 8% simple per year.
Legal & General didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that in 2002, Mr F had
expressed that he was willing to accept a medium level of risk with £3,000 of his money. He
wanted some growth on his savings, and it didnt think it was unreasonable to put a small
amount into a medium risk investment to achieve this. Legal & General said that Mr and
Mrs Fs overall portfolio had been weighted towards no to low risk, which is what they agreed
with the adviser.
Legal & General said that Mr and Mrs F held an endowment policy for mortgage repayment,
which was a stock-market linked product. It said they had been in a better position in 2003
and had gained experience of their investments since 2002. Legal & General said that Mr
and Mrs Fs goal had been to increase their income from their savings, and the
recommendation met this.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. In summary, I didnt think it 
should be upheld. 
I said that when Mr and Mrs F met with the adviser in 2002, they were looking at ways to 
increase the income they were getting from their savings.
Mr and Mrs F were recorded as being willing to accept a low risk and this seemed to be in
keeping with their circumstances and considering Mr Fs recent redundancy. The adviser
recommended a range of savings and investments for Mr and Mrs F; including £3,000 into a
stocks and shares ISA in the high-income trust fund and £17,000 into a with-profits growth
bond.
They also put £14,000 into an instant access savings account which offered a higher rate of
interest for a guaranteed period and met the adviser again the following year, when this 
period ended.
By this time, Mr F had started a new job and the adviser noted that Mr and Mrs F wanted to
invest some of the money from this matured account. Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk was
recorded as medium. The adviser recommended that Mr F put £7,000 into a stocks and
shares ISA in the high-income trust fund and Mrs F put £3,000 into a stocks and shares ISA
in the same fund.I said I could see that Mr and Mrs F met with the adviser a number of times in both 2002 and 
2003 before they decided to go ahead with the recommendations that were made, and that 
they chose not to take up all of the suggestions made for them. For example, on both 
occasions, they decided to keep more of their savings available on an easy to access basis 
and in 2002 they didnt go ahead with the advisers suggestion for Mrs F to put £3,000 into a 
cash ISA until later. I thought this suggested that Mr and Mrs F had time and opportunity to 
consider the recommendations; ask any questions and were able to make decisions about 
what they felt was right for them at the time.
I also considered the recommendations letters the adviser sent to Mr and Mrs F. And I
thought these set out the reasoning behind them. The letter from 2002 talked about the
relationship between risk and reward and said:
Following this discussion you have decided that overall the maximum level of risk you were
prepared to accept for the greater percentage of any new investments was low, i.e. only
some capital risk but with variable returns but you would be prepared to take a medium risk
with a smaller proportion for potentially higher returns. This would balance your portfolio and
you wish to utilise (Mr Fs) mini stocks and shares ISA allowance in this way into a medium
risk category fund.
I thought this indicated that Mr and Mrs F were made aware that this particular part of the
recommendation represented a medium level of risk. The letter also said:
This £3,000 of your capital will be invested in the ISA which carries a medium risk so there
may be some volatility in the value of the investment. You are happy to accept that, although
the income level is good, returns are not guaranteed.
And regarding the investment from 2003, the letter said:
In summary, the changes we have made to your savings by incorporating the mini and maxi
stocks and shares ISA allowances for you both has made your portfolio more tax efficient,
with a medium risk level and providing you with a quarterly income These
investments, combined with the With Profit Growth Bond, which is classed as low risk and
your deposit-based accounts would mean that your portfolio overall is of low risk.
Thinking about Mr and Mrs Fs available savings and the additional money they were able to
save in the times between the advice, I thought the recommendation to invest in these ISAs 
in the high-income trust fund was a reasonable suggestion for them. I said I thought it met 
their requirement to enhance the income they could receive from their savings.
I said that I appreciated that, when considered in isolation, this particular fund may appear to
represent a higher degree of risk than they expressed they would be willing to take in 2002. 
But when I looked at the whole of the advice provided to Mr and Mrs F, I didnt think this was 
unreasonable when balanced with the range of products suggested for them.
From the total £10,000 invested into the stocks and shares ISA, I understood that Mr F made
several withdrawals from his ISAs through 2007/2008 which totalled just over £10,380 and
he received a quarterly income from it, totalling just over £3,590.
I also understood that from her £3,000 investment, Mrs F received a quarterly income 
totalling just over £760 and then withdrew her ISA in 2007 when she got back just over 
£3,340.I said I was mindful that Mr and Mrs F didnt have any previous investment experience when 
they met with the adviser in 2002. I appreciated that they had a mortgage that was 
supported by endowment policies, but I didnt think this was necessarily an indication of their 
experience of investing in stock-market linked financial products. And I also wouldnt say that 
the period of time between their investments in 2002 to those in 2003 wouldve given them a 
greater understanding or experience of investment products.
But, when I thought about Mr and Mrs Fs overall circumstances at the times they met with 
the adviser, and also what they were looking for from the advice, I didnt think that the 
recommendations to invest in these ISAs were unsuitable when I considered both the advice 
they received as a whole and what they were looking for from that advice.
The responses
Neither Legal & General nor Mr and Mrs F and their representatives responded to my 
provisional decision with any additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Legal & General nor Mr and Mrs F and their representatives have added any 
further comments for my consideration in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the findings that I reached in it.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman