DRN-3710743
The complaint
Miss S says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Miss S. 
The account was initially opened in January 2015 as a non-credit account. It was changed 
to a credit account in October 2016 with Miss S being given an initial credit limit of £410. 
This limit was increased to £510 in December 2016. 
Although Miss S entered into a repayment plan with Studio Retail in January 2019, 
Miss Ss account unfortunately later went into arrears. The account was then assigned to a 
debt collection agency and in March 2021 it was sold on to a third party. 
Miss S says shes unhappy that Studio Retail allowed her to open an account and 
continued to increase her credit limit when she was only making minimum payments each 
month and was experiencing financial difficulty.
Based on the limited information he had about Miss Ss financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. As Miss S didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Miss Ss account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has already set out in some detail why he didnt 
think Studio Retail lent to Miss S irresponsibly. Having reviewed the complaint myself Ive 
reached the same outcome as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Miss S, to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was likely to be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ss credit 
limit.
When Miss S was granted a credit account with Studio Retail, it says there were no 
significant signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. It was aware that Miss S 
owed money elsewhere with at least four other credit accounts plus a revolving credit 
account where she had used over 50% of the available credit. I cant see that Studio Retail 
asked Miss S about her income, which is something that may have helped it begin to build a 
picture of her financial circumstances at that point. As things stand, however, I cant say if its 
likely that had it done so, it would have seen that Miss S would have difficulty making 
payments to her account. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into account the relatively 
low opening credit limit of £410 she was given, I dont think there is enough to suggest that it 
would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account at this point. 
Miss S has only been able to give us limited information about her financial situation at the 
time. So we dont know what proportionate checks carried out by Studio Retail would have 
shown in relation to the credit limit increase Studio Retail gave Miss S in December 2016. I 
agree with our adjudicator that it would have been helpful for Studio Retail to have found out 
more about Miss Ss financial situation. I think again it should have requested details about 
Miss Ss income. But as things stand we havent seen enough to show that Miss S was 
experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that Studio Retail shouldnt have increased her 
credit limit at this time. And I dont think the information we have about Miss Ss financial 
situation at the time is enough for me to be able to find that had Studio Retail carried out 
additional proportionate checks, it would have found the credit limit increase to be 
unsustainable. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Studio Retails 
actions, first in opening the account and then in granting her a credit limit increase would 
have caused Miss S to lose out. I also dont consider that Miss Ss account history, prior 
to when she started incurring several late payment fees over the course of 2017, 
necessarily suggested her financial situation was worsening. And Im not persuaded that 
further enquiries into Miss Ss circumstances would have led Studio Retail to conclude 
that it should have taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. 
Miss S has suggested that Studio Retail ought to have realised she was getting into financial 
difficulty from the way the account was being managed. Ive reviewed the account activity 
and I can see that Studio Retail made it clear to Miss S that her account was falling into 
arrears from around November 2018. I see it wrote to her six times in the six month period 
before she started her payment plan in January 2019. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Studio Retail needed to do more to help Miss S once it became aware that she was 
struggling financially. 
It follows that I dont make any award as I dont think Miss S was caused any loss or 
material distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Studio Retail did after the credit 
was agreed and the subsequent credit limit increase. 
I understand that Miss S has been experiencing some difficult personal circumstances. I am 
sorry to hear about that. I would certainly expect that Studio Retail communicates to the third 
party now managing the account of the need to continue to act with appropriate forbearance 
in seeking to assist Miss S in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back the 
balance that is still owing on her account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman