DRN-3102461
The complaint
Mr P complains about the length of time it took AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
to remove a claim on his motor insurance policy from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database.
What happened
Mr P hit a kerb and damaged a tyre. He called AA and was told that a claim would have to 
be made on his policy. He was later told that a patrol could change the tyre. But Mr P spent 
some time waiting for this and then it took AA five months to remove the claim from CUE. AA 
offered Mr P £75 compensation for the confusion and delays in responding to his call out. 
But Mr P was unhappy that the delay in removing the claim from CUE had meant that he 
couldnt take advantage of a cheaper quote for cover with a different insurer. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AAs 
compensation for the initial delay and confusion was fair and reasonable. But he thought it 
had caused delays in removing the incorrect CUE record, and Mr P had to chase this up. He 
thought AA should pay Mr P £50 to compensate him for this and for his increased premium. 
Mr P replied that he thought £50 and £35.99 for his premium increase would be fair 
compensation. But AA declined to pay this without evidence which Mr P couldnt now obtain. 
Mr P also said that he had to chase AA and its communication with him was poor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as AA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Mr P first complained about the delay in AA responding to his call out and the confusion 
about whether it should be recorded as a claim. From its notes, I can see that AA eventually 
offered Mr P £75 compensation for this trouble and inconvenience, which he accepted. 
But then the claim that had been recorded in error wasnt removed from CUE for five 
months. And in this time Mr P had to chase AA to have it removed. AA agreed that it had 
made a mistake and it apologised for this. But I cant see that it offered Mr P any 
compensation for this delay and the calls he had to make. 
I think AA caused Mr P avoidable inconvenience and it should compensate him for this. The 
investigator recommended that AA should pay Mr P £50 compensation for this. And I think 
thats fair and reasonable as I think it reflects the impact the error had on Mr P and its in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Mr P also wanted AA to reimburse him £35.99 which was the extra premium he had to pay 
when he was unable to take out cheaper cover elsewhere due to the claim remaining on 
CUE. AA declined to pay this without supporting evidence of the quotes Mr P had obtained. 
But Mr P wasnt able to provide these due to the passage of time. 
I would usually agree that Mr P should provide evidence to support his claim for losses 
caused by AAs error. But I think Mr P has been consistent in his explanation of why he 
wants this modest sum reimbursed. I think hes provided an explanation of the timings of the 
quotes he obtained and why theyve expired. And I think its unfair for AA to ask for 
supporting evidence so long after the event. So I think AA should reasonably reimburse Mr P 
for this extra cost he incurred and so restore his position. 
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £50 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience and reimburse him £35.99 for his extra costs incurred due to its 
delay in correcting his CUE record. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman