DRN-2980756
The complaint
Mr O and Miss P complain about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited have 
administered a motor insurance policy. 
Miss P is concerned as Mr O, initially a named driver on this policy, was able to add his own 
car to her policy and payment for the additional premium was taken from her account without 
her knowledge.
This complaint is being brought to our service primarily by Miss P, so for ease I refer mainly 
to Miss P throughout. 
What happened
Mr O and Miss P live together, and Miss P held a motor insurance policy with Admiral in her 
name for her car. Mr O was a named driver on the policy. At this point, this meant Miss P 
was the policy administrator and therefore Admirals primary point of contact for the policy. 
When Mr O decided to buy his own car he contacted Admiral for an insurance quote and 
agreed for his car to be added to Miss Ps existing policy. The cover was to start from 30 
April 2021 and remain in place until Miss Ps existing policy expired (Miss P said she had 
discussed with Mr O that they would take out joint cover when her existing cover ended). 
The additional premium was £109.74 which was paid for from Miss Ps account as she was 
the policy administrator at this point.  
During the call to arrange the insurance, Mr O was asked if he wished to be the policy 
administrator which would involve taking responsibility for future payments associated with 
the policy. Mr O said that could be him. 
Miss P says she was sent an email from Admiral notifying her of changes to the account. 
Miss P made a complaint as she didnt think it was right that Admiral couldve made these 
changes without her knowledge, particularly as she hadnt given authorisation to take money 
from her account. 
Miss P didnt think it was right that this could happen on the policy  her previous experience 
as a named driver herself was very different as shed had no authority in relation to the 
policyholders cover. Miss P therefore said that General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
had not been adhered to. 
Miss P also raised some concerns that during the handling of this matter Admiral did not get 
in contact with her when they said they would. 
Admiral said a named driver could make changes to the policy. However, they accepted that 
Mr O should not have been made a policy administrator without Miss Ps agreement. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. They concluded that under the terms of the policy 
Admiral could allow a named driver to add a new car to the cover and that as Miss P was the 
policy administrator any payments relating to the policy would be her responsibility. So the 
investigator said Admiral hadnt done anything wrong in this regard. The investigator noted 
that Admiral had apologised for making Mr O the policy administrator and had asked Miss P 
if she wished this to be changed back - so the investigator said in the circumstances there 
was nothing more for Admiral to do here. And the evidence available showed that Admiral 
had tried to call Miss P as requested, so the investigator didnt think anything wrong had 
happened here. 
Miss P disagreed as she felt these things had been done behind her back without her 
agreement, and she didnt think this was morally right. 
Our investigator reviewed things again for Miss P. They confirmed Miss P had access to the 
terms and conditions and explained they were unable to alter their opinion about the 
complaint. Miss P said she still didnt think this could be right to take money from her 
account without her knowing. And our investigator again explained the terms set out that the 
policy administrator is responsible for all payments. Miss P also let our investigator know that 
renewal documents for the policy had been sent to Mr O even though it was originally her 
policy. And Miss P said the whole matter had caused her a lot of stress. 
Miss P asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Ive 
explained below why Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
The matter for me to consider here is whether Admiral has fairly administered the terms of 
this motor insurance policy. 
From reviewing the submissions I understand that much of Miss Ps frustration is to do with 
what is permitted under the policy as this is different to her experience with previous 
insurance arrangements shes had. I think it would be helpful to be clear that the role of our 
service is to resolve disputes on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the individual case  so it is not to interfere with Admirals commercial 
decision making about how they agree to insure their customers. If our service finds that 
something has gone wrong, our role is then to decide what, if anything, is a fair way to put 
things right for the individual as if the error had never occurred.  
If Miss P has wider concerns about Admirals policies she is free to highlight those with the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It may also help Miss P to note that our 
service does not fine or punish businesses  that is the role of the FCA. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy Miss P took out with Admiral to see if the 
terms have been fairly applied for her. From looking at the terms it is apparent that a named 
driver is able to add a car to the policy. And Miss P had added Mr O as a named driver to 
her policy, so I dont think Admiral acted in error here when taking Mr Os instruction to add 
his car to the cover. 
The policy terms Miss P agreed to when taking out the policy also set out that it is the 
responsibility of the policy administrator to be responsible for All payments relating to the 
policy, including the payment of the premium for the whole policy, the costs relating to any 
changes made to the policy by the policy administrator, a named driver or an acceptable 
caller and any other costs incurred in the administration of this policy by Admiral. In view of this, its difficult for me to say that it was wrong of Admiral to charge Miss Ps 
account for the changes that were made to the policy by Mr O in his capacity as a named 
driver. 
I realise that much of this has come as a surprise to Miss P and it has unsettled her that 
money has been taken from her account. I am also sorry to hear Miss P has said this matter 
has caused some upset in the relationship with her partner. I acknowledge what Miss P has 
said about the impact this has all had on her and in particular her anxiety which I understand 
is something that can have a significant effect on an individuals well-being. My findings are 
not set out to cause additional stress to Miss P, however based on the evidence and 
submissions Ive seen Im unable to say that Admiral have applied the terms unfairly for  
Miss P or treated her differently to any other Admiral customer with these terms, when 
accepting Mr Os request to add his own car to the policy or taking payment from her 
account as the policy administrator.
Admiral admits however that they should not have made Mr O the policy administrator 
without Miss Ps consent to do so. This is against their terms which say the policy 
administrator can nominate another policyholder to become the policy administrator. It is 
disappointing that Admiral did this and it appears they didnt even do this correctly as there 
was no discussion about whose bank details should be used for future payments.
I note Admiral offered to reinstate Miss P as the policy administrator on the policy, but she 
did not request this which is why it seems renewal documents were then sent to Mr O rather 
than Miss P around July 2021. (The policy terms explain that the policy administrator is 
responsible for distributing all documents for the policy). I can see that more recently Miss P 
requested our investigator approach Admiral to ask that she be made the policy 
administrator again. 
Overall, while Im aware of how unhappy Miss P is with everything thats happened, Im 
unable to say that Admiral made an error in adding Mr Os car to the policy or charging   
Miss Ps account given she was the policy administrator at this point. These were the terms 
of Miss Ps policy with Admiral when she arranged the cover. 
And while it is disappointing that Admiral made Mr O the policy administrator, Im mindful 
that Miss P was made aware in Admirals letter of May 2021 that they would reinstate her as 
the policy administrator if that is what she wanted. So I think Admiral acted fairly here in 
trying to put things right and it seems this could have corrected things before the renewal 
documents were due to be issued. 
Im also mindful that Miss P suggested there had been a breach of her personal information 
being shared because her partner Mr O had been able to add his car and become a 
policyholder. Admiral explained that Mr O became the policyholder for his own car and 
Miss P remained a policyholder for her car. And as Mr O was a named driver he was already 
authorised to call Admiral about the policy, so I dont think Admiral were unreasonable in 
speaking to Mr O about the cover. 
Our investigator has already let Miss P know that she can contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) if she believes Admiral have breached the GDPR - it is not for 
our service to decide if the GDPR has been breached.
Lastly, I agree with our investigator that theres nothing to suggest Admiral did not try and 
engage with Miss P when they said they would about the changes that had been made to 
the policy. Admirals notes show their attempt to contact Miss P to discuss what had 
happened.  My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman