DRN-2705777
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about Santander UK Plc. They have two mortgage accounts 
with Santander and they wanted to increase their borrowing on one to repay the other 
because one was charged on residential interest rates, whereas the other was charged at a 
higher buy-to-let interest rate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P feel Santander treated them unfairly. But its not my role to 
tell lenders how much money to lend to particular consumers for different purposes. 
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, 
to lend to consumers and for what purposes. My role is to ensure such judgement is 
applied fairly; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks. 
In this case, Santander applied its lending rules to Mr and Mrs P. Santander doesnt 
allow further borrowing on a mortgage to pay off other debts (including other 
mortgages) unless certain rules are met, and Mr and Mrs P didnt meet those rules. 
Santander treated Mr and Mrs P in the same way it would have treated any other of 
its customers if they would have made the same enquiry, and it considered 
Mr and Mrs Ps request in line with its lending policy.
Whilst I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr and Mrs P, I cant uphold their complaint 
as Santander did nothing wrong and it followed its lending policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman