DRN-4369923
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
Im aware Mr C and Mrs C are represented in this complaint but, for ease, I will only refer to 
them.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C were having some building work carried out and found some water damage. 
So, they contacted Accredited to make a claim. Accredited considered the claim and 
declined it because it said the damage was the result of wear and tear or poor workmanship.
When Mr C and Mrs C complained, Accredited maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr C and Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said it was reasonable for Accredited to decide an insured event hadnt taken place and 
that there wasnt cover under the policy.
As Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy provided cover for:
Water escaping from or freezing in any fixed domestic water system or heating system, 
washing machine, dishwasher, refrigerator, freezer or fixed fish tank in the home.
When Accredited reviewed the claim, it did this based on photos and other evidence Mr C 
and Mrs C provided of the damage. It found that the water ingress had been through the 
grout or sealant in the shower, which had been an ongoing issue that had caused wider 
damage, including to a bedroom. Mr C and Mrs C also provided a report from the builder 
who carried out the repair work. This said he thought there was insufficient support in the 
form of noggins under the tray which might have left it liable to excess movement.
It isnt entirely clear whether or not Accredited accepted there had been an escape of water 
that met the description the terms of the policy. Im not persuaded that water escaping from 
a shower in the way described was from a fixed domestic water system, which would mean 
there wasnt cover under this part of the policy. However, regardless of this, two pre-existing 
issues were identified, both of which were excluded under the policy. These were faulty 
workmanship and the failure of grout and/ or sealant. Mr C and Mrs C also had accidental 
damage cover. However, this type of cover doesnt apply to damage that happens gradually, 
which is what was identified for this claim. The insurance covered one-off insured events. I 
havent seen evidence that persuades me the circumstances of this claim were covered by 
the policy or that it was unreasonable for Accredited to decline it.
Im aware Mr C and Mrs C disagreed that the grout and sealants had failed and said they 
kept them in good order. They also said their builder was belts and braces and put in 
significantly more structure than some might. They said the supports were sufficient from the 
outset and it was the builders choice to bolster them to his own more exacting standards. 
However, I think it was reasonable for Accredited to rely on its findings and the information 
provided by Mr C and Mrs Cs builder.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Accredited to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman