DRN-1189278
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he was mis-sold a single premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy when he took out a Graduate Loan with HSBC Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr T took out the PPI in 2001. HSBC doesnt have a record of how Mr T took out the policy, 
but Mr T has said that it was during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T says it was never made clear to him that the policy was optional. HSBC doesnt have 
the paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it happened. But we 
have seen samples of the sorts of documents that would have been in use at the time. 
These show that Mr T would have needed to sign separately to confirm that he wanted the 
PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ts recollection of events 
has faded. Ive thought carefully about what Mr T has said. But looking at the evidence I do 
have, overall I think he would have been given a choice about buying the policy. On balance 
I think that he probably decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if 
he no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, the 
policy was suitable for him.
Mr T wouldnt have received any sick pay and he had no other means, such as savings, to 
fall back on. So I consider that he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr T has said that the policy wasnt suitable for him because he was self-employed. 
However, looking at the policy terms, it would have been no more difficult for Mr T to make a 
claim for unemployment that an employed person.Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he hasnt lost out as a 
result of anything HSBC may have done wrong. So theres nothing that HSBC needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman