DRN-4074342
The complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) cancelled his home insurance 
policy without any notification. 
What happened
Mr F bought an engagement ring and then called Tesco to include this as a specified item on 
his policy. Mr F says Tesco then cancelled his policy without giving him any notice. Mr F 
says he was abroad at the time and had to spend time looking for alternative cover. Mr F 
says this was supposed to be a memorable trip as he was due to propose to his partner.    
Mr F complained and Tesco responded and explained they made a decision to cancel Mr Fs 
policy as the engagement ring exceeded the policy limit. They said Mr F then called and 
increased his contents cover to ensure he would be covered within his home and new 
documents were issued to him. Tesco said Mr F made further calls, but they didnt mention 
anything about the impending cancellation of the policy. Tesco said, theyd reviewed the 
matter and feel the policy shouldnt have been cancelled and instead an underwriting referral 
shouldve been made explaining Mr F had increased the cover and ask for the cancellation 
to be reconsidered. Tesco apologised and offered £250 compensation.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F. He agreed Tesco had made an error and 
recommended they increase the compensation to £400 and amend any database showing 
this policy has been cancelled by Tesco. Mr F agreed but Tesco disagreed with the 
recommended compensation, so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr F. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Tesco have admitted they got things wrong in providing incorrect 
information to Mr F about the cancellation of his policy. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether their offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Tesco should compensate Mr F for the shock, worry and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Tesco and what the impact of that error 
has been. 
In their final complaint response, Tesco accept the policy shouldnt have been cancelled  
they believe a new referral shouldve been sent to them as underwriter explaining Mr F had 
increased the cover. They also acknowledge, even though a cancellation notice was sent, 
after this point and during a call with an agent, Mr F was informed Tesco would leave the 
policy as it is and asked Mr F to call back if he wished to cancel. 
Based on the information Ive seen, and Tescos admissions, I think the cancellation caused 
Mr F shock, worry and inconvenience. I acknowledge Tesco say a review shouldve taken 
place after Mr F increased his contents cover, but I cant say what the outcome of this 
wouldve been. It might well be the case that Tesco mightve felt a cancellation was still 
appropriate given that Mr F had made them aware of an item which exceeded the policy 
limit. But, its the fact that, after increasing the contents cover, the agent led Mr F to believe 
his policy would remain as it is and he would need to call to cancel. Its this error which, I 
believe, has caused a significant impact. 
Mr F explains his policy was cancelled while he was abroad, and this led to him having to 
spend time looking for alternative cover. He says a family member had to sit at his home 
until Mr F was able to find cover. I acknowledge Mr F was caused shock when he found out 
the insurance had been cancelled and was very worried at the thought his home wasnt 
insured. He was also caused inconvenience in having to find alternative cover  and given 
this was something which was completely unexpected, Mr F had to take time out of his trip 
abroad to arrange alternative cover. Mr F was able to find alternative cover so, while the 
impact of Tescos error was limited in duration, it did have a significant impact on him until he 
was able to find alternative and suitable cover. Up until this point, Mr F was clearly, and 
understandably, very worried his home wasnt insured.        
I acknowledge Tescos points and why they believe £250 is a reasonable level of 
compensation. They say this was a single mistake and it took Mr F a reasonable amount of 
effort to sort this as he was required to call them and obtain alternative home insurance. 
Tescos believe the impact here reflects the guidance on our services website for awards up 
to £300. I agree with Tescos point about there being an error here - with the impact lasting a 
few days. But, theres two points here which I believe are important to take into account and 
which justify an award higher than the £250 being offered. Firstly, theres the initial shock to 
Mr F when he found out his insurance had been cancelled. Its clear from Mr Fs testimony 
this news was completely unexpected  and I agree that was the case given the last 
conversation Mr F had with Tesco. I believe this caused considerable shock given that Mr F 
was assured his cover would remain as it is. Secondly, theres the specific worry Mr F had  
which is that he was left with no home insurance. I think this would likely cause anyone 
significant worry and, in Mr Fs case, he was abroad, so he had to arrange for a family 
member to stay at his home until this was sorted. This clearly shows Mr F was very worried 
about the possibility of anything happening to his home or contents while uninsured. 
So, taking into account the impact on Mr F, I think compensation of £400 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I wish to reassure Tesco that Ive read and considered 
everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Tesco have made an error which has had a significant impact on    
Mr F. So, in addition to the £250 already offered, they should increase their offer by £150  
bringing the total offered for this complaint to £400. Tesco should pay Mr F £400 for the 
significant shock, worry and inconvenience caused. Tesco also accept they shouldnt have 
cancelled Mr Fs policy so they should update any internal or external databases to show   
Mr F hasnt had this policy cancelled by them.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman