DRN-2289503
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of his mother Mrs F, has complained that Cestrian Financial Planning 
Services Limited (Cestrian) didnt provide enough information about the premiums payable 
when it sold her a whole of life policy. 
What happened
Mrs F, and her late husband Mr F, took out a whole of life policy in October 1993 through a 
representative of Cestrian. The policy was placed in trust for the benefit of two of their 
children. Mr A was appointed as trustee. The sum assured was £200,000 and would pay out 
on second death. They paid a premium of £311 per month initially.
In 2018 Mr A received documents relating to a review of the policy premiums. They said 
Mrs F needed to pay £642.37 to maintain the sum assured of £200,000. Mr A complained to 
Cestrian, saying he was present when the policy was sold to his parents and they hadnt 
been informed the premiums would go up in future. Before Cestrian provided a final 
response, in July 2019, Mr A received a further notification that the premiums would need to 
be increased to £850.79.
Cestrian didnt uphold the complaint as it thought the policy documentation made it clear that 
the premiums would be subject to reviews after 10 years. It said the policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Fs needs at the time, which was to provide an inheritance for their children.
Mr A referred Mrs Fs complaint to our service. He said that Mr and Mrs F had been led to 
believe they would only have to pay £311 per month for the duration of the policy and it 
wouldnt change. He said if theyd been made aware the premiums could increase they 
wouldnt have taken the policy out and wouldve made alternative investments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the policy Technical Guide and 
illustration, which had been given to Mr and Mrs F before they decided to take the policy out, 
made it clear that premiums would be reviewed and could go up.
Mr A didnt agree. He said a letter from the adviser sent to them in February 1993 gave the 
impression that the monthly premium of £311 wouldnt change. He said he thought the 
adviser needed to send them an advice letter clearly highlighting the terms relevant to the 
premiums. Mr A didnt think it was reasonable to rely on the information buried in the 
technical guide.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I appreciate this will be disappointing news for Mr A 
and Mrs F, so Ill explain why.
I think its first important to note the regulatory landscape at the time the advice was given to 
Mr and Mrs F. In 1993, Cestrian was a member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers 
and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) and so it needed to comply with its rules. 
Mr A said the adviser needed to send Mr and Mrs F an advice letter explaining his 
recommendation and drawing attention to the product features, particularly the reviewable 
nature of the premiums. But at the time of the advice in 1993, there was no such 
requirement for an adviser to issue a reasons why or suitability letter (as it is generally now 
known). This only became a requirement in 1995 when the rules were updated.
Under the FIMBRA rules applicable at the time of the sale, the recommendation made to 
Mr and Mrs F had to be suitable for their requirements and the adviser needed to give 
Mr and Mrs F sufficient information about the key features in order for them to decide 
whether to accept the recommendation. So, Ive considered whether the adviser gave 
Mr and Mrs F sufficient information about the key features of the whole of life plan 
recommended to them.
Ive reviewed the letter dated 11 February 1993 and the line Mr A has referred to says:
I promised to obtain quotations for you based upon a fund of £200,000 and I have pleasure 
in enclosing details from both Scottish Mutual and Skandia who have excellent 
arrangements in this field and as you will see the monthly premium to produce a fund of 
£200,000 on second death is between £297 and £311 per month depending upon the 
company chosen i.e. for approximately £3,600 per annum you would create an immediate 
fund of £200,000 payable on second death, whenever this occurred.
Mr A says he thinks the inclusion of the words whenever this occurred means that the 
premium payable at the outset (£311 for the policy taken with Skandia) would fund the sum 
assured of £200,000 regardless of the date of death. While I can see why Mr A has 
interpreted it in that way, my reading of it is different. I think the adviser is trying to convey 
that for around £3,600 per year, the full sum assured would be payable, regardless of how 
long the policy had been in place. While I think the adviser couldve been clearer in his letter 
that the premium may change in the future, I dont think this sentence alone wouldve misled 
Mr and Mrs F into thinking the premium couldnt change in the future.
I say this because the letter has to be read alongside the other information the adviser 
provided. The quote above refers to the illustrations produced for Mr and Mrs F and later in 
the letter, the adviser says that he had enclosed a descriptive booklet.
Ive seen copies of the illustrations dated 2 February 1993. The Scottish Mutual illustration 
clearly stated that the sum assured of £200,000 was guaranteed for the first 10 years, and 
after this the plan would be reviewed. Although Mr and Mrs F didnt choose to take out the 
Scottish Mutual plan, I think it highlighted to them the reviewable nature of this type of cover. 
The Skandia illustration stated that it should be read in conjunction with the Skandia 
Technical Guide  this is the document produced by Skandia which explained the key 
features of the plan. This was provided to Mr and Mrs F with the illustration.
Having reviewed the Technical Guide, I think it clearly explained the reviewable nature of the 
cover and that premium increases might be necessary in future. Mr A says that it wasnt 
reasonable for the adviser to rely on this document to provide Mr and Mrs F with the relevant 
information. This is because it was a 17 page document and the section specific to premium increases was on page nine. But I note that on the summary page at the start of the 
document it stated:
The contribution level must be sufficient to support the Sum Assured. For details, see 'The 
Sum Assured' on page 3.
On page three (the next page) it stated:
The Standard Sum Assured is a level of cover which is projected to sustain throughout life 
based on Skandia Life's current mortality charges, assuming the value of units in the 
underlying fund grows at a reasonable rate of growth throughout.
Increased Plan charges or unit performance below that assumed could result in the 
contribution level becoming inadequate to sustain the level of cover throughout life.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs F needed to read the whole document to know that a key 
feature of the plan was that contribution levels might not sustain the sum assured they had 
chosen throughout the life of the plan. The information on page nine also clearly explained 
why contributions might need to be increased.  
By providing Mr and Mrs F with the technical guide to accompany the illustration for the 
policy, I think the adviser did enough to ensure Mr and Mrs F had all the necessary 
information about the key features of the plan before they accepted his recommendation. 
There wasnt any requirement for the adviser to replicate the information contained in the 
key features in a letter. And I note that even though the illustrations were provided in 
February 1993, the decision to proceed with Skandia wasnt made until September 1993, 
with the policy starting in October 1993. So, I think Mr and Mrs F had sufficient time to 
review the information provided to ensure they understood how the plan worked before they 
made their decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the adviser misled Mr and Mrs F about the premiums payable for 
the plan. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman