DRN-1779917
Complaint 
Mr H, in his capacity as a director, complains on behalf of  Company T, a limited company, 
that TSB Bank plc (TSB) took too long paying a cheque into his personal name which has 
caused him inconvenience. 
Background 
Mr H originally complained to TSB is May 2018 after he encountered difficulties when trying 
to close Ts business account. TSB agreed they had made mistakes and awarded £78 
compensation, which they paid into Mr Hs personal account rather than into Ts business 
account. 
In November 2019, TSB did another review of their systems and felt that a further £72 
compensation should be paid as part of the original complaint. As T no longer held an 
account with TSB, they sent a payment by cheque in Ts name. Mr H wanted this to be paid 
into his personal account, just like the year before. TSB initially disagreed. They advised that 
any payments relating to a business needed to be paid into a business account. They also 
explained that the previous payment shouldnt have been sent to Mr Hs personal account 
and had been done in error. TSB suggested that T could open another business account 
with them or with another provider so that the payment could be cashed. Mr H wasnt happy 
with this outcome so asked us to investigate the complaint. 
After an initial review of the complaint our investigator asked if TSB would reconsider 
sending a payment to Mr H directly, given that it was asking T to open a new account only to 
pay in one cheque. TSB came back and agreed. They asked Mr H to provide a picture of the 
cheque they had sent, confirmation that it had been destroyed and his personal account 
details. Mr H was unhappy with this  he believed that TSB could have easily cancelled the 
cheque at their end and that they were causing him further inconvenience by asking him for 
this information. He asked our investigator to do a full review of the complaint. Following this 
review our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think TSB needed to pay the 
cheque into Mr Hs personal account as the funds belonged to T, not Mr H in his personal 
capacity. He also explained that we would only award compensation for inconvenience 
experienced by the company itself, rather than the people bringing the complaint on its 
behalf. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to explain the scope of what Im able to look at when 
deciding this complaint. The types of complaint we can look into are set out in the rules 
under which we operate. Included amongst the rules is a definition of who may use our 
service; that is, an eligible complainant. This means to be an eligible complainant, the complaint must be brought by a person (for example a consumer or a limited company) in 
their capacity as a customer about something a financial business did (or didnt do) to them, 
as a customer 
A limited company is a separate legal entity from the people that run it. This means that any 
payments in relation to the limited company should be paid directly to the company, rather 
than into the personal names of any directors that are running a company. In this case, the 
compensation relates to a complaint made about  Ts business account. So, T (the limited 
company) is the party that is eligible to complain here, not Mr H (the director of the 
company). Ive reviewed the complaint on the basis that it has been brought by T with Mr H 
being a representative of T. This means that  I dont think TSB were wrong when they 
insisted in making the compensation payment into Ts name, rather than to Mr H. 
I can see why Mr H would have preferred the payment to be sent to him directly, given that T 
no longer held a business account and especially as it had happened before, albeit by 
mistake. It was for these reasons that our service went back to TSB to see if they would 
reconsider sending the payment directly to Mr H. As explained above, although TSB werent 
wrong for insisting that the payment should be payable to T, they agreed to change their 
stance on this, which I think was fair and reasonable on this occasion. 
Mr H wants compensation for the inconvenience of dealing with this issue. But as explained, 
Im satisfied that TSB acted fairly and reasonably in the way it was seeking to compensate T. 
Where I dont think TSB has done anything wrong, Im not able to recommend it should pay 
any further compensation. I also dont think its unreasonable to ask Mr H to send details of 
the cheque, confirmation that its destroyed and his account details to TSB. TSB are only 
requesting these details to get the cheque paid, so I wont be making an award. I appreciate 
Mr H feels that he has personally suffered inconvenience by the way TSB has handled the 
situation. But for the reason Ive explained above, even if I did uphold this complaint, I 
wouldn't be able to compensate Mr H personally. As the eligible complainant is a limited 
company, I can only make awards for inconvenience if it was experienced by T itself, rather 
than the people bringing the complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome but for the reasons set out 
above, I dont uphold this complaint. If Mr H would like the cheque issued, he should contact 
TSB with the information requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman