DRN-3285930
The complaint
Miss T, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss T took out a 36-month instalment loan for £5,500 from ELL on 6 February 2017. The
monthly repayment was £292.61 and the total repayable was £10,533.96.
Miss T says ELL took advantage of her as she was in a difficult financial situation, and the
loan was mis-sold as the interest rate was criminally high. Also, when she entered into a
debt management plan ELL refused to suspend the interest charges.
Our investigator concluded ELL wasnt wrong to lend to Miss T. She said the lenders checks
were proportionate and there was nothing in the information it gathered to suggest it was
likely the loan would be sustainably unaffordable for Miss T.
Miss T disagreed saying ELL knew she was struggling financially when she applied, based
on the bank statements she provided.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked for any comments and new 
evidence by 3 February 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Miss T to understand her disposable income
before it approved the loan. It asked for her monthly income and used a national average to
calculate her living costs. It checked Miss Ts credit file to understand her existing monthly
credit commitments and credit history. It used copies of Miss Ts recent bank statements to
verify her declared income and some of her monthly costs. It asked about the purpose of the
loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Miss T
had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case, but I am not
persuaded ELL reacted appropriately to the information it gathered to make its lending
decision. Ill explain why.
ELL calculated that Miss T would have £142.85 disposable income, after consolidating six of
her outstanding debts and taking into account the repayment for this loan. But I can see it
used an assumptive £500 in its affordability calculation for Miss Ts living expenses. It had
copies of Miss Ts bank statements for the two months prior to this loan application. From
reviewing them and taking into account Miss Ts expenditure on essential items (utility bills,
insurance, tv license, telecoms, petrol, groceries, her current account fee and unarranged
overdraft fees) I can see she spent around £575 on average each month. I think as ELL had
this information it should have used it in its assessment. This would have meant Miss T had
less than £70 monthly disposable income and I dont think this made the loan sustainably
affordable over a three-year period. It gave her insufficient capacity to cover unplanned
expenses. I anticipate ELL will point out that it allocated £65 a week for rent that Miss T
wasnt currently paying  but I think this was a prudent and responsible approach in the
circumstances and cannot see any grounds to now change this approach, particularly given
the term of the loan.
In addition, after settling the debts she was consolidating Miss T would still have monthly
credit commitments of around £140 (as set out in ELLs Go Live Audit Agreement). After
adding in the repayment for this new loan this meant Miss T would be paying just under a
third of her net income to repay her debts. This is a significant percentage given her level of
income and again I think from this ELL ought to have realised there was a risk the loan
would not be sustainable for Miss T over its three-year term.
It follows I currently think ELL was wrong to lend to Miss T.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss T says the loan was mis-sold as the interest rate was criminally high. Also when she
entered into a debt management plan ELL refused to suspend the interest charges. I accept
the interest rate was high, but Miss T had to actively engage in the application process, so I
think its likely that she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything
which makes me think that ELL treated Miss T unfairly or breached industry practice
regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be refunded as
Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given. As this also addresses Miss Ts point
that ELL refused to suspend interest when she was in a debt management plan I wont
comment further on this.
I then set out what ELL would need to do if I went on to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
ELL responded before the deadline; Miss T did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
In response to my provisional findings ELL said:
It used the amount of £500 per month for Miss Ts expenditure based on 35% of 
income (with a minimum here of £500) and believes this is fair.
Miss T would be in better position financially after clearing some of her debts. Even 
taking into account the £575 of cost I had calculated, there would be a disposable 
income buffer and so it maintains the loan was affordable.
These comments do not change my conclusion. I will explain why.
ELL was obliged to respond appropriately to the information it gathered as part of its checks. 
In the regulators Consumer Credit sourcebook CONC 5.3.1(G) part 4 states If a firm takes 
income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment  its assessment 
should be based on what the firm knows (my emphasis) at the time of the assessment.So I cant see how it can argue it was fair to use an estimate for Miss Ts essential costs 
when it had the actual costs on her bank statements. Whilst, as it says, this left her with 
some disposable income, I disagree that less than £70 a month is enough to cover any 
unplanned and seasonal costs given this was a loan with a three-year term. So at some 
point it was more than likely the payments would become unsustainable for Miss T. It wasnt 
enough for ELL to assess the monthly pounds and pence affordability  it had to consider 
the sustainability of the repayments and the relevant guidance at the time, set out in CONC 
5.3.1, section 6, said:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement,
within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and unsustainable
has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
I think ELLs second point that as Miss T was consolidating debt she would be in a better 
position again still doesnt evidence it considered the longer-term impact of its lending. As I 
said in my provisional decision, once the debts she was consolidating were settled Miss T 
would still have monthly credit commitments of around £140 (as set out in ELLs Go Live 
Audit Agreement). After adding in the repayment for this new loan this meant Miss T would 
be paying just under a third of her net income to repay her debts. This is a significant 
percentage given her level of income and another reason I think ELL ought to have realised 
there was a risk the loan would not be sustainable for Miss T over its three-year term.
It follows I still think ELL was wrong to lend to Miss T.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss T to repay the capital that she borrowed because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her. So she has lost out and ELL must put this right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Miss T
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Miss Ts loan account will result in her having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Miss T a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman