DRN-3234820
The complaint
Ms P complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc recorded adverse information about her after 
she had been the victim of identity theft.
What happened
Ms P contacted Hitachi Capital in November 2020 to report that a loan had been taken out in 
her name fraudulently. She says she was told that this had been cancelled. She was 
unhappy to receive arrears notices for the loan from March 2021. Ms P says that even 
though she was then told that the loan was accepted as fraudulent the information on her 
credit record hadnt been removed and she had to complain again in May 2021. Ms P 
explains that she wanted to buy a property at the time and was told by her broker that she 
couldnt apply for a mortgage until this information was removed.
Hitachi Capital accepted that it had made mistakes. The account hadnt been dealt with by 
its fraud team after Ms P contacted it. And so, this resulted in the arrears notices. Even 
though the agreement was written off when Ms P contacted it in March 2021, there was a 
systems error in processing this which led to an incorrect update to her credit file. It offered 
to provide information for her mortgage company about this. It paid Ms P £170 by cheque 
when it dealt with her first complaint and offered to pay her £450 for the further complaint to 
recognise the impact on her. It said it would need to see a letter from her mortgage company 
or broker saying that it was Hitachi Capitals actions that prevented her buying a property to 
consider any further impact.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Hitachi Capital do more than it had now offered to 
do, and which was to pay Ms P a total of £620. It had now corrected the errors and had 
previously said it would have provided information to her mortgage company or broker to 
confirm the error. Ms P hadnt been able to provide any documentation to show that this had 
been the only reason shed not been able to buy the property she wanted with a mortgage.
Ms P didnt agree. She said that the offer was derisory taking into account the number of 
hours she had spent. She had to find details of the directors of Hitachi Capital to resolve this. 
She suffered heartache and the potential loss of a property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi Capital has accepted that Ms P has been the victim of identity theft. A fraudster 
managed to impersonate her and apply for a loan of £9,500 in her name. Ms P found out 
about this within days and understood that the loan had been cancelled. Unfortunately, as 
set out above this hadnt been resolved and Ms P received arrears notices. Shes provided a 
copy of her credit record showing the highest score possible before this. And that this then 
dropped significantly following the reporting of arrears. She again thought that this had been 
resolved in March 2021 only to find that her credit record hadnt been adjusted. And this was 
around the time she explained she wanted to buy a property at a favourable price.
I need to think about reasonable compensation. Ms P hasnt provided evidence to support 
compensation for her missing out on a property purchase. And nor that this couldnt have 
been mitigated as Hitachi Capital had offered to do. And Id need to think as our investigator 
says that she would otherwise have been able to buy this property and it was the only 
reason she couldnt. I think shes had a reasonable opportunity to obtain any evidence.
We dont tend to make awards for hours spent. Here Im thinking about the distress and 
inconvenience to Ms P caused by the actions of Hitachi Capital. And I agree that those 
actions compounded the distress she was caused by a fraudster managing to impersonate 
her. Ive taken into account our published guidance, what Ms P has said and the time taken 
to resolve things. Having done so I know Im going to disappoint Ms P when I say that I think 
that the offer made is fair and isnt less than I might otherwise have awarded. So, I wont be 
requiring Hitachi Capital to do more. It says it has already paid Ms P £170 by cheque. On the 
basis that she has received that money then it needs to pay her a further £450 making a 
total of £620.
My final decision
Hitachi Capital has made an offer to resolve this complaint which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc pay Ms P total compensation 
of £620 and this includes the £170 that it says it has already paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman