DRN-2388155
The complaint
Mrs A and the estate of Mr A say that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs A and the late Mr A took out a mortgage with YBS in 1997. Around the same time, they 
took out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage repayments if Mrs A was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy was free for the first six 
months. YBSs records show that Mrs A cancelled the policy before the initial six-month free 
period ended. The 1997 policy doesnt form part of this complaint  I mention it purely as 
background.
YBSs records show that in 2002 Mrs A phoned it to ask for a quote for PPI to cover 
unemployment only. Shortly after that, she took out a policy that would have paid out £1,010 
per month for up to 12 months if shed made a successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
thought that Mrs A had chosen to take out the PPI and had tailored the cover to suit her 
needs. He explained that there was no reason why she wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim. So he didnt think better information about the policy would have put Mrs A 
off taking it out.
Mrs A and the estate of Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs As told us that she believes that she was sold PPI without realising it, as she 
doesnt remember being told that PPI was being added to her mortgage or having any 
conversation with a sales adviser. Shes also told us that she was led to believe that she 
needed the PPI, and that it had to be taken out with her mortgage lender. I dont find 
those comments easy to reconcile. 
Ive borne in mind that when Mrs A took out the 2002 policy, Mr and Mrs A had already 
had the mortgage for five years. So I think it would have been clear that they didnt need 
to have PPI as a condition of the mortgage. And Im satisfied, having considered YBSs 
contact records, that Mrs A proactively contacted YBS in 2002 to ask for a PPI quote and 
subsequently took out the cover. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs As signed application for the PPI. Mrs A specified that she 
wanted a monthly benefit of £1,010, and she selected cover for unemployment only (as 
opposed to alternative options of accident, sickness and unemployment, or accident and 
sickness only) and an excess period of 30 days. YBSs records also show that Mrs A 
contacted it a few weeks after the policy started, to check that shed still be covered if 
she took up a secondment. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs A took out the PPI knowing that 
she didnt have to, and was aware that she had the cover  although I can understand 
how she may no longer remember this, so many years later. 
Mrs A says she cant remember whether YBS recommended the PPI to her, or gave her 
advice about it. YBS says it wouldnt have done. Mrs A took the initiative and 
approached YBS for a quote for PPI, and theres no record of YBS having recommended 
the PPI to Mrs A or having advised her about it. And Im satisfied, on balance, that YBS 
didnt recommend the policy to Mrs A or provide her with advice about it. This means that 
YBS didnt need to check that the policy was right for Mrs A. It was for Mrs A to decide 
whether she wanted to take the cover, knowing what alternative means she and Mr A 
would have had of meeting their monthly mortgage repayments if she lost her job. But 
YBS still had a responsibility to provide Mr and Mrs A with clear enough information 
about the PPI to enable them to decide whether they wanted to take the cover.
Mrs As told us shed have been entitled to very generous redundancy pay from her 
employer at the time. I dont know of any reason to doubt what shes told us. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs A received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses, and Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt have had to use any savings they had to make their monthly mortgage 
payments. 
Mrs A has provided evidence that she already had mortgage repayments cover with 
another provider when she took out the PPI with YBS. But Im satisfied, on balance, that 
shed have been aware of this when she applied for the policy with YBS. It isnt clear 
from the evidence provided whether the policy Mrs A held with the other provider related 
to the same property as the policy that Mrs A took out with YBS. But even if it did, it was 
for Mr and Mrs A to decide whether they wished to take out the additional cover that the 
YBS policy provided.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the insurance certificate that was sent to 
Mr and Mrs A. So I think theyd have understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And 
since they were paying for the cover monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if 
their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
Its possible YBS didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover  for example 
provisions about unusual employment arrangements or existing medical conditions. But 
based on what Mrs As told us about her circumstances at the time, its unlikely shed 
have been affected by any of these.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs A would have 
made a different decision about the PPI even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think theyd still have gone ahead with the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and the 
estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman