DRN-4253373
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to fully advise them about the 
option of using a cash facility they had available to hold their investment money. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would have disinvested and moved their money into the cash facility 
sooner, and so been able to mitigate investment loss, had they been made aware of this 
option earlier on. 
Mr and Mrs S want Nationwide to pay compensation in respect of investment loss over the 
course of 2022 which they put at approximately £15,000.
What happened
Nationwide provided Mr and Mrs S with a paid for advice service. 
Mr and Mrs S held investments within Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and General 
Investment Accounts (GIAs). Around February 2022, when Mr and Mrs S were becoming 
concerned about how these investments were performing, they contacted their advisor at 
Nationwide. After speaking with the advisor, they decided to hold on to their investments for 
the time being. 
Their valuations continued to fall as a result of market conditions and Mr and Mrs S got back 
in touch with the advisor in June 2022. 
Following discussion, Mr and Mrs S said they were considering options. In September 2022, 
after further volatility in the financial market, Mr and Mrs S contacted the advisor again and 
said they now wanted to encash, at which point the advisor mentioned the option of the cash 
facility. 
Amongst other features, the cash facility enabled Mr and Mrs Ss ISA investment proceeds 
to keep their tax free ISA benefits. 
Mr and Mrs S very quickly took advantage of this option. And they complained to Nationwide 
that it should have told them about this much sooner, given that they had first approached 
Nationwide for investment advice in February and spoken to the advisor again in June, but 
only been told about the cash facility in September.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, mainly saying (Im summarising here):
it was only in the latest phone call on 30 September that Mr and Mrs S moved from 
having concerns about their valuations to deciding they wanted to encash
thats when it was time to talk about what to do with the investment proceeds so the 
cash facility was mentioned 
previously Mr and Mrs S had told the advisor they were thinking about taking their 
money out but hadn't yet made a decision and wanted some general advice. The 
advisor said generally she would advise leaving funds invested to allow them to rise 
again as Mr and Mrs S had sufficient emergency funds and didnt need to draw on 
their investments for spending needs 
the advisor said shed made it clear in all discussions and Mr and Mrs S had always 
known they were free to take their money out at any time. She offered to book them 
in for advice if required and sent them a withdrawal form they could use if they 
wanted to do this themselves.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators.
The investigator acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling about what happened but 
explained that, even if Nationwide ought to have mentioned the cash facility sooner, he 
thought it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S wouldve remained invested for as long as 
they did. In these circumstances, he didnt think that Nationwide was required to pay 
Mr and Mrs S any compensation.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator, mostly saying that they would definitely have 
used the cash facility in February if theyd known about it then and in support of this, pointing 
to the fact that they took advantage of the cash facility just as soon as the advisor had drawn 
it to their attention in September. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs S feel about this complaint. I can understand that it 
was extremely stressful trying to make what they hoped would be the right investment 
decisions at the time.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. So I wont necessarily mention everything that has been brought 
to my attention and Ive expressed some of Mr and Mrs Ss concerns in my own words. But 
I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited or contradictory information. Theres more information on our website which explains 
the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ss central concern is that they were not advised when they 
contacted Nationwide in February and June 2022, that they could encash their investments 
and move their money to a cash facility, where it would effectively stay within an ISA 
wrapper and be available for re-investment at a later date.
Ive kept in mind throughout that Mr and Mrs S paid Nationwide for advice and Ive thought 
carefully about whether there was an onus on Nationwide to have clarified the cash facility 
option sooner, having been made aware of Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about their investments 
dropping in value.I cant know exactly what was said during phone calls between Mr and Mrs S and their 
advisor as they called her on a mobile phone number. Nationwide cant keep a record of 
those calls  Nationwide told us that only booked video or audio calls are recorded. But Ive 
had the benefit of seeing emails exchanged between Mr S and the advisor.
Mr S emailed the advisor on 17 June saying that the drop in value of their investments was 
making them nervous and:
we are thinking again about cutting our losses and withdrawing everything Please 
would you remind me of the easiest way to withdraw both our Stocks & Shares ISAs and 
also our GIAs?.. would a 1 Year Fixed Rate ISA be as good as anywhere to put the ISA 
savings.
In response, Nationwide responded on 20 June, specifically mentioning the option 
Mr and Mrs S had to transfer the money straight into a cash ISA to ensure funds remained 
within the ISA wrapper. The advisor also sent a withdrawal form in case they wanted to do 
this themselves. Mr and Mrs S were offered the option of an advice session: When it 
comes to encashing your investments we can book you in for a video meeting and provide 
advice in relation to this if you feel you need it.
Mr and Mrs S didnt want to do that: they responded by email saying: I don't think we 
need a chat at the moment as we are still mulling over our options.
Had Mr and Mrs S arranged an advice session, then the cash facility option might have 
come up in conversation as part of a wider discussion about Mr and Mrs Ss financial 
situation. The cash facility was mentioned in September as this was the first time 
Mr and Mrs S had expressed concern about market volatility to the point where they now 
wished to withdraw their funds quickly. 
Nationwide Building Society explained that from its point of view, this was the point at which 
Mr and Mrs S would now need to decide what they wanted to do with their money instead  
so thats when it reminded them about the cash facility. 
I dont think that Nationwide Building Society wouldve had any particular reason to think 
Mr and Mrs S had previously been unaware of the cash facility. The product information that 
was in use around this time shows information about the cash facility reasonably 
prominently. It was an important feature and I think its likely it would have been discussed 
when Mr and Mrs S decided to invest as they did. And when Mr and Mrs S turned down the 
offer of an advice session, I think Nationwide might reasonably have thought that 
Mr and Mrs S would have been able to inspect the product paperwork if they preferred to 
check out options for themselves rather than book a formal review and advice session with 
the advisor. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have said that they didn't want to withdraw their investments 
as they didn't want to lose their ISA status or incur fees setting up a new investment at a 
later date, and so they're unhappy they weren't told about the cash facility and only told 
about options to wait and see what happened - or withdraw. But this makes no difference to 
the outcome, because:
I dont think these issues would have arisen if Mr and Mrs S had chosen to transfer 
funds to a cash ISA.
Additionally, I think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs S chose to keep their GIAs in any 
event, even though loss of ISA status wouldnt have been a concern in respect of 
funds that were invested solely in their GIAs.If the only or main priority had been to avoid further investment loss, I dont think its 
likely that considerations about potentially losing the tax free benefits of an ISA or the 
risk of incurring set-up fees on reinvestment would have been enough to dissuade 
Mr and Mrs S from disinvesting. 
For these reasons, I dont feel I've seen enough to uphold this complaint. 
I would just mention here, even if I were to uphold this complaint, it would ultimately make no 
overall difference so far as the question of compensation is concerned. I say this because 
the ombudsman approach to redress is to also take into account what Mr and Mrs S could 
have done differently to mitigate any loss. 
Mr and Mrs S had known since at least June 2022 that they could move money without 
losing ISA protection and had the means to do this easily and quickly themselves if they had 
wanted to. They chose instead to remain invested, as they had done between February and 
June, and didnt approach Nationwide about this again until some three months or so later, 
in September 2022. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs S decided against disinvesting sooner than they did, having been 
made aware by the advisor that there was a way they could do this without risking their ISA 
tax benefits, tends to suggest that withdrawing from their investments wasnt their main 
priority prior to September 2022. If Mr and Mrs Ss overriding concern had been to withdraw 
funds sooner, its reasonable to expect that they would have taken up the offer of advice in 
June 2022 and/or taken advantage of the option they were told about regarding transferring 
the money to a cash ISA. So we wouldnt consider Nationwide Building Society would be 
responsible in those circumstances for the financial loss Mr and Mrs S are seeking to 
recover.
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps Mr and Mrs S to understand how I've 
reached my conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome they hoped for, they will at 
least feel that their complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman