DRN-2630780
The complaint
The estate of Miss W complain that TSB Bank plc failed to follow its own procedures when it 
wrongly paid the proceeds of the late Miss Ws account to a person who was not legally 
entitled.
The estate of Miss W is represented by her administrators Mr W and Miss W (the 
administrators).
What happened
The late Miss W had a current account with TSB. She passed away in July 2019. 
The administrators say that one of them visited TSBs branch shortly after Miss W passed 
away and asked it about closing the account. They say they were told theyd need to apply 
for Letters of Administration before the account could be closed. They applied for Letters of 
Administration and administration of the estate was granted to Mr W and Miss W in February 
2020.
The administrators presented the Letters of Administration to TSB, but it told them that the 
account had been closed in July 2019 by a person (Mr S) who had indicated he was the next 
of kin of the late Miss W. The administrators complained to TSB about what had happened.
TSB investigated their complaint. It said Mr S had presented a death certificate for the late 
Miss W. This showed that Mr S had been present at her death and was the informant named 
on the death certificate. TSB said Mr S had also provided it with a copy of the invoice for 
Miss Ws funeral. It said it had sent a bankers draft directly to the funeral directors to pay for 
the funeral and it had paid the balance in the account (£1810.21) to Mr S.
TSB acknowledged that Mr S was not the legal next of kin. It accepted it shouldnt have paid 
the balance in the account to him. It offered to pay this amount to the administrators together 
with £150 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions had 
caused. But it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong when it had paid the funeral 
account.
The administrators didnt accept this. They said theyd incurred fees taking out Letters of 
Administration. And, they said theyd already paid cash to Mr S to allow him to pay the 
funeral directors. So, they thought TSB should pay them the full balance that was in the 
account at the date of death together with the fees theyd incurred when theyd taken out 
Letters of Administration.
The administrators referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. She said TSB had acknowledged itd made an error when it closed the account at 
the request of Mr S. She thought TSB shouldnt have to repay the administrators for the 
amount they said theyd paid Mr S for the funeral account. The reason for this was because 
TSB had paid the funeral bill directly to the funeral directors. If the administrators had 
provided a separate cash payment to Mr S that wasnt something wed expect TSB to 
compensate them for.
Our investigator thought that TSB should cover the cost of taking out Letters of 
Administration which was £215. And, she said shed expect TSB to honour its offer to pay 
the administrators £150 for the distress and inconvenience theyd experienced.
TSB didnt agree that it should have to pay the costs of taking out Letters of Administration. 
The administrators also didnt agree with our investigator. They said TSB should 
compensate them for the amount theyd paid to Mr S in respect of the funeral bill.
Because TSB and the administrators didnt agree with what our investigator said, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just wish to express my condolences to the administrators on the death of 
their sister. I am sure this has been a very difficult time for them.
The administrators say that shortly after their sister passed away, one of them visited a 
branch of TSB and asked what they needed to do to close her account. They say this visit 
took place around the middle of July 2019 and theyve named the person they spoke to at 
TSB at that time. TSB says it has no record of this visit. But despite the fact that TSB has no 
record of the visit, Im satisfied, on balance, that it did happen. And, I think it explains why 
the administrators proceeded to apply for Letters of Administration. There was a cost to the 
estate for that application which was £215.
It may be that at the date when the administrator visited the branch, the account had already 
been closed  I cannot be certain about that. The account had been closed in July 2019. 
But, in any case, it doesnt seem to me that when the administrator visited TSBs branch, 
anything was done by TSB to check the status of the account or the balance in the account. 
That wouldve been necessary in order to give the administrator the correct information 
about what was required. 
TSB says there was no requirement, under its procedures, for Letters of Administration to be 
extracted where the value of the estate was less than £25,000. And, under its procedures, it 
wouldve closed the account if a death certificate had been produced. Thats how it acted 
when Mr S produced a copy of the death certificate. But that was not how it acted when the 
administrator attended the branch. 
TSB now accepts that when Mr S visited the branch it shouldve carried out further checks to 
ensure that he was legally the next of kin. It didnt do that. And its acknowledged it shouldnt 
have treated him as next of kin.
There are two separate payments which were made from the late Miss Ws account as a 
result of Mr Ss visit. The invoice for the funeral account was paid directly to the funeral 
directors and the balance in the account was paid to Mr S.
Ive looked at a copy of the invoice for the funeral account. I can see it was addressed to Mr 
S. Ive also considered the fact that when someone dies, a bank may agree to pay the 
funeral bill out of the deceaseds account. TSBs procedures indicate that it will do this if 
asked to. In this case, the funeral directors bill was presented by Mr S and, as Ive noted 
above, it was also addressed to him. The administrators say that TSB shouldnt have paid this bill without their consent. But it is 
the case that the estate of Miss W wouldve been responsible for paying the funeral bill. So, 
even though it didnt get express consent from the administrators, I dont think TSB acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it made arrangements to make a payment from the late Miss 
Ws account directly to the funeral directors to pay for her funeral.
The administrators have pointed out that, because they werent aware of what had 
happened, they separately provided Mr S with cash to pay the funeral bill. They think TSB 
should compensate them for this. The administrators havent been able to provide evidence 
of this payment as it was paid in cash. They say this payment was made in July 2019, and 
Mr S called to collect it. I accept what the administrators have said about the cash payment 
they made to Mr S. And I dont doubt that they believed these monies would be used by him 
to pay the funeral directors bill. But, I dont think TSB should have to reimburse this money 
to them. Ill explain why.
When considering TSBs actions, I can only take into account what impact they had on the 
complainant. Here, that is the estate of Miss W, as it was the late Miss W who had the 
relationship and account with TSB and its her estate that now holds that position. The 
administrators can bring a complaint on behalf of Miss W  but that doesnt mean I can 
consider the impact of TSBs actions on them directly. 
So, whilst I am very sorry to hear what the administrators have told us about how Mr S 
behaved when he took cash from them for the funeral bill at a time when he knew the bill 
had already been paid (or would be paid directly from the late Miss Ws account), our service 
cant make any award to them for that. 
As mentioned above, I am able to consider the impact of TSBs actions on the estate of Miss 
W. TSB has already agreed to pay the balance that wouldve been left in the account after 
the funeral bill was paid, to the administrators. I agree that it should do that. But, it is also the 
case that the estate paid £215 to take out Letters of Administration. Im satisfied it did that 
because of what TSB told the administrators. 
TSB has suggested that no fee would have been payable for taking out Letters of 
Administration. But, thats not correct. The fee was based on the total value of the estate and 
not just the amount of money in the TSB account. Ive inspected the Letters of Administration 
and Im satisfied a fee was payable.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied that this cost wouldnt have been incurred 
but for the fact that TSB incorrectly told the administrators it required Letters of 
Administration. So, I agree with our investigator. TSB should pay the costs associated with 
taking out Letters of Administration - £215.
Putting things right
TSB has agreed to pay the amount that remained in the account after the funeral bill was 
paid. That amount was £1810.21. The administrators will need to authorise TSB to make this 
payment to them by signing the appropriate forms, which TSB should provide to them.
In addition, TSB should pay the administrators £215 being the amount of the fees for taking 
out Letters of Administration in this case.
As our investigator said, Id also expect TSB to honour its offer to pay the administrators 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as a result of what happened 
here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc. I now require it to:
Upon receipt of the authorisation signed by both of the administrators, pay £1810.21 
to the administrators of the estate of the late Miss W;
Pay £215 to the administrators being the costs incurred by the estate when it took out 
Letters of Administration;
TSB has already also offered to pay the administrators £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result of what happened. I would expect it to honour 
this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
W to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman