DRN-2600826
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the charges hes been asked to pay when he returned a car after his 
hire agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited ended. 
What happened
Mr S took out a hire agreement with LeasePlan in August 2018 for rental of a car. There was 
an advanced rental payment of £922.74 to be followed by 23 monthly rental payments of 
£153.79.
 
In June 2020, Mr S had a problem with the car. Due to the global pandemic he hadnt used it 
for a few months, so the car had a flat battery. This seems to have affected the electronic 
key fob, which wouldnt work. But when Mr S tried to use the manual key blade to unlock the 
car, this wouldnt work either.
 
Mr S said a locksmith told him there was a fault with either the key or the lock. So he got in 
touch with LeasePlan and asked it to fix the problem. It told him if there was an issue with 
the keys he would need to speak to his local manufacturers dealership.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and, as his agreement was nearing its end, he asked for 
LeasePlan to collect the car as soon as it could and suggested his rental payments should 
be stopped. When he didnt get a reply, Mr S contacted LeasePlan again to complain. He 
said he wanted the car collected within seven days, he was cancelling any further payments 
and wanted a refund of a previous payment.
 
When LeasePlan didnt respond, Mr S got in touch again. LeasePlan replied asking for more 
information about the problem with the car. It said it needed this as Mr S had opted out of its 
maintenance package. He replied saying the problem wasnt due to maintenance and the 
locksmith had confirmed it was a pre-existing fault that would have been present before he 
got the car. He pointed to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and said it was 
reasonable to expect that goods are free from faults.
 
So LeasePlan arranged for a breakdown recovery service to come out and look at his car. It 
was able to open the car using the key blade. LeasePlan then sent Mr S its final response to 
his complaint. Briefly, it said he was liable for the payments to the end of the agreement, but 
LeasePlan wouldnt charge him for the breakdown recovery call out. Then, after LeasePlan 
collected and inspected the car, it sent him an invoice for damages totalling £289.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with the complaint response or the invoice for damages. He brought his 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. In short, she 
didnt think LeasePlan had made in error in asking Mr S to pay for the damages. But based 
on the evidence she had at the time, she thought it was likely there was a fault with the car. 
So she asked LeasePlan to refund one months rental to Mr S as he hadnt been able to use 
the car and pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. Our 
investigator said these amounts should be offset against the damages invoice.
 
LeasePlan didnt accept our investigators view. It said it helped Mr S by arranging for the 
breakdown recovery service to look at the car. LeasePlan also sent us a report from the 
breakdown recovery patrolman. It said this showed there wasnt a fault with the car. Based 
on this new information, our investigator said she didnt think there was a fault and she 
wouldnt be asking LeasePlan to do anything.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. He told us the patrolman had said the lock was faulty. Mr S felt 
LeasePlan should reduce the charges he was being asked to pay.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: is it fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to ask Mr S to pay the 
charges its invoiced him for?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
When reaching my decision Im required to take the law into account. Here, relevant law 
includes the CRA 2015. Im also required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
LeasePlan, as the finance provider, is responsible for the quality of the car provided under 
the hire agreement. The CRA 2015 implies a term into the hire agreement that the car 
should be of satisfactory quality. The crux of the matter here is whether the car supplied to 
Mr S was of satisfactory quality.
 
Generally, the CRA 2015 provides that where a fault is identified more than six months after 
Mr S entered into the agreement with LeasePlan, its for him to provide evidence the fault 
was present or developing when the car was supplied to him. While Mr S has given us his 
testimony that there was a fault with either the key blade or the lock, hes not provided 
anything to substantiate this or show the fault was present or developing when he got the 
car. He told our investigator the breakdown recovery patrolman told him there was a fault.
 
But this is contradicted by LeasePlans version of events  and it has backed this up by 
sending us a copy of the patrolmans report. This stated the locking/alarm remote control 
had gone out of synchronisation due to the car being left standing for two months and the 
manual lock was stiff and wouldnt fully turn to unlock the car. The patrolman went on to say 
he used extra pressure on the key blade to unlock the car. Once the car had been started 
the key fob was resynchronised.
 
This undermines what Mr S says he was told by the locksmith  that there was either a fault 
with the key or the lock. The actions of the patrolman show that the key blade was the 
correct one for the car and did work, as did the locking system. So, on balance, Im satisfied 
there wasnt an inherent fault with either the key or the lock. Instead, Im satisfied the issue 
arose due to the length of time the car had been standing unused. I fully accept that, like many of us, Mr Ss use of the car was affected by the global pandemic. But this wasnt 
LeasePlans fault, nor was it under an obligation to fix the car for him.
 
I can see Mr S told LeasePlan that before this issue arose, hed never used the manual key 
blade. Given hed had the car nearly two years, I think its understandable the manual lock 
was somewhat stiff and, as the patrolman stated, extra pressure was needed to turn the 
lock. 
I can also see Mr S didnt choose LeasePlans maintenance package. This meant, as clearly 
stated in his hire agreement, he was responsible for taking reasonable care of the car and 
keeping it in good condition at all times. While, as above, I can totally understand why Mr S 
hadnt used the car for a number of months, the responsibility for resolving what turned out 
to be a maintenance issue, rested with him, not LeasePlan. So when it initially told him he 
should contact his local manufacturers dealership for assistance, Im satisfied this was fair 
and reasonable.
 
I can see there were delays with LeasePlan responding to Mr S. It accepted this and 
apologised to him. LeasePlan also arranged for the breakdown recovery service to look at 
Mr Ss car when, as outlined above, the responsibility for this lay with him. I can also see 
LeasePlan hasnt charged Mr S anything for arranging this. Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable.
 
Once Mr S had the problem unlocking his car, he was always able to arrange, at his own 
expense, for a mechanic or other professional to fix it. But it seems he was reluctant to do so 
as hed been told there was a fault that was present before hed got the car. As above, on 
balance, Im satisfied there was no such fault.
 
LeasePlan collected the car around 2 weeks before the hire agreement was due to end. I 
can see Mr S thinks LeasePlan should give him a refund for this. He told us he had to 
request early termination as he had no choice but to arrange for a suitable car while 
LeasePlan was doing nothing. I dont agree. As above, Mr S was responsible for the 
maintenance of the car, and the problem was ultimately due to maintenance.
 
But LeasePlan has told me that a credit note for £81.70 was issued in November 2020 
against Mr Ss final monthly rental payment invoice. This is around half the monthly 
payment. Again, Im satisfied LeasePlan has acted fairly and reasonably by doing this. Im 
not asking it to do anything further in respect of this.
 
Ill now turn to the charges for damage that LeasePlan is asking Mr S to pay. The hire 
agreement signed by him stated he would keep the car in good and substantial repair and 
condition at all times making good all damages to it whether or not the damage was his fault.
Similar to the above, when reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry 
guidance. Here, that includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade 
body, the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). Again, while I take this into 
account, I also need to take into consideration whats fair and reasonable in the situation 
here. 
The damage LeasePlan has invoiced Mr S for relates to a scuffed wheel rim, paint chips to 
the front bumper and a scratches to a rear panel. Ive looked at the inspection report that 
was completed when the car was collected including photos of the damage listed above. 
Having done so Im satisfied all the items of damage falls outside the BVRLA guidelines of 
what is fair wear and tear. I also think the damage falls outside what a reasonable person 
would expect to see on a car of this age and mileage. So Im satisfied its fair and reasonable 
for LeasePlan to charge for these items.In summary, Im satisfied from the available evidence that, on balance, there wasnt a fault 
with the car LeasePlan supplied to Mr S. The responsibility to fix the issue rested with him, 
not LeasePlan. I accept there was a delay with LeasePlan responding to Mr S. But I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably by apologising and arranging for a breakdown recovery service 
to fix the problem at no cost to Mr S. LeasePlan also acted fairly and reasonably by reducing 
Mr Ss final rental payment by £81.70. Finally, as Ive just said, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for LeasePlan to ask Mr S to pay for the damage listed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman