DRN-3922460
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint relates to a Mortgage Current Account (MCA) they have with 
Barclays. They consider the variable interest rate applied to the overdraft attached to the 
MCA is too high and exploitative, and theyre unhappy that theyve been declined a further 
advance on their mortgage, which would allow them to clear the MCA overdraft balance and 
pay less interest. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Barclays and a linked MCA. The MCA has an 
overdraft facility. There is a rebalancing facility between the overdraft limit and the amount 
owed on the mortgage. This means that as capital is paid off the mortgage, the overdraft 
limit on the increases by the same amount.  
A customer doesnt have to use the overdraft facility and can use the MCA in credit as a 
normal bank account. However, it they do, they are charged interest on the amount owed, as 
is usual with an overdraft. The interest rate is currently charged at Bank of England Base 
Rate plus 4.49%. If a customer has chosen to use the overdraft, they can make repayments 
whenever they wish and of any amount they choose. 
Mr and Mrs C used the overdraft facility and by 2021 the balance was over £70,000. 
Mr C started the process of applying for further borrowing on his and Mrs Cs mortgage 
account in October 2021, but the application failed at decision in principle (DIP) stage. This 
was because Mr C wanted the further borrowing on an interest-only basis, for which there 
was a minimum net income requirement, which they didnt meet. Mr C was told that the 
application could be submitted on a repayment basis. Mr C said that he believed that such 
an application would be declined, but it was explained that as an existing customer, the 
application would be reviewed individually by an underwriter to see if it could be approved. 
However, Mr C said he didnt consider taking the borrowing on a repayment basis was viable 
and the application didnt proceed. 
Mr C subsequently complained to Barclays about the interest rate being charged on the 
MCA and the DIP to reject the further advance application.
Barclays responded to the complaint in a letter dated 11 January 2022. It didnt uphold the 
complaint, and confirmed that there were no fixed rate products for the MCA. It also said that 
the application for further borrowing on the mortgage had failed on affordability grounds.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in March 2022.  Around the same time a further application to Barclays 
for further borrowing on an interest-only basis was made. This application was also declined 
at an early stage. 
When we informed Barclays of the complaint, it reviewed the case. It explained that Mr C 
should have been provided with further information following the application being declined 
in March 2022 and as such, it wanted to offer £150 compensation for this omission. It also 
asked us to inform Mr and Mrs C that if they wished to apply to increase their borrowing 
again, they could do so direct or via their broker.
Our investigator explained Barclays offer to Mr C. Mr C said that he thought the £150 was 
little short of derisory. He also commented that if they had been given the borrowing when 
theyd asked for it, they would have been able to arrange it with a lower interest rate, as 
there had been three increases in Bank of England base rate since then.
Further correspondence was exchanged, and our investigator set out what he considered 
should happen from that point. He confirmed that if Mr C reapplied for the further borrowing 
at that time, and the application was accepted, Barclays should attach the five-year interest 
rate product Mr and Mrs C could have had at the time of the original enquiry. Any difference 
in the amount of interest charged over the period since the MCA balance would have been 
repaid, should be refunded. In addition, Barclays should increase the compensation payment 
for the upset and inconvenience cause to £200.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It provided new evidence in the form of 
the call recordings of the interviews Mr C had with its adviser in 2021. Based on the content 
of the calls, Barclays considered that Mr C had been given options and so the redress was 
not fair. In addition, it confirmed that Mr and Mrs C had put in a new application to increase 
their borrowing on an interest-only basis, but it had been declined, again because Mr Cs 
income didnt meet the minimum threshold for interest-only borrowing. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again in light of the new information and 
clarifications from Barclays. He concluded that Barclays had applied its lending criteria fairly 
in 2021, so he didnt propose to uphold the complaint. It was also confirmed that Barclays 
offer of £150 in relation to the March 2022 application was still available to Mr and Mrs C if 
they wished to accept it.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for review.
I requested some further information from Barclays. It provided its lending criteria from the 
time of both applications. This confirmed what Mr C had been told by Barclays in 2021  that 
if he and Mrs C wanted all or part of the further borrowing on a repayment basis, he would 
need to have a gross income of at least £75,000, or he and Mrs C would need a gross joint 
income of at least £100,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer asks a lender for new borrowing arrangements, it is entitled to assess 
whether those new arrangements fit with its then current appetite for risk, i.e. it is entitled to 
apply its then current lending criteria. A lender is entitled to decide what that appetite for risk 
is and to change it from time to time  that is a matter of its commercial discretion and not 
something we would interfere with as long as it was being applied fairly to all its customers in 
similar positions. So while it would be inappropriate for a lender to withdraw existing 
arrangements because they dont fit current lending criteria, it is reasonable for it as a 
starting position to assess any new applications under the current lending criteria.
In this case, the MCA overdraft was on an interest-only basis and secured on the mortgaged 
property. Barclays was happy for Mr and Mrs C to continue to have this borrowing on the 
existing basis. However, it was not willing to rearrange the borrowing and continue it on an 
interest-only basis as Mr and Mrs Cs income didnt meet the current lending criteria. 
Barclays gave the option of looking into consolidating the overdraft into the mortgage on a 
repayment basis, but Mr C declined that option. This was not an unreasonable position for 
Barclays to take in the particular circumstances of this case.During the conversations with Barclays in 2021 Mr C highlighted that the changed borrowing 
arrangements he wanted would not represent any additional risk to Barclays, because the 
overdraft debt already existed and was secured on his and Mrs Cs property. That may be 
the case, but just because something fell within Barclays historic lending criteria, it doesnt 
mean that it always will and clearly it did not in this case. While there will be some situations, 
such as where forbearance arrangements should be put in place due to financial difficulties, 
that I would expect Barclays to consider setting aside its current lending criteria, but this is 
not such a case. As Mr C confirmed to Barclays, he was able to repay the overdraft in 2021, 
but chose not to in order to benefit from returns that would potentially be greater than the 
interest saved on the overdraft.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C wanted to change their borrowing arrangements in 2021 
in order to pay less in interest, but I cant find that Barclays acted inappropriately when it 
declined to progress the application.
As for the interest rate payable on the overdraft, as Barclays explained, it doesnt provide 
fixed interest rates for this facility or any of its other overdrafts. While Mr and Mrs C consider 
that the interest rate is exploitative, in general interest rates on overdrafts are higher than 
they would be on a mortgage or personal loan to reflect the flexible nature of the facility and 
the risks that it represents to a lender. I would also comment that Mr and Mrs C would have 
had access to information about what the interest rate charged on the overdraft was when 
they decided to use the facility  if they had thought the rate was too high, they didnt have to 
use the facility.
As our investigator has highlighted, the offer Barclays made in respect to the lack of 
information provided at the time of the second application in March 2022 is still available to 
Mr and Mrs C if they wish to accept it. It would seem to be an appropriate amount in the 
circumstances, given the information Mr C was given in 2021 about reapplying.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman