DRN-3419671
The complaint
Mr Y complains about a loan provided to him by Oakbrook Finance limited, (Likely Loans) 
which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr Y with a loan of £2000 on 20 February 2018. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 Monthly instalments of £131.05. If Mr Y made each payment when it was 
due, hed pay £3145.20 in total. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mr Y before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of his annual income and his residential status. It says it also
checked Mr Ys credit file. It has shared what it says is a high-level overview of the
customers financial status upon application but adds that this represents just a small
proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has shared I can see it looked at the
number of accounts Mr Y had, his credit balance, credit score and calculated a debt to
income ratio. From these checks combined Likely Loans concluded Mr Y had enough
monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
It has also provided a more detailed credit file with a search date of 25 November 2020 (so 
over 2 years after the loan application). It has explained that it would have extracted detailed 
data like this from Mr Ys credit file at the time of the application, but it does not store this. 
However, it says this report shows the status of Mr Ys credit commitments that it would have 
seen at the time of the lending.
Mr Y said his annual income was £29,000 and the loan purpose was captured as other. The 
high-level overview from Likely Loans credit check shows that Mr Y had total debts of 
£12,800.
The lender says his credit file shows he was meeting all his credit commitments at the
time and it can approximate that he had monthly credit commitments of £547.45. Given
the November 2020 search date of the credit file and the fact it did not record the full data it
extracted as part of its credit check, I cant know whether Likely Loans knew this at the
time of the application.
However, that aside, based on the above, I dont think Likely Loans affordability checks
were proportionate. Mr Y was applying for a loan over a term of 24 months and although the 
monthly repayment was low as a percentage of his income, Likely Loans hasnt shown it 
made any kind of estimate about what his total monthly expenditure might be. Given it was 
deciding if Mr Y could sustainably afford to repay a loan over a two-year period, I think it 
needed to understand this. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely 
have shown.
Mr Y has recently provided some bank statements. Im not suggesting here that obtaining 
bank statements is the sort of check that Likely Loans should have done. But I think 
looking in particular at his bank statements would give me the best picture of what the 
lender should have seen.
I have looked through the statements. I can see that there were no returned direct debits or 
unauthorised borrowing fees and I can see the account was well managed over the 3-month 
period of December 2017-February 2018 that the statements covered. I can see that there 
were several transactions on Mr Ys account for non-essential spend. But there is nothing to 
suggest to me that he was at this stage dependent on credit, that he couldnt afford the loan 
repayment or that he was having problems managing his finances. I havent seen anything 
within the bank statements provided by Mr Y that would suggest to me that further checks 
would make the loan unaffordable. So, I dont currently think Likely Loans irresponsibly 
agreed to this loan.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr Y did not respond. Likely Loans responded and said it had 
received the provisional decision. It did not add any further comments though.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Likely Loans has not made any new points for me to respond to and Mr Y has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ys 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman