DRN-3853990
The complaint
Mr P complains about a claim NewDay Ltd (NewDay) handled for him in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card.
What happened
Mr P bought an annual membership to a gym (the supplier) in 2019 using his credit card. 
However, because of the restrictions put in place as a result of the global Covid-19 
pandemic the gym closed from March 2020 and Mr P was unable to attend until late July 
2020. Mr P says that when the gym opened up again there were restrictions on classes and 
opening times which were unacceptable to him. In summary, he says the membership was 
no longer fit for purpose and flexible like he signed up for (with 24/7 access). He says the 
gym has broken its contract with him and he wants a refund.
Mr P was unable to get a refund from the gym so he approached NewDay for help. It 
considered his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it 
concluded the supplier did not breach its contract with Mr P. So it wouldnt pay him the 
refund he wanted.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service about the outcome of the claim. He also said that 
NewDays handling of the claim was poor. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he concluded there was no breach of contract by the supplier as it did not promise 
features like 24/7 access in the contract. He noted that Mr P was offered an extended 
membership to early 2022 to make up for the time out  which he appeared to have used 
several times.
Mr P disagrees. He says the gym is advertised as 24/7 access and that the operating model 
changed after lockdown which is a fundamental breach of contract even with the extension 
of membership.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr P feels he has been treated unfairly by the supplier due to circumstances out of 
his control. I am sorry to hear about how he feels as a result of the events triggered by the 
global pandemic. However, it is important that I emphasise why NewDay is involved here. It 
is not the supplier of the membership service so any potential liability it has for the 
agreement between Mr P and the supplier is strictly limited to the specific card protections 
which are available. In this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
So in order to decide what is fair and reasonable for NewDay to do as a third party to the 
agreement between Mr P and the supplier, I have to take into account what the chargeback 
rules say, and what the law says about Section 75.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way NewDay are able to attempt to claim a refund for Mr P. However, this 
dispute method is limited to the particular rules set by the relevant chargeback scheme. I 
have carefully considered the rules of the scheme governing Mr Ps card, alongside any 
specific guidance issued from the scheme holder in light of the pandemic.
From what I understand NewDay did not raise a chargeback. However, in the circumstances 
I dont think this is unreasonable because under the relevant code relating to the interruption 
of ongoing services it appears NewDay had 120 calendar days to raise the claim from when 
Mr P became aware the service had ceased . I understand the gym closed on 20 March 
2020 but Mr P did not raise the claim with NewDay until 6 August 2020 which means the 
claim was out of time.
Even if the chargeback claim had not been out of time I think it is difficult for me to say that it 
would likely have succeeded in any event. From what I have seen I think it likely the supplier 
would have defended the dispute on the basis that Mr P was offered and used a reasonable 
alternative. I note the card scheme in their pandemic guidance specifically state that where a 
customer accepts a reasonable alternative - even if they change their mind later  they will 
not have a chargeback right for the non-provision of the service. I acknowledge that Mr P 
argues he didnt accept this extension as a resolution to the interruption to the membership 
and his claim for a refund. But had this matter eventually reached arbitration I am unable to 
reasonably conclude the card scheme would likely have interpreted its limited rules and 
additional guidance in such a way as to award Mr P a refund here.
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr P in certain circumstances to make a claim against NewDay for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier paid using the credit card. Certain 
technical criteria need to be met in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid  in this case I am 
satisfied those criteria are met.
The focus of this complaint has been whether the supplier is in breach of contract. But for the 
sake of completeness I dont consider there to have been a misrepresentation by the 
supplier. I dont see evidence that it made false claims when the contract was entered into 
which caused Mr P to buy the membership when he otherwise would not have done I also 
think this would be particularly difficult to conclude considering the evolving and unexpected 
events of the pandemic later on. So I move on to now consider breach of contract.
Firstly, based on the information Mr P has provided I dont disagree with him that despite the 
written terms of the contract not being specific about 24/7 access he was likely sold the 
membership based on advertising around this feature. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
things said or shown to him about a service that he has relied on can be implied into the 
contract even if they are not specifically written into it. So I do think the contract was likely 
originally entered into based on 24/7 access.
What occurred after the closure of the gym resulting from the pandemic appears to be an 
effort by the gym to continue to serve customers affected by extending memberships  even 
if that meant these would continue with modified opening hours and class times. In doing so 
the service was different to what Mr P signed up to.
One way of looking at what happened is the supplier offered and Mr P accepted a variation 
of the contract as a way of resolving the problem with its performance as presented by the government restrictions put in place due to the global pandemic. I think whether the parties 
came to a mutual agreement here is debatable as although Mr P is said to have used the 
extended membership and is said to have signed a new agreement  there is 
communication indicating that he is not happy with the new arrangements at the gym. He 
also indicates he didnt sign a new agreement. But whether he did or didnt accept the 
proposal (and whether the supplier was truly intending to vary the original contract or simply 
offer a goodwill gesture) it doesnt result in a breach of the original terms of the contract paid 
for using the credit card. 
If Mr P is seen to have accepted the variation it follows there is no breach. However, even if I 
were to accept that Mr P did not mutually agree to a contract variation here I dont think that 
leaves me in a position to conclude the supplier is in breach of contract in any event. I say 
this because the supplier was practically prevented from opening the gym specifically due to 
government restrictions put in place as a result of the global pandemic. I note there is 
nothing in the agreement for sale or implied into the agreement by law that persuades me 
that in this particular situation Mr P would contractually be entitled to a refund. And 
essentially, the supplier was unable to provide the service not because of a breach of 
contract, but as a likely result of the contract being frustrated. When a contract is frustrated it 
effectively comes to an end.
So while Mr P might have a certain civil remedy against the supplier directly (which he can 
get independent legal advice on if he wishes) in these particular circumstances I am unable 
to reasonably conclude there is a breach of contract which NewDay is liable for via its 
obligations under Section 75. Therefore, I do not consider it fair and reasonable to direct 
NewDay to pay Mr P a refund of his membership fees.
I know Mr P is likely to be unhappy with this outcome. However, it is important to underline 
the particular role NewDay has  which is limited by the chargeback scheme and the law of 
Section 75.
It is also worth noting that even if I were persuaded there had been some kind of breach of 
contract here (which I am not) it is unlikely I would conclude that Mr P is fairly entitled to the 
full refund of his membership fees he seeks (due to the use he had of the membership to 
date) in any event.
Mr P has also mentioned the customer service of NewDay and has indicated it was 
unresponsive. From what I can see NewDays customer service was not exceptionally quick 
 but it appeared to respond to his initial claim (made in early August 2020) reasonably 
promptly (by the end of September 2020). Mr P also says NewDay prematurely closed his 
claim  but  it appears that this was a result of some confusion and rectified quickly. I can 
also see that when Mr P demonstrated that he was unhappy with the claim outcome 
NewDay issued a final response letter fairly promptly in October 2020. Overall, I dont think 
the customer service I have seen from NewDay here would fairly warrant compensation.
My provisional decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties for their responses. NewDay said it had nothing further to add. However, 
Mr P disagreed with the decision. In summary, he says:
He did not use the gym several times and he was misled by the gym owner as he 
thought he was signing for a new security pass not a whole new contract; andIt is irrelevant that the gym extended the membership  the way it operated no longer 
worked for him and the changes which limited the facilities represents a breach of 
contract under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and a full refund becomes due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made it quite clear he disputes ever using the gym once it re-opened after the 
lockdown. And that he signed a contract under false pretences. However, as I have already 
said in my provisional findings - even if I were to accept that Mr P didnt accept a variation of 
contract as a way of resolving things I am still not able to fairly conclude there is a breach of 
contract which NewDay is responsible for (via Section 75) in any event or that a chargeback 
would likely have succeeded. 
My provisional findings on chargeback remain the same. Regarding chargeback I noted that 
the claim was out of time  but in any event I didnt think it would likely succeed 
notwithstanding the dispute about whether Mr P did in fact accept the extension of 
membership:
I acknowledge that Mr P argues he didnt accept this extension as a resolution to the 
interruption to the membership and his claim for a refund. But had this matter eventually 
reached arbitration I am unable to reasonably conclude the card scheme would likely have 
interpreted its limited rules and additional guidance in such a way as to award Mr P a refund 
here.
Regarding Section 75 my key findings remain the same. I refer back to the following 
passage in my provisional decision in particular:
even if I were to accept that Mr P did not mutually agree to a contract variation here I dont 
think that leaves me in a position to conclude the supplier is in breach of contract in any 
event. I say this because the supplier was practically prevented from opening the gym 
specifically due to government restrictions put in place as a result of the global pandemic. I 
note there is nothing in the agreement for sale or implied into the agreement by law that 
persuades me that in this particular situation Mr P would contractually be entitled to a refund. 
And essentially, the supplier was unable to provide the service not because of a breach of 
contract, but as a likely result of the contract being frustrated. When a contract is frustrated it 
effectively comes to an end.
So ultimately, the inability of the gym to provide the service Mr P signed up for was not in my 
view as the result of a breach of contract. And for completeness - I know Mr P has referred 
to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (which I have already considered). However, in light of 
what occurred here when the gym was unable to provide the service due to the government 
restrictions specifically down to the global pandemic, I dont think this legislation implies 
terms that would cover what has happened in this particular situation. 
I think it also useful to specifically refer back to what I said in my provisional decision as 
follows:
So while Mr P might have a certain civil remedy against the supplier directly (which he can 
get independent legal advice on if he wishes) in these particular circumstances I am unable 
to reasonably conclude there is a breach of contract which NewDay is liable for via its obligations under Section 75. Therefore, I do not consider it fair and reasonable to direct 
NewDay to pay Mr P a refund of his membership fees.
So while I thank Mr P for his further submissions on the matter they do not change the key 
finding of my provisional decision (as incorporated above) which is there is no breach of 
contract that NewDay is fairly liable for via Section 75 and that it didnt make a mistake 
regarding the chargeback that deprived Mr P of a refund. I also have not seen anything that 
would change my provisional findings on the customer service of NewDay. I still consider my 
decision on all these issues to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman