DRN-4286647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about their property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited 
because it declined their claim for storm damage to the roof of their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were at home on 26 April 2022 when they heard a loud noise, they 
investigated only to find all the hip tiles which had covered the join in their roof (with their 
neighbours property) had slipped down the roof and fallen to the single storey flat roof 
below. The flat roof was also damaged. Whilst investigating Mr and Mrs W also noted 
another hip tile from the rear corner of their home was missing  this was later found by a 
builder towards the front of the flat roof of the two-storey side extension to the home. But the 
flat roof hadnt been damaged. A claim was made to Aviva.
Aviva declined the claim as there had been no storm in April 2022. But Mr and Mrs W 
pointed to a storm in February 2022. They felt this could have been the only thing to cause 
the corner hip tile to be ripped from its seating and deposited at the front of the flat roof. But 
they also thought the hip tiles on the roof join (on the rear roof face) had likely been 
dislodged in this storm too, only to have fallen at this later date. Aviva considered their claim 
further but noting their builder intended to replace the tiles on the join with a different system, 
felt this indicated the previous one had likely failed or been inadequate. It also felt it was 
difficult to accept that the tiles had remained in place for so long if they were damaged by the 
storm. So it declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They said they wanted 
their repair costs reimbursing. 
Our Investigator felt Mr and Mrs Ws builders evidence that storm had caused the damage, 
was more persuasive than Avivas. So she felt it should consider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Aviva said it disagreed with that outcome. It indicated it was satisfied that the point the tiles 
fell meant the storm, some two months earlier, likely couldnt have been the cause. The 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans review.
I felt the complaint should be upheld. I took into account Mr and Mrs Ws invoice for repairs 
which was shared with Aviva. I felt Aviva should be recording two claims and reimbursing the 
invoice cost less two excess sums, but plus interest, to Mr and Mrs W. I issued a provisional 
decision to share my view with both parties.
Aviva did not reply to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs W said they agreed with it and 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My key provisional findings were:
I intend to make Aviva pay the invoice, so if it has any particular concerns about it, it should 
flag those straightaway so I can consider them. But Mr and Mrs W should be aware that my 
findings are not limited to a claim for storm. Rather I think this damage needs to be covered 
by Aviva as one claim for storm and one for accidental damage. That will mean two claims 
will be logged and two policy excesses will be deducted from the total of the repair invoice. 
There was definitely a storm in the area of Mr and Mrs Ws property in February 2022. But 
not in April 2022. I think tiles falling from a roof is definitely damage typically caused by a 
storm.
I am satisfied that the corner hip tile was likely damaged by the February storm and, likely 
because of where it landed, it just wasnt noticed until April 2022. The position the tile had 
been in on the roof and where it landed can only be logically explained by strong storm 
winds  the like of which occurred in February 2022. And I note Aviva hasnt commented on 
this tile at all. So I think its fair to say that replacing it, should be covered under storm. 
With that tile having been subject to storm damage Im also prepared to consider that the 
bottom tile, which holds all of the other hip tiles in place, all behind a metal stopper 
embedded in mortar, could have been dislodged somewhat by the storm too. However, with 
it being wedged by the weight of the tiles above it and the metal stopper in front of it, it didnt 
actually fall at that time. And for two months this tile and the rest behind it remained in place. 
So I do think Aviva has a point when it said the tiles falling in April 2022 cant fairly and 
reasonably be said to have been damaged by the storm which occurred two months earlier  
the passage of time alone reasonably precludes that. 
Importantly though, Mr and Mr Ws policy includes cover for accidental damage. And I think 
the slipped row of hip tiles and the damage to the single storey roof below can be covered in 
that respect. The policy defines accidental damage as sudden, unexpected and physical 
damage. I think its clear that this situation fits that definition. The policy also says it has to 
be from an external identifiable source and not on purpose. Theres nothing to make me 
think this happened on purpose. 
The external identifiable source bears more comment. Clearly the tiles hitting the flat roof 
would meet that part of the definition. Aviva though might argue that we simply dont really 
know how the tiles came to fall from the roof. But, on this occasion, I reasonably bear in 
mind that the main fixing point for the line of tiles  the metal stopper embedded in mortar  
remains in place and in good condition. Verified by Avivas loss adjuster. Something, 
although it isnt clear what, happened to cause the tiles to be dislodged from that stopping 
point such they could all slide down the roof and on to the flat roof below. And Mr and Mrs W 
cant reasonably watch their roof the whole time. This, I think, is a situation where it would be 
unfair to say the claim reasonably fails just because it isnt known for sure what the external 
force was which caused the tiles to fall. Particularly as that external force might only needed 
to have been the last breath of wind necessary to finally dislodge the bottom tile from behind 
the stopper. 
I note Avivas concern that a different system in replacement might suggest these tiles had 
been failing over time. But Im not convinced by that assumption. There are many reasons 
why a contractor might suggest implementing something else. And something different 
doesnt necessarily mean betterment occurs or a greater cost will be incurred.  I think, on balance, Aviva reasonably needs to settle with Mr and Mrs W for repair of this 
damage. The repair cost detailed in Mr and Mrs Ws invoice is £1,800 with no VAT detailed. 
The invoice only details replacing the hip tiles  although Mr and Mrs W confirmed that the 
corner tile and the flat roof were fixed by that contractor within that price. Theyve explained 
that, once inspected one of the flat roofs wasnt actually damaged. Its not ideal that the 
invoice doesnt detail all the work, but I dont think the cost detailed is unreasonable. Two 
excesses, as Ive explained, can be deducted from this sum. Ill require Aviva to add 
interest*. And the sum paid to Mr and Mrs W can be split to record half each against the 
storm and AD claims. Based on the limited detail available I think that is a fair way to resolve 
this matter. And I wont award compensation. Mr and Mrs W have clearly had to challenge 
Aviva  but they were able to get the work done and I dont think theyve been caused too 
much distress and inconvenience.
As Aviva did not reply and Mr and Mrs W have accepted my provisional decision, Ive no 
need to add to or change my findings. My provisional findings are now those of this, my final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs W £1,500 being their invoice cost for repairs less two 
policy excesses of £150 each, plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is made. 
Aviva can record two claims against the policy (one for storm and one for AD) and split the 
settlement amount paid equally between each.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman