DRN-1773454
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Staffordshire Building 
Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business 
as Nationwide in this decision, to keep things simple.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. Nationwide hasnt 
been able to confirm how the sale took place, but Mr and Mrs S say they applied for the 
mortgage and PPI at a meeting with Nationwide at one of its branches. The policy covered 
Mr S. It cost £12.30 per month when the policy started, and would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £300 if Mr S had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told they had to take out the PPI in order to get the 
mortgage.
 
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application. It includes a section on 
household insurance, and explains that it would be a condition of the loan that the 
property be insured for its full reinstatement cost. Various options for the type of 
cover are set out, and one of the boxes is ticked to indicate Mr and Mrs Ss choice. 
The next section is headed Mortgage Payment Protection (PPI). In contrast to the 
section on household insurance, theres no mention of PPI being a condition of the 
loan. Theres a brief description of the purpose of the cover, and it says If you wish 
to obtain this protection, please state in the place indicted the percentage of the total 
monthly benefit in respect of which each applicant seeking cover is to be insured. 
The whole of the section on PPI was crossed through on Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
application.
 Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer is dated around three weeks after they signed their 
mortgage application. It sets out some special conditions that applied to Mr and Mrs 
Ss offer, but theres no mention of PPI. Nationwides records show that the mortgage 
and PPI started just under three weeks after the mortgage offer was issued.
 
I think it was clear from the way the PPI was referred to in the mortgage application 
form that the cover was optional. And the fact that the section was crossed out on Mr 
and Mrs Ss application suggests to me that they realised that it was optional and had 
initially decided not to take it. But I think its more likely than not that sometime in the 
period between completing their mortgage application and completing their property 
purchase, Mr and Mrs S decided to take out PPI.
 
Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs S would have had to set up a separate direct 
debit to the insurer for the PPI. The monthly premiums would have shown on their 
bank statements separately from their monthly mortgage payments. Given that I think 
theyd have been aware at the time that the PPI was optional, I think its likely that 
theyd have contacted Nationwide to query the payments if they hadnt chosen to 
take the cover. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that they did so. Taking everything 
into account, I think Mr and Mrs S decided to take the PPI, knowing that they had a 
choice. But I can understand how they may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
 
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide recommended the PPI to them. Nationwide says no 
recommendation was made. If Nationwide did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs 
S, it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But even if a 
recommendation was made, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time.
 
Mr and Mrs S have told us they cant remember whether Mr S would have been 
entitled to any pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. If hed made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
paid a monthly benefit of £300 per month for up to 12 months. Whats more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mr S received from his employer. So Mr 
and Mrs S could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Ss property, and the consequences of falling 
behind with their monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs 
S.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think they chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looks as if they wanted this type of cover, even if theyve understandably 
forgotten that now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, Mr S was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions 
about unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
 The PPI was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and 
Mrs S couldnt afford it. And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they 
decided they no longer needed the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs S would have 
made a different decision about taking the PPI out even if better information about 
the policy. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
 
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about their 
mortgage statements and other documentation having been sent to the wrong address. But 
this doesnt change my view that Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the policy, and that it was 
suitable for them. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S have told us that Mr S has, in fact, been made redundant 
twice since taking out the policy and hasnt claimed on either occasion. But Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs S knew that theyd taken out the policy when they took out the mortgage in 
1996. And if Mr S didnt claim when he could have done, that doesnt make me think the 
policy was mis-sold in the first place. It might be helpful if I explain that Mr S would only have 
been able to make an unemployment claim on the policy after an initial period of at least 30 
days. And I can see that he told Nationwide that each time he was made redundant, he 
found another job straight away. So its unlikely hed have been able to claim under the PPI. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Mr and Mrs S have pointed out theyve never claimed 
on the policy after more than 20 years. But insurance is designed to protect people against 
unexpected events. Mr and Mrs S couldnt have known when they took the PPI out that they 
wouldnt need to claim. So this doesnt change my conclusion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
S. 
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.Juliet Collins
Ombudsman