DRN-3329228
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont remove a 
default recorded on her credit file.
What happened
Miss A couldnt meet the repayments on her credit card account because she was suffering 
from a medical condition which involved periods of hospitalisation and aftercare. She says 
she understood that she had reached an agreement with Barclaycard whereby her account 
would be placed on hold until she was well enough to recommence payments. But when she 
called to make a payment, she found her account had been defaulted. 
Miss A subsequently repaid the outstanding balance. But as a default had been registered 
on her credit file Miss A complained to Barclaycard and asked for the default to be removed. 
She said she hadnt received the default notice as she had moved in with her parents 
between hospital stays. 
Barclaycard responded to Miss As complaint. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It said Miss As account had been managed by its specialised services team (SST) since 
September 2018  when it first became aware of her health problems, until the balance had 
been repaid and the account closed. And that Miss A had been provided with appropriate 
support during this time. 
But it added that Miss A had not told it that she wasnt living at her usual address. So, letters 
advising her of the position of her account  including a default notice, had been sent to the 
address it held on file. And as Miss A didnt settle the account in line with the default notice 
the account was defaulted in May 2019 and the information recorded on her credit file. 
Miss A was unhappy with Barclaycards response and she asked our service to look into her 
complaint. She said Barclaycard hadnt taken into account that she was vulnerable and that 
it should have looked at her medical records before taking the action it did. Our investigator 
asked Miss A to provide her medical records so that Barclaycard could consider her 
complaint further. But Barclaycard didnt change its position. And, ultimately, the investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator was satisfied that Barclaycard had written to Miss A - at the address it held 
for her, to make her aware of the action it was taking. She pointed out that Barclaycard had 
issued a previous default notice to Miss A  at the same address, and that Miss A had taken 
the required action to stop the default from being registered. 
She said that it wasnt in dispute that Miss A had missed her contractual payments or that 
she hadnt told Barclaycard that she wasnt living at her normal address. So, she didnt think 
Barclaycard had done anything wrong. And she didnt ask Barclaycard to remove the default.
Miss A didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Miss As experience over the past few years with her health and her 
personal situation. And I understand that having a default on her credit file will impact on her 
ability to obtain further credit in the future. But while I sympathise with Miss As situation, for 
me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Barclaycard has done 
something wrong or acted unfairly in the actions it took. But I dont think it did. Ill explain 
why. 
When an account is in arrears, a lender can register a default, even if an arrangement to pay 
or some other temporary arrangement has been agreed. The Consumer Credit Act 1974 
says that a lender must issue a notice of default setting out what the consumer needs to do 
to bring the account back up to date and tell the customer the date by which this needs to 
happen. 
In this case, the arrears accrued because Miss A didnt make the contractual payments. 
Miss A says that she believed her account was on hold due to her medical condition. So, Ive 
looked at the notes the SST recorded on Miss As account (while it was under its control) 
and her account statements.
And I can see that in February 2018 Barclaycard initially agreed a 30 day hold on Miss As 
account (this included a suspension of interest and charges). And it refunded £24 in charges 
which had been incurred following non-payment of her previous minimum contractual 
repayment. And I can see that from 2018 until the account was repaid in full, a number of 
temporary holds were put in place. But Ive not seen anything that would make me think 
Barclaycard had agreed to suspend/put a hold on Miss As account indefinitely. 
I can see that during this period a default notice was issued in August 2018 and that Miss A 
was able to clear the arrears at this time to prevent the default from happening. As a default 
was issued at this time, I think Miss A was aware that Barclaycard hadnt agreed to suspend 
her account indefinitely.
After further temporary holds were put in place, another default notice was issued in         
April 2019. By this time Miss As account was several months in arrears. Ive looked at the 
system notes and letters that Barclaycard sent to Miss A about her account. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclaycard took reasonable steps to advise Miss A that her 
account was in arrears, and what she needed to do to bring the accounts up to date.
 
I appreciate Miss As situation was difficult and other things were likely to have been a 
priority at that time, but I cant reasonably conclude Barclaycard made a mistake regarding 
this issue. Barclaycard is required to send certain letters and that the only address it had for 
her was the one on file. I dont think Barclaycard can be held responsible if it hadnt been 
notified of a change of address.
While I appreciate that Miss A feels the default is unfair, from what shes said I dont think 
she was in a position to agree to a regular arrangement to pay and her financial difficulties 
dont appear to have been short term either. So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account when it did this. Im also satisfied that it acted in 
line with relevant legislation. Miss A has said that she thinks that Barclaycard shouldve treated her as a vulnerable 
customer and taken her medical records into account. But I think Barclaycard did treat her as 
a vulnerable customer. It provided breathing space to her while she was ill on several 
occasions. And while I understand Miss A has been through a difficult time, I dont think this 
means that Barclaycard acted unfairly in defaulting her account. A default means that 
charges and interest are suspended indefinitely ensuring that the outstanding debt doesnt 
increase because of non-payment.  
As the investigator has mentioned, Miss A can contact the credit reference agencies to ask 
for a notice of correction to be added to the record of the default. This is an opportunity to 
record the personal circumstances she faced leading up to the default. And other lenders 
may take this into consideration. Further information about a notice of correction can be 
found here:
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html
  
https://help.equifax.co.uk/EquifaxOnlineHelp/s/article/How-can-a-Notice-of-Correction-help-
me-manage-my-finances
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman