DRN-2699287
The complaint
Mr S, represented by Ms G, is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund money Mr S lost 
as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr S was looking for flights online. He contacted who he believed to be a genuine online 
travel agent and agreed to pay £765 for a flight ticket. As he was having difficulty making the 
payment using his mobile banking application, he visited a branch of Clydesdale for 
assistance. Branch staff helped him make the payment using his mobile application on 3 
September 2019.
Soon after the payment was made, the travel agent informed Mr S that, due to an error, it 
would need to be refunded, but this would take 14-16 days. Mr S visited the branch the 
following day (and on several further occasions) to discuss the payment. He says he was 
advised to wait for the promised refund, but this never arrived. And, on 11 October 2019, 
after hed been unable to reach the fraudster, he reported that hed been the victim of a 
scam. Clydesdale contacted the bank which received the money the same day. The bank 
said Mr S money had already been spent by its account holder, so it couldnt be returned.
Mr S raised a complaint in November 2019, which Clydesdale responded to in March the 
following year. They said that as Mr S had made the payment himself, he was responsible 
for it. They did, however, offer Mr S £25 for the delay investigating the complaint and the 
service provided.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the payment that 
Mr S made wasnt particularly unusual and Clydesdale hadnt missed an opportunity to 
prevent the scam. Though she acknowledged Clydesdale might have raised a claim when 
Mr S visited the branch the day after making the payment, she was satisfied this wouldnt 
have made a difference to whether Mr S would have received his money back. She also felt 
the £25 compensation offered by Clydesdale was fair.
Mr S disagreed. He said that it wasnt fair he should lose out as hed done nothing wrong. He 
also said he hadnt received the £25. In addition, Ms G told us Mr S had been suffering from 
medical problems and was vulnerable.
Clydesdale said they werent aware of Mr S medical condition at the time, but agreed theyd 
pay the £25 offered.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr S, particularly in light of his recent health 
problems, and I can understand why he feels that he, as the innocent party, shouldnt lose 
out. But having thought very carefully about Clydesdales actions, I think it did act fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr S account. I also dont think any action by 
Clydesdale after the payment was made, could have led to it being returned.
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr S complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Clydesdale should 
reimburse him the £765 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr S when he made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr S has accepted that he authorised the payment himself. Because of this, Clydesdale had 
an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Clydesdale shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive reviewed Mr S statements, for the six months leading up to the scam, and can see that 
there was one payment larger in size than the payment in dispute in the six months before 
the fraud. There were also a number of payments of more than £100. And, the disputed 
payment didnt consume all of the funds in Mr S account  which might have been an 
indicator he was at risk of fraud. The payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt 
have given Clydesdale much cause for concern. So, for these reasons, I dont think the payment Mr S made would have stood out as being particularly unusual or suspicious 
compared to his normal account activity.
I do note that the branch assisted Mr S in making the payment, but I dont think this was a 
missed opportunity to prevent the scam. After all, Mr S says he simply wanted technical 
assistance making the payment. It doesnt appear there was (and nor would I have 
expected) any conversation around the purpose of the payment when, for the reasons 
already outlined, it wouldnt have appeared unusual. 
Overall I dont think Clydesdale acted unreasonably by not making further enquiries about 
the payment before processing it.
Ive considered whether Clydesdale ought to have done more to recover the payment that 
Mr S made. Mr S says he visited the bank the day after the transaction to see if the promised 
refund had been received. Its possible, though by no means certain, that branch staff might 
have recognised the possibility that Mr S had fallen victim to a scam at this point. But, the 
receiving bank has reported that the funds left the fraudsters account at 9:16am on 4 
September 2019. So, even if Mr S did go to the branch early on that day (assuming it was 
open) and the bank realised Mr S had been the victim of a scam (which, as I say, its by no 
means certain they should have) then there would have been a very short period of time 
(and perhaps no time at all) in order to contact the receiving bank and for Mr S funds to be 
secured. 
Thats an unlikely chain of events  so even if I accepted there was a failure in not 
recognising the scam at an earlier point, Im not persuaded this has caused Mr S any loss. 
Im glad to see Clydesdale have recognised they took longer than they ought to have done 
to respond to Mr S complaint but, as I dont think any delay or inaction by them caused his 
loss, I think the £25 compensation Clydesdale has already offered for poor service is fair and 
this should be paid to Mr S, if it hasnt already been paid.
I agree Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam and has done nothing wrong. But, for the 
reasons outlined, I cant fairly say Clydesdale should have done more to prevent his loss. 
So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to refund Mr S money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman