DRN-3854140
The complaint
Mr L complains Santander UK Plc irresponsibly provided him with two credit cards and limit 
increases which were unaffordable for him.
What happened
Santander approved Mr L with two credit cards in November 2010. Card ending 2025 had an 
initial limit of £3,000 and was increased once to £4,020 in March 2013. Card ending 4071 
had an initial limit of £3,000 and had two limit increases; to £4,100 in June 2014 and £5,600 
in December 2016. 
Mr L appears to have complained to Santander around March 2021. He said Santander 
hadnt lent responsibly; as had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would 
have identified these cards were unaffordable for him. Mr L brought his complaint to our 
service when Santander didnt uphold it.
Our investigator reviewed the details and didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. From the evidence 
he had been provided he said on the whole Mr L had been maintaining his Santander 
accounts well; in addition to the other credit accounts he held. He noted there was evidence 
of gambling on one of Mr Ls Santander cards, but that this was nearly two years after the 
latest increase across the cards; and that the gambling was confined to a month. He said 
this didnt appear to suggest a pattern of gambling; and that taking into account Mr Ls 
management of the accounts there were no identifiable concerns which he considered ought 
reasonably to have led Santander to complete further checks. He therefore concluded 
Santanders checks at each lending event were reasonable and its lending decisions across 
both cards were fair.  
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators outcome. In summary, he said the cards were 
unaffordable from the outset and this would have been clear to Santander had it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. In support of his argument Mr L referenced his credit 
report and his statements, suggesting it would have been clear from these that the lending 
was unaffordable. Mr L also said hed made many cash withdrawals across the years and 
was gambling, and that Santander should have identified he was vulnerable.
Our investigator reviewed this information but said it didnt change his opinion; he explained 
to Mr L that he had already considered this as part of his initial investigation. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive explained why below. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Santander provided Mr L these 
cards and limit increases required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks were in part to assess Mr Ls ability to afford to repay the cards sustainably 
without causing him financial harm.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. And it isnt sufficient for Santander to just 
complete proportionate checks  it must also consider the information it obtains from these 
checks to go on and make a fair lending decision.
Santander has said it has limited information covering the lending decisions because of the 
amount of time thats passed. It has said it cant evidence what checks would have been 
completed at the time of each lending event, but that these would have been in line with its 
lending policies at that time. 
Because of the amount of time that has passed since these lending decisions were made, I 
dont consider it unreasonable that Santander no longer has the information. The initial 
lending decisions were over ten years ago, and the last limit increase was made around six 
years ago. So, where the evidence is incomplete, Ive taken into account what I consider, on 
balance, was more likely to have happened and been available to Santander at that time.
The initial lending decisions to approve cards ending 2025 and 4071
Mr L was provided with two credit cards in November 2010, each with a limit of £3,000. 
I have no details of the checks Santander completed at these applications, however it has 
said the applications were completed in branch, although it cant provide the agreements. It 
has said it completed checks in line with its lending policy at the time. Given that this was the 
beginning of its lending relationship with Mr L, I consider there would have been a 
proportionately lower level of checks that Santander needed to have completed, bearing in 
mind the checks needed to be proportionate to the credit being applied for, as well as Mr Ls 
circumstances. 
Mr L has provided our service with a credit report dated September 2009 (around 14 months 
prior to this lending) as evidence of his financial situation. This is too much of a gap for me to 
safely accept as evidence of Mr Ls financial position in November 2010. But Ive noted the 
credit report doesnt appear to show any signs of financial distress. Mr L has a couple of 
other lines of credit, which all appear to be within agreed limits and being maintained well. 
Theres nothing to indicate from this credit report that Mr L was in financial difficulties and 
struggling to afford his existing lending.  
So, as the evidence from the initial lending decisions is limited, it therefore follows that in the 
absence of any further evidence around the time of the applications, I cant safely conclude 
Santander made unfair lending decisions when approving the two cards.
The limit increase on card ending 2025
Around March 2013 Mr Ls limit was increased to £4,020 on card ending 2025. At the time of the increase Santander had a reasonable period of account history and 
management to review. Ive seen Mr L had maintained this account well (and had also 
maintained card ending 4071 well). His balances on both accounts had kept within the 
£3,000 limits and were often cleared in full each month, or payments above the minimum 
amount were made. 
Mr L has indicated that he made a number of cash withdrawals on his cards which should 
have alerted Santander to possible financial difficulties; and led to it completing more 
detailed checks before increasing the limit. While I can see there were a number of cash 
withdrawals, these were generally spaced out across the years and there were large periods 
of months where no cash withdrawals were made. Across the near two and a half year 
period before this limit was increased, Mr L had made cash withdrawals totalling just over 
£1,000 on this card; and around £2,400 on card ending 4071. I dont consider over that 
period of time that these ought reasonably to have been of concern to Santander, or have 
led to it conducting further checks before approving the limit increase. As Ive said above, 
Mr L was maintaining the cards well and there were no signs that this limit increase would be 
unaffordable for him. 
So, as I dont consider there was anything from the information Santander would likely have 
considered which would reasonably have suggested further checks were required, I consider 
it completed reasonable checks and went on to make a fair lending decision when increasing 
Mr Ls credit limit on card ending 2025. 
The limit increases on card ending 4071
June 2014 to £4,100
Around June 2014 Santander increased Mr Ls limit on card ending 4071 to £4,100. 
Santander could see Mr L had been maintaining both cards well with balances being repaid 
in full or in excess of the minimum monthly payments across both cards. Santander could 
also see that Mr L hadnt used the card ending 2025 since around September 2013, 
suggesting no signs of financial difficulties as Mr L wasnt utilising all available credit. 
As detailed above, Mr L had taken a number of cash advances across both cards between 
2010 and this limit increase. As I found above, these were relatively intermittent; and 
between the limit increase on card ending 2025 and this limit increase of around 15 months, 
there had been a further five cash advances, totalling just over £200. I dont think this on its 
own ought to have led Santander to have completed more detailed checks, or concluded 
that the limit increase to £4,100 would be unaffordable to Mr L.
In the absence of any contrary information, I consider Santander completed proportionate 
checks. And, in the absence of any further evidence, I think it made a fair lending decision 
when approving the limit increase to £4,100 in June 2014.
December 2016 to £5,600
The last increase to this card was in December 2016, to £5,600. The credit report Mr L has 
provided us dated 2020 shows he had taken out additional borrowing between the increase 
in June 2014 and this increase in December 2016. 
Looking at the credit report it appears all of Mr Ls active accounts were being maintained 
well. The details from 2014 onwards show overdrafts in place on bank accounts, which on 
the whole appear to be unused or cleared each month. Mr Ls use of his available credit 
remains relatively low, with the majority of his credit card accounts well within their approved 
limits. There is evidence of further borrowing by way of two credit cards, a mail order account and two fixed term finance agreements; but again Mr L appears to have been 
maintaining these well, and the two fixed term finance agreements had been settled at the 
time of this increase. 
By the time Santander increased the limit to £5,600, Mr Ls use of cash withdrawals across 
his cards had increased significantly. Across 2015 Mr L had made around 15 cash 
withdrawals with a total value of around £3,000. And in 2016 up to the point of the limit 
increase, Mr L had made around 50 cash withdrawals with a total value of around £4,300 on 
this card. However, Mr L was still making monthly payments above the minimum amount 
and his balance at the end of each month broadly followed the same pattern as previous 
years. Mr L had also used another of his credit cards to withdraw around £4,200 by cash 
across 2016. I think the increased frequency and value of cash withdrawals should have 
been a trigger for Santander, and have led to it completing more detailed checks before 
providing the last limit increase. 
Santander hasnt been able to confirm what checks it completed at the time of this increase. 
So, in the absence of this information Ive considered what, on balance, I think Santander did 
consider, or more likely would have identified, from completing proportionate checks. 
Mr L has said he was gambling and had Santander completed further checks it would have 
identified this, and that he was a vulnerable consumer. I dont doubt Mr Ls testimony here, 
but from the information I have, I dont consider proportionate checks would reasonably have 
led Santander to have identified this. The transactions it had available to it on the cards up to 
the last limit increase didnt show any obvious signs of gambling. There is gambling in 2018 
but this was after the latest increase. And I consider had Santander asked more questions 
around the cash withdrawals, which I consider it ought to have done, I think its likely Mr L 
wouldnt have declared if these were used for gambling or not, as he would reasonably have 
known Santander wouldnt likely have provided further lending if the cash withdrawals were 
being used for this means. 
On the whole Mr Ls credit file shows he was maintaining all his existing lines of credit well. 
While there was an increase in his total available borrowing, Mr L wasnt using all available 
credit, in fact his usage appears to be around 25% of his total available limits. Mr Ls use of 
credit wasnt significant or what I would consider ought to have been of concern to 
Santander, and as his borrowing wasnt near his total available credit there was no 
suggestion that Mr L was showing signs of financial difficulty. The credit report appears to 
show across 2014, 2015 and 2016 that Mr L was largely clearing or reducing most revolving 
credit balances by more than the minimum payments, indicating he was able to manage his 
finances relatively well. In addition to this, theres no record that Mr L had made Santander 
aware of any potential or actual financial difficulties.
Therefore, without any contrary information, I cant be satisfied proportionate checks would 
have suggested the limit increase would be unaffordable for Mr L; and as such I consider 
Santander would reasonably have still reached the same decision to lend.  
As Im satisfied Santander made fair lending decisions at each of the lending events, it 
therefore follows I dont require it to take any further action in resolution of this complaint.
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but I can assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of the information that has been provided to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman