DRN-2432758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the administration of a secured loan they hold with 
Prestige Finance Limited. They are unhappy about the charges and interest added to the 
account and the amount they have been asked to pay each month in order to repay the debt 
by the end of the term. In addition, they have said Prestige told them all charges and legal 
action would be stopped while this service considered an earlier complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a secured loan they took in 2006. 
The loan was transferred from the original lender to Prestige in November 2015. At that point 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt paid everything they were due to under the loan agreement and had 
made some payments late. This meant that at the time of the transfer the balance was 
higher than it should have been at that point in the term.
Prestige objected to this service considering the complaint because it considered it was the 
same complaint that had previously been raised, only produced in a slightly different format. 
One of our investigators concluded that we shouldnt consider the majority of Mr and Mrs S 
complaint as we had already done so, and ombudsmen decisions had been issued on those 
issues. However, he thought we could look into two points about the amount of charges and 
interest that had accrued during the time their last complaint had been with us. He was also 
persuaded that the matter of Mr and Mrs S being told that charges and legal action would be 
stopped during the time the complaint was with this service should be considered further. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept his conclusion and asked that their complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
One of my ombudsman colleagues considered the detail of Mr and Mrs S complaint and 
agreed that most of the complaint issues they had raised had been considered by this 
service under previous complaints. As such, it was not appropriate for us to reconsider those 
matters. However, one complaint point was new  that relating to Mr and Mrs S saying that 
Prestige had told them it would stop all charges and legal action whilst their complaint with 
this service was considered. In light of this, the complaint was passed back to our 
investigator to consider that single point.
Prestige confirmed that it was not able to find any contact notes or calls detailing 
Mr and Mrs S being told interest and charges wouldnt continue to be added to the loan 
balance in line with the contract. However, only one charge was applied during the relevant 
period, which was due to Mr and Mrs S missing a mortgage payment. It confirmed legal 
action had been suspended during our complaint investigation. 
Mrs S confirmed that she had asked Prestige for recordings of all telephone calls shed had 
with it, in order to evidence what it had told her about the legal action, fees and charges 
being stopped during our investigation. However, Prestige hadnt provided any recordings 
that discussed this subject. She believed that Prestige was withholding the relevant call 
recordings.
Our investigator considered the matter of what Mr and Mrs S had been told about the 
ongoing administration of their loan whilst their complaints were with us. He wasnt 
persuaded Prestige told Mr and Mrs S that interest, fees or charges would be put on hold 
while a complaint was being considered by this service. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They alleged the investigator was 
biased in favour of Prestige because he hadnt made it provide the call recordings they 
believe were previously withheld. They reiterated they had been told the interest, fees and 
charges would be suspended during our investigation. They asked why, if that hadnt been 
the case, they would have taken the risk of referring their complaint to this service, as the 
debt would continue to build. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before commenting on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that I agree with my 
colleagues conclusions about what parts of this complaint I should be considering the merits 
of. As such, I will only be commenting on the matter of what Mr and Mrs S believe they were 
told about the suspension of legal action, interest, fees and charges for the duration of their 
last complaint with this service. 
Prestige put legal action on hold during the investigation into Mr and Mrs S complaint and 
this is quite normal practice. However, putting on hold the application of interest, charges 
and fees would not be. That would effectively mean a lender would put the entire mortgage 
into a suspended state and I have never seen or heard of that happening. I would also say 
that its not something this service would expect of a lender  the normal function of a 
mortgage contract would continue during the duration of our investigation. By this I mean the 
charging of interest, acceptance of payments from the customer and any other 
administration that was due to be done. While legal action would go on hold, that would not 
be considered normal functionality of a mortgage.
The only issue I need to consider is whether there is evidence that Prestige said it would 
stop charging interest, fees and charges during that period. I havent seen or heard any 
evidence it made that commitment. Mr and Mrs S acknowledge the telephone calls Prestige 
has located from the relevant period dont detail that discussion either. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S think Prestige restricted the evidence it provided about telephone 
calls and it has withheld the relevant calls. They have accused this service of being biased 
because we havent made Prestige provide call recordings that support Mr and Mrs S 
recollections. Whilst I can appreciate Mr and Mrs S position, I cant make a financial 
business produce evidence it says doesnt exist. We dont have the capacity to access and 
search a lenders systems. I also have no reason to believe the evidence Prestige has 
provided has been tampered with or altered in any way or is incomplete. 
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but I havent been persuaded that Prestige told 
them interest, charges and fees would be put on hold while this service investigated their 
complaint. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Iam required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman