DRN-3933056
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont allow it to transfer its 
overdraft to a new account following fraud.
What happened
It isnt in dispute that B was the victim of fraud. In February, March and April 2022 a 
fraudster was able to impersonate the director of B and change the account details. Just 
over £5,000 was withdrawn without Bs authorisation. A complaint about this was resolved 
with B and the money refunded. But this complaint is that B then wanted to change its 
account details as it was concerned these had been compromised. And that Bank of 
Scotland said it would need to apply for an existing overdraft facility again and which the 
director of B didnt think was reasonable.
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that as the fraud has been dealt with and the 
account is secure, a new BCA [Business Current Account] is not necessary. As a result, 
youd need to apply again for the overdraft if you choose to operate the business from a new 
BCA.  When it submitted its business file to this service it said that as this would represent 
borrowing on a new account we would need the customer to apply for any overdraft and 
that there is no provision to simply move existing borrowing from one account to another. It 
went on to say that as a responsible lender, we have a duty to ensure that any borrowing 
we grant has been properly applied for and that this application can be evidenced.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that it was a 
matter for Bank of Scotland to decide what processes to put in place and that as B had 
asked to operate a new BCA this was fair and reasonable.
B didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director explained that he didnt 
think it safe to carry on with the same business account. The fraudster still had Bs details 
and he wanted to take this further.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 29 December 2022. I set out below what I said.
Id asked through our investigator Bank of Scotland a number of questions about its position 
on this complaint and for documentation about its processes. I pointed out that it seemed to 
have given two explanations for not transferring the overdraft without a further application. 
One in the final response was that a new BCA wasnt necessary and so B would need to 
make a further application. And the other relating to its processes and the need to act 
responsibly. It didnt provide any documentation to support those processes.  
Id noted that Bs existing overdraft had been due for renewal on 12 September 2022 based 
on its bank statement. So, Id asked why this clearly recent review couldnt be taken into 
account but didnt get a response about that. Bank of Scotland was unable to provide a copy 
of Bs current overdraft facility letter but provided a template. It said no decision in principle 
about a new overdraft could be given. Id also asked what measures had been put in place 
to protect Bs existing account. Bank of Scotland said any blocks had now been removed so 
B could use it and it was waiting for B to attend the branch to update the mandate. It has 
added warning notes to the account.
I said I was going to make my assessment in two stages noting that I thought Bank of 
Scotland has now had an adequate opportunity to provide information.
The first question is about whether it is reasonable for B to want a new BCA. That is 
something Bank of Scotland took issue with in the final response letter. The factual 
background here is that B was clearly targeted for fraud. Bank of Scotland says that the 
instructions on the account from the fraudster had an exact copy of the directors signature. 
In any event if B didnt authorise any of these changes then they were made in error and 
thats why it was refunded for the payments. I wasnt convinced by Bank of Scotlands 
explanation of future protection for the account and how updating the signature on the 
mandate (which seems to be genuine already) will resolve things. Given the time over which 
this happened and the persistent nature of the fraud I thought it is reasonable for B to expect 
a new BCA and this seems to be possible and has been discussed based on what Bank of 
Scotland has said.
I then needed to turn to the process involved. There has been some ambiguity in what Bank 
of Scotland has said about this and the reasons why. I had none of its internal 
documentation to support its position and show what that process is. But I noted from the 
template overdraft facility letter (with my emphasis in bold added) that it states: 
We, [] (the Bank), are pleased to provide you [] with an authorised overdraft facility on 
account number Srt_Cd Acc_No or any other account that may be opened as a 
replacement or substitution for it, on the following terms and conditions
Frankly, I wasnt persuaded on what Id seen that a new application is necessary for B an 
existing customer with an existing facility. There is no change in risk I could see, and B 
appears in any event to have been due to have its overdraft reviewed recently for another 
year. In addition, the facility letter template appears to envisage circumstances where an 
overdraft may simply be moved to a new replacement account but of course remain with the 
exact same borrower and on the same terms. 
I recognised that an overdraft by its nature is repayable on demand and there is no 
guarantee it will continue. And I also needed to allow Bank of Scotland to apply its own 
process as it thinks fit. But I could appropriately think in all these circumstances about the 
reasonableness and impact of such for B which has been the victim of fraud and has justified 
concerns about the security of its existing account. And so here I considered on the 
information Id seen that B is being caused unnecessary and unexplained inconvenience. I 
found Bank of Scotland is responsible for this and I said I intended to award B £250 to reflect 
it. I needed to tell B that I wasnt reasonably able to direct Bank of Scotland to change its 
commercial process as B wants although I still invited Bank of Scotland to reconsider its 
position in light of my assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland said it had no more information to provide and would wait for my final 
decision.B said that there were several things that werent correct. It didnt consider that the account 
was secure, and it didnt see what would prevent fraudsters, in possession of its existing 
account details, doing the same again. B explained that it didnt use internet banking but 
telephone banking before. And due to blocks on telephone banking it couldnt now pay its 
bills other than by going to a branch. B said that no one had requested the director update 
the mandate.
I have no reason to doubt what B says about the position with its account now. I said in my 
provisional decision that I didnt think that the protection for the account would resolve things 
for B. And it remains reasonable for B to want a new BCA. Thats why I considered what 
would be involved with this and Bs complaint point about the related need to apply for a new 
overdraft.
Bank of Scotland hasnt made any further comments about the requirements for that. I cant 
reasonably require Bank of Scotland to change its processes as Ive explained. And so 
instead I have considered the inconvenience for B. I dont have a basis to change the level 
of compensation I provisionally thought was reasonable for that. This will mean that as B has 
ongoing concerns its remedy will be to open a new account. And I award £250 for the 
inconvenience of it particularly needing to reapply for an overdraft as part of that process in 
all the circumstances Ive set out here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay B £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman