DRN-4017984
The complaint
Mr O complains about delays with a valuation when he applied to re-mortgage his buy to let 
property with Skipton Building Society. He asks that Skipton pays compensation for his costs 
of £460.
What happened
Mr O applied to Skipton for a buy to let mortgage via a broker in May 2022. The property is a 
house in multiple occupation (HMO). 
Skipton instructed a valuation, which was scheduled for early June 2022. Mr Os broker 
contacted the valuers to check they knew the property was an HMO, as not all surveyors 
value HMOs. The valuers contacted Skipton in mid-May 2022. Skipton said it was a buy to 
let re-mortgage and didnt confirm the property was a HMO. 
Skipton did confirm to the valuers that the property was an HMO in late May 2022. The 
valuation was re-arranged from 6 June 2022 to 14 June 2022. Mr O says he travelled to the 
property on 14 June 2022 only to receive a message that the valuer had cancelled the 
appointment. A valuation was carried out on 5 July 2022.
Mr O says he incurred costs due to the delay. He says his wasted journey on 14 June 2022 
cost about £20 in petrol. Mr O says his previous mortgage went on to his lenders standard 
variable rate on 7 July 2022 and Skipton should compensate him for additional interest for 
31 days.
Our investigator said Skipton had told the valuers the property was an HMO before the first 
scheduled appointment. It wasnt responsible for delays after that. Our investigator said the 
£75 paid by Skipton was fair for the inconvenience its error caused.
Mr O didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton accepts that it told the valuers in mid-May 2022 that the application was a BTL re-
mortgage and didnt confirm the property was a HMO. It confirmed that the property was a 
HMO later in May 2022. The valuation was re-scheduled for 14 June 2022. 
Mr O says a surveyor from a different firm of valuers was due to attend that day, and this 
must have been on instruction from Skipton. Skipton says the valuer it instructed arranged 
for a local surveyor to carry out the valuation. I havent seen anything to suggest what 
Skipton has said about this isnt correct. 
Skipton says it was for the valuers to arrange the valuation and its not responsible for the 
missed appointment on 14 June 2022, or any delays after this.
Skipton made an error when it didnt confirm to the valuer that the property was an HMO. It 
corrected this in late May 2022, when it told the valuer that the property was an HMO. At this 
point, Skipton had appointed a suitably qualified valuer to carry out the valuation, and it had 
made the valuers aware that the property was an HMO. 
The valuers arranged an appointment on 14 June 2022, which was cancelled at short notice. 
I dont think its fair to say that Skipton was responsible for this, which happened some three 
weeks after it had given correct information to the valuers about the property. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Skipton to compensate Mr O for his petrol costs.
I appreciate Mr Os frustration that the valuation wasnt carried out until early July 2022, and 
his mortgage went on to his lenders standard variable rate soon after. But I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Skipton to pay the compensation he asks for. As I said, it had 
given the valuers correct information about the property being a HMO by late May 2022. I 
cant fairly say that Skipton was responsible if the valuers didnt complete a valuation earlier 
 whether this was due to limited availability of surveyors able to value HMOs or errors on 
their part. 
Skipton offered £75 compensation for any inconvenience caused by its error. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Skipton to pay more compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that Skipton Building Society should, as it offered to do, pay £75 to Mr O (if it 
hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman