DRN-1602032
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that a static holiday caravan supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement by Black Horse Limited was:
missold to him by Black Horses agent PR; and
was of unsatisfactory quality contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
  
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M agreed to acquire a used static holiday caravan to be sited on one of 
PRs sites. He signed various documents, including:
a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. This described the caravan as having 
been new in December 2007. The cash price was stated to be £10,517.74. Mr M paid 
a deposit of £1,051.78, and agreed to pay the balance of the cash price and finance 
charges by 60 monthly instalments of £194.47 each; 
a holiday home purchase agreement with PR. This itemised what was included in the 
cash price. It included the price of the holiday home itself (£3,266.40) various utility 
connection charges, accessories, general and water rates and insurance, and the 
pitch fee for the remainder of 2019 (£4,520.70); and
a holiday home pitch licence agreement. This detailed when charges for annual pitch 
fees, water and general rates, insurance, and gas and electricity would next become 
due. In the case of the annual pitch fee for the 2020 season, it was stated this would 
be invoiced in October 2019.
 
Soon after Mr M acquired the caravan, a number of faults appeared including, in particular, 
delay in fitting ground anchors, corroded burners in the oven (in spite of a gas safety check 
certificate dated 28 May 2019), and a rotted floor that had to be replaced. He complained to 
PR, and it repaired and dealt with these matters.
Mr M thought the caravan had been missold to him because:
he said he was told before he acquired the caravan that it had come back to PR as a 
part exchange for a new caravan, but he later found it was an ex-fleet hire caravan;
he had been misled that the cash price of the caravan (advertised as £9,995) didnt 
relate substantially to the caravan itself, but included a lot of other items and charges; 
and
the caravan had various faults as mentioned above, which he thought PR had known 
about.
 
Mr M said if he had known the truth about these matters he wouldnt have acquired the 
caravan.In August 2019, Mr M complained to Black Horse about the unsatisfactory quality of the 
caravan when supplied, and that it had been missold to him. He wanted to hand the caravan 
back and to end the hire purchase agreement. Black Horse considered these as two 
separate complaints.
Unsatisfactory quality
Black Horse accepted that the caravan was unsatisfactory in a number of respects when 
supplied. However, it pointed out that PR had carried out the required repairs and 
rectification. To compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset, and loss of enjoyment Mr M had 
suffered Black Horse paid Mr M £500. 
Misselling
Black Horse said that according to PR Mr M signed all the relevant agreements, including 
those Ive mentioned above, on 14 May 2019, and they clearly set out what he was 
acquiring, how the price was made up, and when further sums would become due.
Mr M said he didnt have his glasses with him that day and so couldnt read the documents. 
Black Horse said it was Mr Ms responsibility to make sure he understood what he was 
signing.
Black Horse was satisfied Mr Ms application for finance came within its lending criteria, and 
was in accordance with its procedures. It was up to Mr M to satisfy himself about the value of 
what he was acquiring. That wasnt up to Black Horse. 
PR had supplied Black Horse with a copy of the sales leaflet it had prepared for the sale of 
this caravan. This confirmed the cash price of the caravan was £9,995, inclusive of the 
items, which it listed, later shown in the holiday home purchase agreement.
PR said general and water rates, and insurance, amounting to £515.20, took the cash price 
to £10,510.20. PR said those items were always listed separately. PR said the breakdown 
was advised to Mr M before 14 May 2019, and again on that day. 
Unfortunately, the total cash price was wrongly shown as £10,517.74. Black Horse 
apologised for this, and arranged for PR to credit Mr Ms bank account with £25 
compensation.
That apart, Black Horse didnt accept Mr Ms complaint as it didnt think the evidence Mr M 
had supplied supported his claim of misselling. It said PR had taken appropriate steps to put 
the issues right, and it hadnt seen any evidence that these repairs had failed. So Mr M 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. On the faults in the 
caravan, she noted Mr M thought PR had covered these up, and Mr M wouldnt have 
acquired the caravan if he had known about them. However she thought Black Horse had 
acted fairly in ensuring the required repairs were done, and paying £500 in compensation for 
loss of enjoyment, trouble and upset.
On the issue of misselling or misrepresentation, she said she wasnt present at the meetings 
between Mr M and PRs representatives. So she couldnt know exactly what was said. 
However, the true position was set out in the documents Mr M signed. She said it was reasonable to expect Mr M to read the terms of the agreement before he 
signed it to ensure any verbal agreement matched the written agreement. From all she had 
seen, she didnt have enough evidence to conclude that the transaction was misrepresented.
Mr M responded to say, in summary that:
his main issue was his being misled into acquiring the caravan by PRs actions;
Black Horses representative had said she didnt normally deal with misselling 
complaints, and he thought she hadnt properly investigated his complaint; and
he said he had returned the caravan to PR because he couldnt afford to keep it. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr M had brought this complaint to us, and the investigator had issued her view, Mr M 
raised another item of complaint  namely that Black Horse hadnt performed an affordability 
assessment in respect of him. It should have done this to check he would be able to repay 
the finance before offering him the hire purchase agreement.
Mr M has said he wants us to deal swiftly with his complaint. I appreciate this new issue 
arises out of his acquiring the caravan. But Black Horse hasnt had the opportunity to 
consider and issue its response on this new issue. So I dont think its appropriate to pause 
this complaint while this happens.
If Mr M wishes to raise this he should do so as a separate complaint, initially to Black Horse. 
If he isnt satisfied with its response, he can then bring a separate complaint to us about it.
The caravan was delivered with defects; these didnt become apparent until some time after 
Mr M took delivery. However, PR has repaired the defects, and Black Horse paid Mr M 
compensation for the trouble and upset, and loss of enjoyment, this caused him. So I dont 
think there is any breach of contract outstanding that would entitle Mr M, under CRA, to 
terminate the hire purchase agreement.
I understand that Mr M considers PR misled him into entering into the sales agreement and 
the hire purchase agreement because:
it misled him about the history of this used caravan;
it concealed how the cash sales price was made up: and
the caravan was supplied with defects that werent obvious at the time, and that PR 
may or may not have known about.
 
Mr M hasnt supplied any other evidence to support what he says PR told him about the 
caravans history. So I cant be sure what exactly was said at the time, or whether this would 
have influenced Mr Ms decision to acquire the caravan, which he inspected at the time.
I think all the information about how the sales price was made up was available to Mr M on 
the documents he signed, but it seems he didnt read them at the time because he didnt 
have his glasses. PR also says it explained the breakdown to him separately. 
If I was satisfied that PR had made false statements of fact about the caravan which induced 
Mr M to enter into the agreements, this would have amounted to misrepresentation for which he would have a remedy. But merely supplying goods with hidden defects that become 
apparent later doesnt of itself amount to misrepresentation.
So Im not persuaded that PR misled Mr M, or misrepresented the transaction, so as to 
entitle Mr M to cancel the agreements. Whatever Mr M may have thought at the time, I cant 
say this was the result of misrepresentations by PR.
Mr M also says Black Horse shouldnt have entered into the hire purchase agreement 
because of the split in the cash purchase between the various elements being supplied. 
However when it became aware of this, Black Horse said it was satisfied the transaction 
didnt breach its procedures.
Mr M is critical of the way Black Horse investigated his complaint, and the apparent lack of 
experience of its investigator. I think she went about the investigation properly. She had to 
correspond with PR as much of the information was in its control. Having looked at all the 
evidence available, I have come to the same conclusions as did the Black Horse 
investigator. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Black Horse 
Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman