DRN-3176357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA). They say that AXA 
continued to charge a premium when only limited services were available because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. As a result of this, Mrs H faced considerable delays in having an 
operation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had an annual private medical insurance policy, which started in September 
2011 and had been renewed each year. AXA was the underwriter. Since making their 
complaint to AXA, Mr and Mrs H have cancelled this policy and taken out a policy through 
another provider. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK entered into a period of national lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Over the next three months, AXA kept its members updated by email about the impact of 
Covid-19 and its services. It sent email updates on the following dates:
27 March 2020  Private hospitals supporting the NHS.
April 2020  Were here for you.
June 2020  Private hospitals are currently open.
On 16 April 2020, Mrs H called AXA to inform it that shed been referred for an operation and 
asked if she would be covered under her policy. AXA confirmed it would authorise the 
operation. It said due to Covid-19, it was unlikely the NHS could arrange Mrs Hs operation 
within six weeks. It therefore authorised the operation immediately and waived this policy 
term in this instance. AXA asked Mrs H to update it when she knew the date and location of 
the operation. It said she should speak with her specialist about booking this in.
On 26 June 2020, Mr H contacted AXA. He said he was unhappy that Mrs H hadnt been 
booked in for an operation and that they were paying a premium but they had no access to 
the services due to Covid-19. AXA offered Mr and Mrs H one months free cover as a 
gesture of goodwill and as Mr and Mrs H were unhappy, AXA issued its final response on 14 
July 2020.
AXA said it understood there had been a disruption in the services provided to planned non-
urgent NHS and private treatment because of the pandemic, but that access to private 
hospital services were quickly returning and many were accepting private patients again. It 
also said there may be regional differences and some patients may have to travel further. 
But it was doing everything to ensure members could access services they require as 
quickly as possible, including pre-authorised eligible treatment. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with AXAs final response. They told AXA Mrs Hs specialist 
was only offering face to face consultations even though it was an operation that she 
needed. AXA replied and said it had no control of when private hospitals would fully resume 
services.
Mr and Mrs H were still unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. At this point 
they had no date confirmed for the operation. Our investigator looked into the complaint. She 
said we couldnt look into the issues regarding the policy premium increases and the 
customer service provided by AXA as these were raised following AXAs final response was 
issued. As such Mr and Mrs H would need to raise these first with AXA. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She said AXA acknowledged that 
there was restricted availability of private health facilities and the impact this had on its 
members attempting to access these services. But the treatment delays were outside of 
AXAs control and while AXA offered one free months cover, it was not obliged to do so. 
AXA also intended to cover the cost of members claims, which were authorised during the 
pandemic once services resumed. So, she didnt think it would be reasonable for AXA to pay 
these claims as well as refund the premiums. 
In regard to whether AXA ought to have reviewed members premiums sooner than March 
2022, she said it was reasonable for AXA to consider the full impact of the pandemic over 
2020 and 2021. Until the situation had settled, and the independent review had taken place, 
it wasnt reasonable for AXA to make a decision on paying a rebate to its members. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance for insurers are set out by the insurance industry regulator, the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook
(ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Limited services available and the impact caused to Mrs H
I can see Mrs H first contacted AXA about her referral for an operation in April 2020. At this 
point, the services AXA provided cover for had been impacted by Covid-19 but, in line with 
the terms and conditions of her policy, AXA did authorise the operation immediately. It also 
waived the six-week NHS option on the policy. Following on from this, Mrs Hs specialist 
wasnt able to offer or confirm a date for her operation because local private facilities were 
being used by the NHS. 
I completely understand the frustration and distress caused to Mr and Mrs H as a result of 
the services being limited due to Covid-19. It must have been challenging for them. 
However, its important to note that AXA wasnt responsible for providing the treatment or 
operation itself and had no control over what and who was available. AXAs role was to 
provide cover for the treatment, and I cant see that AXA caused delays in doing this. Indeed 
ii authorised the treatment and also waived the six-week NHS option that wouldve ordinarily  
applied to their policy. 
Private services and facilities were limited from March 2020 and I can see AXA continued to 
provide treatment for those who urgently needed it. This was an unprecedented time and 
priority was given to patients with conditions linked to the Covid-19 pandemic. While I appreciate it must have been frustrating to be paying a premium for services that 
werent always available, from the evidence available, I dont think AXA did anything wrong. 
It provided authorisation for the operation, waived the six-week NHS option on the policy and 
offered one months free cover which it wasnt obliged to do. I unerstand delays were caused 
which was unfortunate, but these delays werent within the control of AXA. Im not persuaded 
therefore that the impact and delays for the operation were as a result of what AXA directly 
did. 
Should AXA have offered a rebate on the premium?
AXA informed its members that an independent review would take place to decide on 
whether rebates would be due to its members. It said it would do this in late 2021 and any 
refund due would be communicated to any eligible members by March 2022. It said given 
that there was a continued impact from Covid-19, it wasnt possible to see the real impact 
until the situation had stabilised. It would be in a better position to communicate this by 
March 2022 - once realistic calculations were known and could be made. Im satisfied this 
was reasonable and I dont think the timescales AXA communicated for doing this are unfair 
or unreasonable. 
Conclusion
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, AXA did what it could to assist Mr and Mrs H 
taking account of the terms and conditions of their policy. As I explained above, while Mrs H 
experienced delays in receiving the treatment and in receiving a date for her operation, this 
wasnt a decision AXA had control over. Private facilities were being used for Covid-19 and it 
wasnt a decision that AXA could override. AXA also intended to cover the cost of members 
claims, which were authorised during the pandemic once services resumed. So, I dont think 
it would be reasonable for AXA to pay these claims as well as refund the premiums. It 
follows that I dont think AXA did anything wrong so I wont be asking AXA to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman