DRN-2136181
The complaint
Mr H complains that he has not received the balance of his account  after it was closed by 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus (Cashplus). He wants his funds 
to be returned. 
What happened
Mr H held an account with Cashplus. 
In February 2019, Cashplus gave Mr H 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. 
Cashplus advised him that it would send him a cheque to return his balance. 
Mr Hs account was closed in mid-April 2019. At that time, he had a balance of £1496.15. 
Cashplus sent a cheque to Mr H for this amount. 
Mr H did not receive the cheque and contacted Cashplus in late May 2019 to advise that he 
had not received the cheque. He contacted Cashplus again in early September 2019 when 
he had still not received the cheque. 
Cashplus reissued the cheque in mid-September 2019 and sent it to Mr H. 
Mr H again did not receive the cheque and contacted Cashplus in mid-October 2019.
Cashplus asked that Mr H provide proof of address before it would send a further cheque. 
Mr H provided proof of his address and in early December 2019, Cashplus accepted his 
evidence. Mr H submitted a complaint at the delay in returning his funds. 
Mr H chased an update in early January 2020. Cashplus apologised for the delay but was 
not able to provide an update on the cheque. 
In late February 2020, Cashplus sent a further cheque. Mr H again did not receive this and 
contacted Cashplus in late March to ask where it was. 
In April 2020, Cashplus advised Mr H that the cheque sent out in February had been 
cashed. Cashplus therefore refused to send a further cheque. 
In late April 2020 Cashplus obtained a copy of the cashed cheque and saw that the cheque 
payee had been altered to a different name. Cashplus advised Mr H that recovery of the 
funds would now be a civil matter between him and the person into whose name the cheque 
had been altered. 
Mr H was not happy with this so contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Cashplus had not treated Mr H fairly, both in the delay in sending out each cheque, 
and in its decision to not pay Mr H after the February 2020 cheque had been wrongly 
cashed. 
Cashplus did not accept this view and sent in further submissions. The investigator 
considered these but remained of the view that Cashplus ought to pay Mr H his funds, and 
that Cashplus should pay him compensation for the delay. 
Cashplus did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular regard to the investigators view and the response from Cashplus. 
In its response, Cashplus points to comments from the investigator about why it was 
reasonable to request proof of address after the first two cheques had gone missing and 
Cashplus cites some of its terms and conditions. 
I have considered the terms and do not criticise Cashplus for requesting proof of address in 
the circumstances. Given that cheques sent there had not been received I think it was 
reasonable to ensure that Cashplus was sending the cheque to the correct place. 
Beyond this, however, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator, in that Cashplus 
unreasonably delayed in sending out the cheques, and that Cashplus acted unfairly in 
refusing to pay Mr H when the February 2020 cheque had been wrongly cashed. 
I agree that Cashplus should pay Mr H his balance, plus interest, and compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, as set out by the investigator. 
Cashplus has made submissions that it believes a fraud has taken place, and that it is not 
aware that a police report has been made. 
I do not consider that this is Mr Hs responsibility to make a police report in the 
circumstances. Cashplus is in the position to provide details to the police about what 
happened to the wrongly cashed cheque, and Cashplus can pursue this with the police if it 
wishes. Mr H has confirmed that he has not received the cheque, and he does not know the 
person by whom the cheque was cashed. I do not think it fair or reasonable that he be 
penalised due to the actions of a third party. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
To put matters right I think that Cashplus should provide Mr H with the balance of his 
account (£1496.15), by bank transfer, within 28 days of him providing up to date details.
Cashplus should also pay to Mr H interest on his balance, from April 2019 up until the date 
of settlement. 
Cashplus should also pay to Mr H £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and given by the investigator, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and 
direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, to:
Pay to Mr H (by bank transfer) his balance of £1496.15 within 28 days of Mr H 
providing up to date bank details;
Pay to Mr H interest on the above sum at a rate of 8% per annum from April 2019 up 
until the date of settlement; and 
Pay to Mr H £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman