DRN-1808508
The complaint
Mr T isnt happy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a store 
card. 
In this case it has been agreed that AXA, as the insurer, take responsibility for the complaint. 
So Ill be referring to AXA throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in July 1999. Mr T made a complaint that 
the PPI policy had been mis-sold. AXA agreed and calculated how much it owed Mr T in 
compensation to try and put him in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt had PPI 
on the account.
Its basic records showed that the policy ran from July 1999 until August 1999 and Mr T was 
only ever charged one premium for PPI, totalling £0.09. AXA offered to refund that one 
premium to Mr T and it also offered him some additional compensation set at 8% simple 
interest per year  to compensate him for the time he was out of pocket. This came to £0.08 
after tax.
So AXAs total offer of compensation came to £0.17, after tax. 
Mr T thinks he should be paid more in compensation and has asked us to check that the 
offer is fair.
Our adjudicator looked at what AXA had offered and thought its offer was fair.
As Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
it's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has already agreed to settle Mr Ts PPI mis-sale complaint. So I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute. 
In this decision I will only be considering whether AXA has offered fair compensation. And 
having looked at AXAs offer of compensation, Im satisfied its fair. Ill explain why. 
Our approach to compensation 
When a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint, Id expect it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy. With a PPI policy attached to a store card, Id expect a business to refund any overpayments 
a consumer made on the store card because of PPI (typically PPI premiums and, if 
applicable, any associated interest charged on those PPI premiums), any fees/charges 
directly caused by the PPI and 8% simple interest per year  to compensate a consumer if 
they have been out of pocket. 
The evidence available in this case
Its understandable that AXA doesnt have full information and records (including statements) 
about Mr Ts account. The store card and PPI policy were taken out a very long time ago 
and businesses arent expected to keep records indefinitely. 
But, and importantly, AXA has some information which it has used to work out a fair offer. It 
has the application form Mr T completed in July 1999 and it also has basic computer records 
about his account. Ive seen a copy of the computer records and I have no reason to doubt 
that these aren't genuine.
The records show Mr Ts PPI policy ran for one month, from July 1999 until August 1999, 
and Mr T was only ever charged one PPI premium of £0.07. 
AXAs offer of compensation.
AXA has offered to refund that PPI premium to Mr T and it has offered him some additional 
compensation for the time he has been out of pocket of this money.
I appreciate Mr T thinks the offer is low, and maybe thought he had spent more on his card. 
But AXA has the records of the total PPI ever charged to the account. And as Ive said, I 
have no reason to doubt these records. 
Mr Ts offer is low, simply because he only ever paid one premium for PPI. But importantly,  
Mr T is getting back fair compensation, as he is getting back what he actually paid for PPI.
AXAs offer of compensation is fair and in line with what Id expect to see and as far as is 
possible puts Mr T in the position as if he had never taken PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, AXA France IARD has calculated Mr Ts offer fairly. And it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman