DRN-3983214
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave her loans she couldnt afford to repay, and which put her into financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
Mrs C was advanced four loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of her borrowing follows. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £300.00 21/06/2018 27/09/2018 4 £102.53
2 £500.00 27/09/2018 28/03/2019 5 £172.57
3 £700.00 03/04/2019 26/09/2019 6 £209.03
4 £550.00 07/10/2019 14/01/2020 4 £206.87
In response to Mrs Cs complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to her explaining why it wasnt going to 
uphold it. Mrs C didnt agree, and she referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and she didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
about loan 1. But she thought, loans 2 - 4 shouldnt have been granted because 
MoneyBoats credit checks showed a deterioration in Mrs Cs financial position. She was in 
arrears with her mortgage and between loans 1 and 2 her overall indebtedness had 
increased along with the number of active credit accounts. And in the adjudicators view 
loans 2  4 shouldnt have been lent as they werent sustainable. 
Mrs C appears to have accepted the assessment. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators most recent assessment. As 
no response was received, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mrs C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mrs Cs complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs C was able to repay 
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
The adjudicator didnt uphold loan Mrs C complaint about loan 1 and neither Mrs C nor 
MoneyBoat appear to disagree with this. To me, it seems that this loan is no longer in 
dispute, so I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether MoneyBoat 
was right or wrong to have advanced loans 2  4. 
Loan 2
For this loan, Mrs C declared she had a monthly income of £2,100. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. 
Mrs C declared her expenditure to be around £830 per month. However, as part of the 
affordability check MoneyBoat said it did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement.
As a result of these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Mrs Cs monthly expenditure by 
£954, giving her total monthly outgoings of £1,784. This left £316 per month of disposable 
income to meet the repayments Mrs C was committed to making. Based solely on the 
income and expenditure information the loan looked affordable.  MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out before this loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided to us. It is entirely reasonable to consider these results to 
see what MoneyBoat knew about Mrs Cs other credit commitments (and credit history) at 
the time it advanced this loan. 
MoneyBoat, just from the initial summary page it knew Mrs Cs debt was marginally larger 
than at loan 1. But by loan 2, she had a total of 19 active credit accounts  which is an 
increase on the 16 she had at loan 1. In addition, she had now taken 7 new credit facilities 
within the last six months. Which is again a significant increase on the 2 new credit facilities 
she opened in the six months before loan 1. 
Based solely on the initial summary page, I think its fair to say MoneyBoat ought to have 
been on notice that Mrs Cs finances were potentially deteriorating. I say this because she 
was demonstrating a need to not only have more credit facilities than she did before but in 
addition, she was also averaging taking one new credit facility per month which in my view 
isnt sustainable. 
Had MoneyBoat looked further into the credit check results it wouldve been aware that 
Mrs C already had six outstanding loans that have been classed as either Advance Against 
Income, Home Credit or Finance House. The cost per month to service just these six loans 
was £1,611. I do think, given the number and the already sizeable commitment Mrs C was 
going to have to make to service what was likely a number of high-cost credit loans, that any 
further borrowing wasnt going to be sustainable for her. 
But in addition, to the loan not being sustainable  which MoneyBoat ought to have 
concluded, it also in my view wasnt affordable. I say this because as part of Mrs Cs 
application she declared £730 of other costs such as food and transport. I added this figure 
to her existing credit commitments of £1,611 and it came to £2,341 which was more than her 
declared income. So, she didnt have any disposable income in which to take on further 
credit. 
On top of this, Mrs C had a mortgage which was in arrears and had been for some time  
again this points to further financial difficulties, because I think it is fair to say that her 
mortgage was a priority debt. As part of her application Mrs C says her mortgage costs were 
only £100 per month whereas the credit report indicates these are £923 per month  
although I accept, and I cant say for sure that she may not have been the sole person 
responsible for these payments. 
Overall, taking account of what the credit check results showed, MoneyBoat ought to have 
concluded that firstly, the loan wasnt sustainable for Mrs C given her existing credit 
commitments to what was likely a combination of high-cost credit and payday loans. And 
secondly, it also ought to have concluded that the loan wasnt affordable either, given her 
existing expenditure exceeded her income. Im therefore upholding Mrs Cs complaint about 
loan 2. 
Loans 3 and 4
The same sort of checks was carried out for these loans as they were for loan 2. Each new 
loan was taken fairly quickly after the previous loan was repaid and her monthly credit 
commitment for both of these loans was broadly similar. 
Mrs C declared income of £1,900 per month for loan 3 and £2,100 for loan 4. Outgoings 
were also declared of £800 for loans 3 and £750 for loan 4. As before, MoneyBoat made adjustments to her declared living costs and increased her monthly expenditure by £844 for 
loan 3 and £837 for loan 4. 
Therefore, these loans looked affordable solely based on the income and expenditure 
checks MoneyBoat carried out. 
However, the credit check results indicated that while Mrs Cs overall indebtedness dropped 
along with the number of active credit facilities (down to 11 by loan 3 and 12 by loan 4). Her 
mortgage arrears persisted and in fact increased in the month before loan 3 was granted 
and the mortgage account was still in arrears by the time loan 4 was given.  
The credit files also show Mrs C continued to use expensive, high-cost credit throughout the 
months that she borrowed from MoneyBoat which further shows she had a continued and 
ongoing need for this type of credit. In those circumstances, given her need for new credit 
and the persistent arrears on a priority debt have led me to conclude these two loans werent 
sustainable for Mrs C either. 
I am therefore upholding Mrs Cs complaint about these loans as well. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loans 2  4 to Mrs C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mrs C loans 2 - 4. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs C towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 2, 3 and 4, including payments made to a third 
party where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded. 
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mrs C the total of A plus B. 
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in 
relation to loans 2, 3 and 4. *HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mrs C as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman