DRN-3287018
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) wrongly refused to fund the costs of 
pursuing legal action under their Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy.
Where I refer to RAC, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C have LEI cover as part of their home insurance policy. The LEI is 
underwritten by RAC. 
Mrs C owns the property insured under the home policy jointly with her former spouse. She 
occupies it with her new husband and family. In 2020 Mrs C made a claim on the LEI section 
of the policy to cover her costs of taking legal action against her former spouse in connection 
with a declaration of trust shed agreed with him in October 2016.
RAC declined cover. They gave several reasons as to why the policy didnt respond. But in 
the response to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint, RAC relied on an exclusion that said there was 
no cover for claims arising from or relating to divorce. 
Since RAC didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint, they brought it to this service. Our 
investigator agreed with RAC that the exclusion applied. Since Mr C and Mrs C were 
unhappy with our investigators view, their complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand it was frustrating for Mr C and Mrs C that RAC turned down their LEI claim. 
That seems to have been based on an incomplete understanding of the legal action Mrs C 
was hoping to take. But after shed explained things more fully, RAC confirmed, in their 
response to the complaint, that they were declining cover based on an exclusion.
RAC said the LEI cover they provided was for personal injury, consumer protection, 
residential disputes and employment disputes. But the policy excluded cover for claims 
arising from or relating to divorce, judicial separation, matrimonial matters, custody access, 
parental responsibility or contact. They said since the matter Mrs C was looking to claim for 
was following a divorce, there was no cover. 
I understand RAC considered Mrs Cs insurance claim under what they described as the 
residential disputes section of the policy. The relevant policy wording provided cover for 
Professional Costs and Expenses [as defined in the policy] of up to £50,000 incurred in 
Pursuit of civil claims brought within the Geographical Limits [as defined in the policy] by [Mr 
C and Mrs C] for damages, arising from or out of:

iii) any infringement of [Mr C and Mrs C]s legal rights arising from and relating to [Mr C and 
Mrs C]s ownership or occupation of [Mr C and Mrs C]s principal place of residence where 
the Insured event occurs more than 180 days after inception of the first period of insurance.
The only relevant exclusion to cover was:
11) Claims arising from or relating to:
i) Divorce, judicial separation, matrimonial matters or Proceedings including 
financial ancillary relief, parental responsibility and contact, cohabitation or 
affiliation.
Mrs Cs explained her divorce went through in 2013. Since there were no assets other than 
the property which she now lives in with Mr C and their family, and its value at the time was 
around the same as the mortgage over it, there was no financial settlement at the time. 
When her former partner left the property, their plan was to transfer the property to Mrs C, 
but the mortgage lender wouldnt agree to that. 
The declaration of trust Mrs C agreed with her former spouse said, broadly, on the basis she 
was paying the mortgage and other outgoings relating to the property, the property was held 
on trust for her and he would transfer the property to her if she asked him to and the lender 
agreed. Mrs C says her former spouse has refused to act in accordance with the terms of 
the declaration of trust. 
Arguments about the LEI cover have focused on whether or not the exclusion applies. I think 
theres also an issue about whether there is any cover at all. Mrs Cs said the purpose of 
proceedings against her former spouse would be to enforce the terms of the declaration of 
trust and claim damages on grounds he hasnt cooperated in remortgaging and shes lost 
out on getting a lower interest rate product as a result.  
I cant comment on whether the legal claim Mrs C wants to pursue against her former 
spouse can be made under the terms of the declaration of trust. Thats a matter for legal 
experts. And theres limited information about the claim Mrs C plans to make. But Im not 
convinced, based on what I know, that her legal claim would be aimed at recovering 
damages based on an infringement of her legal rights in relation to ownership or occupation 
of the property. Its not a claim for trespass or nuisance, for example. Its a claim for an 
alleged breach of an agreement she entered into with her former spouse. And theres no 
cover for that sort of claim under the LEI policy.
Even if Im wrong about that, I dont think Mrs C is entitled to cover under the policy in the 
circumstances of this complaint as I think the exclusion applies. I can see theres been 
discussion about the meaning of the word affiliation in the exclusion. I dont think thats 
relevant. The exclusion sets out in terms which I think are clear, fair, and not misleading  as 
they should be  that claims arising from or relating to divorce arent covered.  
Mrs Cs explained the declaration of trust was prepared by property lawyers who werent 
involved in the divorce.  She argues the declaration of trust was a commercial arrangement 
between joint owners and the fact theyd been married was irrelevant; it was separate from 
and made much later than the divorce, in 2016; and it cant be said to arise from or relate to 
the divorce. 
I acknowledge Mrs Cs arguments, but I dont agree her conclusions. The declaration of trust 
makes reference to her marriage breakdown; it records how the mortgage has been paid by 
Mrs C and will continue to be paid by her following that; and sets out the basis on which the 
property can be transferred to Mrs C. I think the declaration of trust was made as a direct 
result of the divorce; even if it wasnt made at the time of the divorce, it clearly relates to the 
divorce.
Bearing everything in mind, I think RACs decision to decline cover was fair and reasonable.I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for Mr C and Mrs C. They may find it helpful 
to discuss their circumstances with the mortgage lender or to take independent financial 
advice about their options. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their complaint 
about RAC. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman