DRN-3937181
The complaint
Mr F complains Society of Lloyds unfairly assessed his claim for loss of training expenses, 
following the suspension of his professional medical certificate. 
What happened
Mr F was a member of a group insurance policy related to a professional training scheme. 
And attached to this, he took out his own individual policies. For ease I will refer to these as 
policy 1 (taken out in 2008) and policy 2 (taken out in 2014). 
Society of Lloyds has evidenced that policy 1 was taken out in April 2008, to run for two 
years. And was later extended until April 2011, which is when it lapsed. 
In 2010 Mr F experienced an emergency situation whilst training for his profession. And a 
letter he has provided from his Doctor written in 2012, states that signs of post-traumatic 
stress (PTSD) developed as a result. 
Mr Fs medical certificate lapsed in September 2011, and he said this was because at that 
time, he didnt renew it. He said he was not working commercially at that time, and he 
informed Society of Lloyds of this, but didnt make a claim.
In August 2014, Mr F took out another policy for one year - policy 2. 
At the end of July 2015, Mr F contacted Society of Lloyds stating his medical certificate had 
been suspended, and went on to make a claim. He provided a letter written by a medical 
examiner dated February 2015, which stated you are unfit to exercise the privileges of your 
licence, and related ratings of certificates, due to depression. And went on to say your 
medical certificate is provisionally suspended. 
There were some delays in the assessment of the claim by Society of Lloyds, and Mr F said 
he didnt receive any claim decision. Society of Lloyds said it informed Mr Fs broker of its 
decision, and expected the broker would pass the information on. 
Society of Lloyds declined Mr Fs claim. It said it had assessed the claim against policy 2, 
and the claim wasnt covered, mainly due to an exclusion within the policy related to mental 
or behaviour disorders.
Mr F complained. He said he was making his claim against policy 1, which stated cover was 
provided for any illness that manifests itself during the policy period. And he said he was 
unhappy about the way his claim had been handled and the time taken. 
Society of Lloyds said Mr F had held more than one policy. And the policy the claim had 
been assessed against - policy 2 - contained different policy wording from that which Mr F 
had quoted. It said it thought it had assessed the claim against the correct policy and 
maintained Mr Fs claim was caught by an exclusion related to mental or behaviour 
disorders. And it said the claim was also not covered as the illness hadnt manifested during 
the policy period, rather it had started before policy 2 was taken out. 
Society of Lloyds agreed it caused delays in handling the claim, and apologised that its claim 
decision had not been communicated to Mr F after it informed his broker. And it offered £150 
in compensation. 
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. He 
said his claim was assessed against the wrong policy and should be paid in full, plus a large 
amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The case was passed to me. I thought the complaint wasnt one which should be upheld and 
I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision 
In summary I said: 
Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And looked at the relevant rules 
and industry guidelines, which say Society of Lloyds has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I carefully considered which policy Mr Fs claim should have been assessed against, 
as I thought that was the issue at the heart of the complaint. And I thought about Mr 
Fs comments about the deadline for making a claim against his first policy being 
unlimited. Having done so, I thought Society of Lloyds had acted fairly in assessing 
the claim against policy 2. I said this because Mr F started his claim in 2015, at which 
point the only policy which was in force was policy 2. Society of Lloyds evidenced 
policy 1 ran up until April 2011 only. After this time, policy 1 was not renewed, and so 
Society of Lloyds was no longer on risk in relation to that cover. 
Mr F said his condition of PTSD was triggered by events in 2010, but it was not until 
2015 that his medical certificate was suspended, leading to him attempting to make a 
claim. I noted Mr F said he suspended himself from his training in 2010 due to 
symptoms of PTSD. However, he did not raise a claim against the policy at that time. 
Mr Fs licence lapsed in 2011, and I noted from the information he provided via his 
broker, this was due to him not renewing it, which he said was because of lack of 
available work. 
The medical evidence showed Mr Fs licence was suspended due to illness in 2015. 
And as policy 1 was no longer in force in 2015, I didnt think it unreasonable that 
Society of Lloyds refused to assess the claim against that policy, and instead 
assessed it against policy 2, which was active.  
Mr F has asked to see legal precedents which allow an insurer to decide which policy 
a claim is being made against. However I didnt think this was something which was 
relevant or necessary here. I said Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case put in front of me. And in this particular case, 
where Im satisfied that the earlier policy was no longer in force, I thought it entirely 
reasonable that Society of Lloyds assessed the claim against the only policy which 
was active. 
Turning to policy 2, I was satisfied Society of Lloyds fairly turned down Mr Fs claim 
when assessing it against this policy. And this is because policy 2 contains an 
exclusion for any claim directly or indirectly due to a mental or behaviour disorder 
and I was satisfied that the circumstances of Mr F suffering from PTSD, fell within this exclusion. The policy also excluded cover for conditions Mr F was aware of, or 
had sought advice, diagnosis, treatment or counselling for at the time of taking out 
the policy. I was satisfied this applied in this case, as although Mr Fs medical licence 
was not suspended until 2015, he was diagnosed with PTSD prior to policy 2 starting 
in 2014. 
Mr F said his claim should be covered as its within the spirit of the policy. I thought 
about this and considered what is fair and reasonable in this particular case. 
However, as the policy contains a specific exclusion in relation to mental health 
disorders, I wasnt persuaded that a claim such as this was intended to be covered. 
And so I said it would be unreasonable for me to direct Society of Lloyds to pay the 
claim, when such an exclusion exists within the policy. 
Mr F has also raised points about his professional training having not been 
completed. However I was satisfied this didnt make a difference to the claim, as I 
was already persuaded it was fairly declined based on the exclusions explained 
above. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Society of Lloyds made no comment on my provisional decision. Mr F responded and in 
summary he asked whether I had considered that policy 1 required medical unfitness to last 
at least three years to qualify, and asked what deadline there was for making a claim against 
that policy. He also asked questions about the workings of policy 2, and whether I thought it 
fair that mental health conditions were excluded. 
Mr F also asked me to consider the wider impacts of my decision, to show legal precedents 
to support what Ive said and has asked me to find Society of Lloyds in breach of its contract 
with him. 
I provided both parties with my thinking on the deadlines applicable to policy 1. In response 
Mr F raised points about contract law. He said the deadline did not have clear and 
unequivocal terms, it had a retroactive effect, and the wording was interpretive, and he had 
not agreed to it. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response.
Firstly, I dont think I need to comment on whether there has been a breach of contract, or 
reference any detailed legal precedents in this decision.  Were an informal service and an 
alternative to the courts. Whilst Im required to consider relevant law and industry best 
practice, which I have, my decision is ultimately based on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
Mr F raised a series of additional questions about the workings of policy 2. Some of these 
questions would be better directed to Society of Lloyds to answer as the policy underwriter. 
However, what I will say on this is that insurers are entitled to decide which risks they do and 
do not want to cover when offering insurance policies. And its quite clear from the terms of 
policy 2, that pre-existing mental health conditions were excluded from cover. I dont think there is anything unfair about the exclusion. However, if Mr F thinks the policy did not meet 
his needs and was mis-sold, he may want to raise a complaint directly with the broker who 
sold it to him.
In addition, Mr F has raised some further points which I wont be addressing as part of my 
final decision, as I dont think theyre relevant to the crux of this complaint. Instead Ive 
focused on the issues that I think are material in determining a fair and reasonable outcome. 
As Ive explained previously, this simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman 
service and my role in it.
Mr F disagrees that Society of Lloyds wasnt required to assess his claim against policy 1. 
Policy 1 ran from April 2008 to April 2011. And Mr F made his claim in July 2015. The policy 
provides the following definitions and terms which set out the requirements for making a 
claim.
Loss  Total inability to complete the training course so that you are unlikely by 
reason of illness or bodily injury to qualify for further licence / rating training within a 
minimum period of 36 months from the date of settlement of your claim.
Date of Loss  The first day that you are suspended from training as a direct result 
of sustaining bodily injury or the manifestation of an illness. Suspension must be 
evidenced by our receipt within 30 days of date of loss of a temporarily unfit 
assessment issued by the relevant licence issuing authority.
And under Claims conditions the policy says You must make a claim in writing as 
soon as possible and in any event not later than 30 days from the date of unfitness 
as a result of sustaining personal injury or the manifestation of an illness.
Mr F has said he followed the requirements of policy 1, making a claim only after he thought 
it was clear his illness would last over three years. However having reviewed the terms of 
policy 1 again, Ive found no requirement for Mr F to be medically unfit for three years before 
making a claim. 
The definition of loss covers a requirement for the claimant to be totally unable to complete 
the training within 36 months  so three years  from the date of settlement of a claim. And 
the claim conditions state claims should be made as soon as possible, and within 30 days. 
Im satisfied the reference to a minimum period of 36 months from the date of settlement of 
your claim within the definition of loss, refers to the claimants inability to complete the 
course needing to be ongoing for at least 36 months from the date the insurer pays the 
policy benefit. Im not persuaded this can reasonably be interpreted to mean a claimant must 
wait three years before making a claim. 
Mr Fs licence was suspended on medical grounds in 2015, so this would be the date of loss 
in line with the policy terms. However, this is outside the period of cover for policy 1, which 
lapsed in 2011. Society of Lloyds assessed the claim against policy 2, which was still in 
force, having begun in 2014. However, Mr F wanted his claim assessed against Policy 1. 
There are sometimes circumstances in which Id expect an insurer to accept a late claim, 
however Mr Fs claim was made more than three years after policy 1 had already ended. 
And Im not persuaded that policy 1 was designed to provide cover for claims with a date of 
loss arising after the cover had lapsed. And so it follows that Im satisfied policy 2 was the 
correct policy against which Society of Lloyds needed to assess Mr Fs claim.Ive considered the reasons Mr F gave for not making his claim sooner, but these have not 
persuaded me that Society of Lloyds needed to consider the claim against policy 1, which 
had lapsed in 2011. And I say this regardless of whether or not policy 2 had been taken out. 
However, even if I was wrong about this, and policy 1 was the correct policy for assessing 
the claim, Im still satisfied the claim wouldn't succeed. I appreciate the link Mr F is making 
between the suspension of his licence in 2015 and the event in 2010 which triggered PTSD. 
However, for a successful claim under policy 1, the terms require the policyholder to have 
been suspended due to illness or injury. And this was not the case in 2011 when Mr F 
lapsed his licence  the email evidence Ive seen shows Mr F did not renew the licence, and 
had said this was due to not working commercially and working in a different profession. Mr 
Fs licence was not suspended on medical grounds until 2015. So he did not meet the date 
of loss term whilst policy 1 was in force. And because of this, Im satisfied by Society of 
Lloyds explanation and the evidence Ive seen, that the claim Mr F made, would not have 
succeeded against policy 1.  
Ive also considered Mr Fs comments about the deadline for making a claim stipulated in 
policy 1, and his concerns that this contravenes contract law. I dont think I need to make a 
finding about any breach of law. However, I have thought about Mr Fs comments and have 
considered the policy terms again. 
In the case of an insurance policy, the terms and conditions form the basis of the contract. 
And Im satisfied the terms of policy 1 clearly set out the requirements for making a claim. 
Specifically that a claim must be made within 30 days of the date of unfitness due to 
sustaining an injury or the manifestation of an illness. And, that the date of loss is clearly 
defined as the first day of suspension from training, due to the same. 
Im satisfied Mr F accepted and agreed to these terms by incepting the policy. And Ive not 
been persuaded that it was unfair for Society of Lloyds to apply the terms and deadlines set 
out in policy 1, to Mr Fs claim. 
The points Mr F raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman