DRN-2962411
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) would not 
allow him to extend his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand Mr Fs position is that he believes if he was allowed to extend the finance 
agreement he would have levelled out his mileage and not incurred any excess mileage 
charges. Hes explained that there were exceptional circumstances that meant his mileage 
was excessive in the first two years and hes upset MBFS refused to allow an extension to 
his contract when it used to be their policy to do so. Indeed, hes explained that he benefitted 
from a contract extension previously and had therefore planned to do the same.
The finance agreement didnt provide for an extension and it was a policy decision for MBFS 
to make as to whether they would agree to one. They were entitled to vary that policy 
decision and I dont think its reasonable to expect them to honour previous policy decisions 
they may have implemented on Mr Fs previous agreement, as they were not contractually 
obliged to do so.
I understand that Mr F is concerned that he was told by MBFS that a helpline was a third-
party line when it was in fact controlled by MBFS. But I dont think that changes the situation 
as, unfortunately, regardless of who ran that line, I dont have evidence of what was 
discussed during Mr Fs call with them.
Mr F says that MBFS told him he could extend his policy but unfortunately theres no further 
evidence to support that assertion and MBFS dispute the suggestion. Im not therefore 
persuaded that there is enough evidence to suggest a promise of that nature was made.
I understand the circumstances Mr F has explained that caused him to drive more miles than 
he usually would have, but the contract entitled MBFS to charge for excess mileage and it 
was Mr Fs responsibility to remain within the mileage limit or to pay the costs at the end of 
the hire. 
As I dont think MBFS had to extend the contract and I dont think theres sufficient evidence 
to suggest Mr F was told he could extend his contract, I dont think it would be fair to tell 
MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman