DRN-1316234
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Lifesure Group Limited has administered her park home 
insurance policy. She feels Lifesure didnt act in her best interests in arranging her policy 
because it wasnt able to offer her Flood Re protection.
Mr G has brought this complaint on Mrs Bs behalf.
What happened
Lifesure arranged Mrs Bs park home insurance policy for many years through the same 
insurer. However, in 2019, Mrs Bs policy was transferred to a new insurer. 
In March 2019, Lifesure sent renewal documents to Mrs B explaining that her policy would 
no longer cover flood claims. Mrs B didnt get them in time for renewal in early April and so 
her policy lapsed. But she got in touch with Lifesure the next day and spoke to one of its 
advisers to arrange an insurance policy. 
During the call, the adviser told Mrs B that her policy was now underwritten by a new insurer 
and that it wouldnt cover any claims related to flood. The adviser gave her a quote for a 
lower price than shed been paying before. Mrs B was happy to go ahead with the quote and 
the policy was set-up.
Mr G got in touch with Lifesure. He thought the area where Mrs Bs home was situated was 
at a high risk of flooding. He thought Lifesure shouldve helped provide access to the Flood 
Re scheme, as this was something the new insurer subscribed to. Flood Re is a reinsurance 
company which allows insurance companies to insure themselves against losses caused by 
flooding.
Lifesure told Mr G it offered two insurance products for park home customers. Neither of 
these products included flood cover. It said its systems didnt allow it to offer Flood Re 
protection. Mr G wasnt happy with this. He thought, as Mrs B was a long-term and 
vulnerable customer, Lifesure should work with the new insurer to arrange access to Flood 
Re for her. So he asked us to look into Mrs Bs complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought Lifesure had 
made it clear to Mrs B that if she took up the new policy, shed no longer be covered for flood 
claims. He explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the industry regulator and 
so we cant ask financial businesses to change their policies.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. He provided a detailed response to the investigators 
assessment. Ive summarised the main points here:
He feels the change from the old insurer to the new was for Lifesures benefit;
Hes feels the insurers approach of treating Mrs Bs policy as new business was 
unfair;Lifesure shouldve protected the interests of vulnerable customers like Mrs B;
Mrs B is a vulnerable customer who doesnt understand financial services and would 
accept what she was being told;
Lifesure hasnt complied with either its own standards or its regulatory ones;
Lifesure didnt give Mrs B sufficient advice about her needs;
Lifesure didnt tell Mrs B that Flood Re protection was routinely available elsewhere;
The insurer is subscribed to Flood Re. Its morally unfair that Mrs B should be denied 
access to it because Lifesures systems dont allow it;
He is seeking a joined-up approach between the insurer, Lifesure and the industry 
regulator to offer Mrs B the cover she needs;
Lifesure didnt persuade the new insurer to accept the rough with the smooth, or to 
cede high-risk flood cases to Flood Re on behalf of customers like Mrs B.
 
Mr Gs told us that Lifesure has now found a way to access Flood Re and Mrs B now has 
Flood Re protection. Mrs B didnt need to make any flood claims or suffer any flood damage 
during the period she didnt have this cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Lifesure has 
treated Mrs B fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr G has provided very detailed submissions on Mrs Bs behalf. I understand he also sent 
copies of these submissions to, amongst others, the industry regulator and the new insurer. I 
appreciate he feels strongly about Mrs Bs complaint. Id like to reassure Mr G that Ive read 
all of the evidence hes provided and Ive considered it carefully, even though Ive 
summarised his points above.
First, I should make it clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the industry 
regulator. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our statutory duty is to 
investigate complaints on the behalf of individual consumers when things have or may have 
gone wrong. I have no power to tell a financial business how it should manage its processes 
or procedures. Neither can I interfere with the commercial relationships it chooses to enter 
into with other businesses or agencies; nor direct what products a financial business should 
provide.
On that basis, while I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed; much of what hes seeking to 
resolve Mrs Bs complaint simply isnt within my power to award. I cant compel Lifesure to 
enhance its systems . Neither can I direct Lifesure to enter into any inter-business or inter-
regulatory approaches to provide Flood Re protection in the future (although I understand its 
now been able to offer Mrs B Flood Re cover). I cant interfere in Lifesures reasons to 
change the insurer of its park home insurance product. And Lifesure isnt responsible for the 
cover the insurer itself does or doesnt want to provide.
What I can look at though is whether Lifesure treated Mrs B fairly when it set-up her new 
policy in April 2019. So that is what Ive focused on.
I appreciate Mrs B didnt receive the renewal documentation in time before her policy lapsed 
in April 2019. It appears this was down to the fact Lifesure sent the documents to Mr Gs old 
email address. I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Lifesure responsible for this though, as its told us it hadnt been given a new email address. And this isnt disputed by Mr 
G. 
As Mrs B didnt get in touch before the renewal date, her policy lapsed. I appreciate she got 
in touch with Lifesure the next day to sort her policy out. But I think it was appropriate at this 
point for Lifesure to treat this as a new policy, given the lapse of the old one. And Lifesure 
confirmed this made no difference to the cover the policy provided.
Even if the old policy hadnt lapsed, the fact remains that the insurer of the policy wouldve 
still changed. So the flood exclusion wouldve still applied to Mrs Bs policy. And Lifesure 
also offered her a lower premium in recognition of her long-term custom when it set-up the 
new policy. It didnt remove any of her no-claims discounts etc. So I dont think Mrs Bs lost 
out as a result of the policy being treated as new business. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether Lifesure met its obligations when it set-up Mrs Bs 
new policy and whether it shouldve told her there were other providers elsewhere who 
mightve been able to offer Flood Re protection. It needed to make sure it told her about any 
significant restrictions on the cover the policy offered, so she could make an informed choice 
about whether or not she wanted to go ahead with taking out the policy. It also needed to 
make sure it was suitable for her needs.
The key pieces of evidence Ive relied on in making my decision on this point are the phone 
calls between Mrs B and Lifesures adviser when the new policy was being set-up. Its clear 
Mrs B knew the policy didnt include flood cover. The adviser said early on: Theres no 
cover for flood. Mrs B responded: No need. She went on to explain that the sea had never 
come near to her home. The adviser reiterated a few times across both calls that flood cover 
wasnt included and Mrs B accepted this.
Mr G says Mrs Bs a vulnerable customer who doesnt understand financial services. Ive 
listened carefully to the calls. Mrs B seems to clearly understand that flood cover has been 
removed and the adviser stressed the implications of that removal. It appears Mrs Bs 
primary concerns were the price of the policy and remaining with Lifesure. She said Mr G 
had done a few online searches for new policies, but that she didnt want to change 
(brokers). The adviser also talked through what the policy offered at some length and Mrs B 
engaged with her and answered questions about her property. It suggests to me that Mrs B 
had at least sufficient understanding of the policy to make an informed decision about going 
ahead with taking it out.
Ive then turned to think about whether or not the policy was suitable for Mrs B and whether it 
was appropriate for Lifesure to recommend it to her. And I think it was suitable. It appeared 
to cover all of the things Mrs B said she thought she needed. Mrs B didnt think she needed 
flood cover. And the removal of this cover clearly didnt change her mind about going ahead 
with the policy.
But even if I thought the policy wasnt suitable, I need to think about what Mrs B most likely 
would otherwise have done and whether shes suffered any detriment. Lifesures said neither 
of the park home products it offered covered flood. So it wasnt able to offer her another 
policy. Mrs B had already told the adviser she didnt want to go elsewhere, even though Mr 
G had done a bit of looking around. 
So I think Mrs B wouldve likely still taken up the policy through Lifesure. After all, she didnt 
think she needed flood cover. And  she hasnt suffered any flood losses since taking out the 
policy. She couldve still made successful claims on the policy for the things that were 
covered. This means I dont think shes suffered any detriment that Lifesure needs to 
compensate her for.Overall, having considered everything, I think Lifesure administered Mrs Bs policy fairly. And 
so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman