DRN-3175877
The complaint
Mr K complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to decline his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr K was covered under his former employers group income protection scheme. The 
scheme would pay benefit if Mr K couldnt work in his occupation because of illness or injury. 
The scheme had a 26-week deferred period.
In December 2019, Mr K stopped work because of his mental health. He made a claim under 
the scheme. He also said that he experienced back pain in the deferred period. 
After consideration, Unum turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr K met the scheme 
definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr K brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Based on the medical evidence, 
she thought Unums decision to turn down Mr Ks claim had been reasonable. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, Mr K needs to show that he was incapacitated for the full 26-week 
deferred period. The policy terms explain that someone is incapacitated if theyre unable, by 
reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of their 
occupation. 
The deferred period was 21 December 2019 to 21 June 2020. Ive therefore considered the 
medical evidence during this period. 
Although Mr K stopped work in December 2019, he didnt seek medical help until he 
contacted his GP in March 2020. Mr K says he was struggling to function normally at the 
time, and thats why he didnt visit his GP. 
Mr K has explained that hes previously experienced problems with his mental health, and he 
returned to work in 2018 after having some time off due to depression and anxiety. He says 
hes struggled with his mental health ever since, and his GP was aware of this. 
Unfortunately, because Mr K chose not to seek medical help for some months, that means 
theres little medical evidence to support that there was a deterioration in his symptoms in 
December 2019 that meant he couldnt work at this time. As our investigator has said, its 
reasonable to expect someone to take steps to seek medical help, particularly if they felt 
their symptoms were preventing them from working. 
Mr K spoke with occupational health in February 2020. This was to establish whether he was 
fit to attend a disciplinary meeting at his workplace. The adviser said that Mr K had been 
very clear that the trigger for his absence was stress related due to the workplace issues he 
was experiencing. It was noted that Mr K was experiencing a variety of symptoms linked to 
anxiety and a stress reaction. Mr K told the adviser that he didnt think there was any benefit 
to counselling as the stressor was something outside his control. The occupational health 
adviser agreed with Mr K about this, and thought that until the workplace problems were 
resolved, Mr K would continue to experience his symptoms. The adviser concluded that Mr K 
wasnt fit for work.
When Mr K first spoke with his GP in March 2020, it was noted that he was having 
workplace problems, and that his mood was sometimes down as a result of this. The GP 
offered Mr K counselling/talking therapy, but Mr K didnt think this would be helpful as it was 
all linked to work.
In April 2020, Mr K told his GP hed been off work since December 2019 with work-related 
issues. Hed felt stress and anxiety at home, but was trying his best to cope.
Also in April 2020, Mr K told his GP he was experiencing back pain. It was noted this usually 
settled after one to two weeks, but this time it was in a specific area in his left hip/lumbar 
area. His GP advised him to do gentle exercise. I understand Unum spoke with Mr K in June 
2020, and he confirmed he wasnt having any treatment for his back pain, and was only 
taking painkillers when he really needed to.
Based on the available evidence, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr Ks 
absence was linked to workplace issues with his specific employer, rather than medical 
issues that were preventing him from performing his role. Mr K appears to accept that it was 
the workplace disputes that triggered his symptoms of stress and anxiety. The evidence 
supports that until the workplace problems were resolved, it was unlikely that hed be able to 
return to work. 
Whilst Mr K was experiencing back pain, the medical evidence doesnt show that this 
prevented him from working throughout the entire deferred period.
Overall, I agree with our investigator that the medical information doesnt support that Mr K 
met the scheme definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. Im therefore 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Unum to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman