DRN-3952329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) 
mis-sold them a Signature Current account in 2011. They say they were told that they had to 
have the account in order to obtain a specific mortgage product.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Ds complaint already and didnt think Clydesdale had 
mis-sold the packaged account. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs D have highlighted that they were not told that they could have a 
mortgage that did not require them to have a Signature account. If they believe that the 
advice received about the mortgage was incorrect this would need to be dealt with as a 
separate issue. To clarify this decision is only looking at whether the Signature account itself 
was sold incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about 
everything Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ds account was mis-sold. Let me explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs D have said they were told that they had to have the Signature account in order 
to get a specific mortgage product in 2011. I have looked at the mortgage offer and it does 
indeed mandate that Mr and Mrs D did have to open and maintain a Signature account for 
12 months as a condition of the mortgage offer. So I cant say that Mr and Mrs D were mis-
led about this.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that they did not need the benefits that the Signature account 
came with and therefore the advice they received to take out the account was unsuitable. I 
note though that they did use the breakdown cover, albeit some year later. But regardless of 
whether they could use the other benefits the Signature account allowed them to receive a 
refund of half of the £499 mortgage arrangement fee if they held the account for 12 months. 
As the Signature account cost £12.50 a month. This meant that in the first 12 months the 
account would actually save them money. So regardless of whether Mr and Mrs D could use 
the other benefits of the account, I dont think this account being recommended to them was 
inappropriate.
I note that Mr and Mrs D continued to hold the account after the 12-month period. But this 
was essentially their choice, as the mortgage offer made it clear that they did not have to 
hold the account for longer than 12 months. So in the circumstances, I cant reasonably hold 
Clydesdale responsible for this.
Mr and Mrs D say that the mortgage rate that they were offered was the same as rates that 
they could get with different products that did not require a Signature account and therefore 
they had no need to have a Signature account. But as I have already mentioned this would 
be about the mortgage advice they received, and not the advice to take out the Signature 
account and this would need to be dealt with separately. All I can consider is whether the 
Signature account was mis-sold considering that they were taking out a mortgage that 
specifically required them to take it out and for the reasons set out above I dont think that it 
was.
Mr and Mrs D may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that they havent benefitted 
from the account over time, or perhaps regret not downgrading their account to a fee-free 
account after the initial 12-month period. But this does not mean the account was mis-sold in 
the first place and overall, I dont think Clydesdale mis-sold the account.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D but for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman