DRN-2612485
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC  trading as Chartered Trust (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the single premium policy when he took out a hire purchase loan in 1982. The 
agreement included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H and Lloyds agree the policy was sold during a meeting in branch. During this meeting, 
Lloyds should have taken reasonable steps to make Mr H aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI. Mr H says he was told he had to take the PPI to secure the lending. 
In reaching my decision, Ive thought about Mr Hs comments alongside the very limited 
documents that have been provided. Ive also considered what I know about the way Lloyds 
sold these policies in general, to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
Mr H has provided a copy of the loan agreement. This sets out the cost of the PPI under the 
heading Optional Sickness & Accident cover. And in a separate section it provides further 
information about the policy and again mentions it is optional. In this section it asks for the 
name of the person who will be covered under the PPI. Mr Hs name has been written here. I 
think its likely Mr H would have seen this and any conversation he had with a Lloyds 
representative would have reflected this. I also think Mr H would have had the opportunity to 
question anything he wasnt sure of or hadnt agreed to before he signed the agreement. So, 
I think overall, its likely that Lloyds made it clear this was an optional policy and  at the time 
 Mr H chose to buy it.
Its not clear whether Lloyds made a personal recommendation or not. But given what we 
know about how Lloyds sold these types of policy at the time, I think its likely that Lloyds 
advised Mr H to take the PPI, so it should have taken reasonable steps to make sure it was 
right for him. From what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for 
Mr H. I say this because:
Nothing in what Mr H has told us leads me to think he wouldnt have been eligible for 
cover under the policy. 
Mr H says he would have got generous sick pay benefits. In our experience, most 
PPI policies would have paid out along side any employee benefits and would have 
allowed the employee benefits to pay for other things.  
Mr H says he had some savings at the time. But having the policy would have meant 
Mr H could have used his savings to pay for other essential costs if he was too 
unwell to work or became unemployed.   
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think there was anything that would have 
made it difficult for him to make a claim. For example, he didnt have any existing 
health concerns or unusual working patterns that werent covered by the policy. 
As far as Im aware the policy wasnt unaffordable for Mr H.    
Its not clear if Mr H would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if 
he cancelled the policy early. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought hed 
repay the loan early. So, I dont think even if Mr H would have only got a limited 
refund, this meant the policy wasnt right for him  or that better information about 
this wouldve stopped him buying it.
I dont know what information Lloyds gave Mr H about the policy but again in my experience, 
its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But  as Ive 
mentioned above - Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
And I think Lloyds could have explained the costs of the plan more clearly. The loan 
agreement didnt show how much interest would be incurred on the policy. But it looks like 
the missing cost information was for a reasonably low amount. And given how long the 
policy could have potentially paid out for, Mr H would have got back quite a bit more than he 
paid for it.
So even if Lloyds had given Mr H clearer, or more complete, information about the policy, I 
still think he wouldve taken it. And I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was right 
for him. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Lloyds 
mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman