DRN-1184174
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
During a phone call in 2004 Mrs W completed an application for a credit card with Barclays. 
At the same time she was sold a regular premium PPI policy to cover her credit card 
payments.
The cost of the PPI policy was £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. If Mrs W 
made a successful claim, the PPI policy would cover 10% of the outstanding monthly 
balance on her credit card. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the phone call the policy was optional and the policy wouldve suited her needs.
Mrs W disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs W was sold the PPI over the phone when she applied for her credit card. Barclays 
needed to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs W says this wasnt done. Mrs W cant 
remember how the policy was sold and hasnt given any detail as to why it wasnt clear the 
policy was optional. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So 
Ive relied more on what we know of how Barclays sold PPI and what is most likely to have 
happened.
While Barclays hasnt been able to provide us with a call recording of the sale it has provided 
a sales script it says its advisors wouldve followed. I can see from this that Mrs W wouldve 
been told about optional payment protection insurance and asked if she wanted to apply for 
PPI. I havent seen anything to suggest the sales script wasnt followed in Mrs Ws case so I 
think its likely PPI was discussed and it was added to Mrs Ws account because when 
asked, she agreed to take the cover. 
This was an advised sale. What this means is that Barclays not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs W could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W for the following reasons:
 
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs W says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
had savings she could use to make her credit card payments if she couldnt work. But 
the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered her credit card payments for 
up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. So I 
think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs W in her circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mrs W information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Barclays did give all of the information as it 
shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs W has told us 
about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W or 
refund any interest and charges applied to her credit card that may have been incurred 
because of those premiums.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W 
about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman