DRN-2736073
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance, a 
warranty and paint protection when she entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs H entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement (HP) for a used car 
with MotoNovo. At the same time Mrs H entered into a second credit agreement called 
HP+ agreement totalling £1,481. This was to cover the cost of GAP insurance, paint 
protection and a four-year warranty to cover the car.
In March 2020 Mrs H was considering paying off the HP agreement in full and she queried 
why she also had to pay off the HP+ loan amount. Mrs H said she hadnt agreed to take out 
those additional products when shed entered into to the HP agreement for the car. She 
complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo didnt uphold her complaint. It said that Mrs H had signed, both electronically and 
by hand, a number of documents that set out these products had been added to the 
agreement and, by signing, she had agreed to this. There was also a Demand and Needs 
Statement that had been completed in respect of the GAP insurance which MotoNovo said 
was evidence this had been discussed by the supplying dealer with Mrs H.
Mrs H was unhappy at MotoNovos decision and complained to this service. She said these 
additional products hadnt been explained to her, she hadnt agreed to take them out and in 
respect of the GAP insurance and warranty hadnt needed them as she already had cover in 
place.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She said 
although she appreciated that Mrs H felt strongly that she had been mis-sold these products, 
she had signed a number of documents including the vehicles sales invoice and the HP 
agreement that set out clearly these products had been added. Miss H had also signed and 
agreed to taking out the four-year warranty on the car. Our investigator said that it was 
reasonable to have expected Mrs H to query these products if she had been uncertain about 
why they had been included.
Our investigator said that due to the number of documents signed by Mrs H, she didnt think 
she could reasonably say Mrs H hadnt been aware these products had been added.
In regard to the GAP insurance and warranty which Mrs H said she didnt need, our 
investigator said that although Mrs H had car insurance and breakdown cover, she didnt 
have in place the protection offered by these two products. She said she didnt think Mrs H 
had shown she wouldnt need this cover. 
Mrs H disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she hadnt ordered any extra 
products as she hadnt needed them.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 the creditor, here thats MotoNovo, can 
be held liable for things said and done by the dealership during the pre-agreement 
negotiations. Mrs H says that the dealership didnt explain the additional products that were 
added when she agreed to purchase the car. She also says she wasnt aware shed entered 
into a HP+ agreement to cover their costs. Mrs H says it would be fair for the cost of these 
products to be removed from the outstanding balance on her account.
I dont know what was said between Mrs H and the dealership at the time she agreed to 
purchase the car and where information is missing or contradictory then I have to decide 
what I think is the most likely thing to have happened. And I think that its reasonable I take 
into account the paperwork that was prepared on the day Mrs H entered into the financial 
agreement 
Looking at both the pre-contract statement of information and the hire purchase agreement 
for the car, Ive seen these set out that there is a 60-month HP agreement for the car 
together with an additional credit loan for £1,480. I think these documents are clear as to the 
cost of the car, the amount of interest being applied to each of the agreements and their 
individual monthly cost. These documents were electronically signed by Mrs H. 
While I can appreciate Mrs H having some concerns about documents being electronically 
signed, this method isnt unusual and is accepted as a hand signature would be. However, 
Ive also seen that Mrs H signed a number of documents by hand as well. 
The Vehicle Sales Invoice sets out that Mrs H part exchanged a car, purchased another 
car together with GAP insurance, paint protection and a four-year warranty. The individual 
cost of the car and products are clearly shown. This same information is shown on the 
Vehicle Sales Order which again is hand signed
The dealership has provided a Demand and Needs document showing that GAP insurance 
was recommended to Mrs H so I think its reasonable to say there would have been some 
discussion about this product for this document to have been completed. Mrs H has then 
hand signed two agreements, one to take out the warranty and the other for the GAP 
insurance. Both of these documents state, above the place for the signature of the buyer, 
that by signing the document the terms and conditions for these products are accepted. The 
cost of each of these items is also clearly shown in these agreements.
I think its reasonable to say that due to the number of documents signed by Mrs H, both by 
hand and electronically, that she should have been aware the extra products had been 
added and she was entering into a HP+ agreement as well as the HP agreement for the 
car. I also think it was clear on the paperwork how much each of these products cost. 
I think that its reasonable to have expected Mrs H to have read all of these documents 
before she signed them. If she had queries as to why extra products had been added, then I 
think there would have been an opportunity to raise them with the dealership before signing 
and taking them out.
Mrs H says she didnt need these products, in particular she already had car insurance and 
breakdown cover in place. But both the GAP insurance and the warranty provided additional 
cover than that Mrs H already had. GAP insurance provides protection against financial loss if the vehicle is declared a total loss or write-off. And it isnt unusual for people to have both 
car insurance and GAP insurance because it provides added protection and peace of mind. 
The warranty also provides very different cover to breakdown cover as a warranty may cover 
costly repairs that the car may require and can provide additional reassurance when buying 
a used car. Again, having both a warranty and breakdown cover in place wouldnt be 
unusual. So, I dont think I can reasonably say that Mrs H has shown she has no need for 
either of these products.
I appreciate Mrs H feels strongly she didnt agree to these products being added, but looking 
at the evidence thats been provided, I think its more likely than not that these products were 
discussed with her by the dealership. I also cant say she wouldnt have been aware that 
shed agreed to purchase them. So, for the reasons given I dont think the GAP insurance, 
paint protection or warranty were mis-sold and Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman