DRN-2644478
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) 
handled their claim and the delays they experienced.  
What happened
In 2017, Mr R and Mrs R made a claim under their NHBC Buildmark policy for defects they 
noticed after moving into their new home.
Mr R and Mrs R felt the claim was handled poorly and that they experienced extensive 
delays, leaving them and their young child in an extremely uncomfortable, cold and damp 
home. They complained to NHBC, which then offered Mr R and Mrs R £500 compensation 
for its failings, particularly in relation to poor communication and the general handling of the 
claim. NHBC insisted that £300 it had offered previously was in relation to delays in its 
handling of the claim. But Mr R and Mrs R dispute this and say that payment was solely in 
relation to a plumbing leak.
Unhappy with the level of compensation offered for the delays and poor service theyd 
received, Mr R and Mrs R referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issues and during the course of the investigation, NHBC increased its offer of 
compensation to £1000 and our investigator agreed that this was a fair offer. Mr R and 
Mrs R disagreed. They didnt think this level of compensation accurately reflected the trouble 
and upset they experienced and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I should first like to point out that claims involving inherent defects in a 
property can take a considerable length of time to resolve. But, having considered the 
timeline of events, I agree that the level of service NHBC provided fell short of what Mr R 
and Mrs R quite rightly expected. NHBC should have offered more compensation than the 
£500 initially offered and I think £1000 is a fair and reasonable offer considering all the 
delays and the poor handling of the claim.
I say this because there were indeed numerous delays, in part caused by a case handler 
who was on long term sick leave, which led to queries not being responded to in a timely 
manner. There were also delays in contractors starting repair work and delays in the work 
being finalised. I think this wouldve heightened the distress and inconvenience Mr R and 
Mrs R experienced overall.
I appreciate Mr R and Mrs R have requested a higher level of compensation. But, having 
considered all the issues carefully, I cant fairly say that the length of time this claim took was 
mainly as a result of delays on NHBCs part. It is not for this service to compensate for all the 
inconvenience and distress that a claim of this nature can inevitably cause. And, having 
identified from the timeline of events and all the correspondence in this case which periods 
of time represent unavoidable inconvenience due to the nature of the claim itself and which 
periods of time represent delays that couldve been easily avoided by NHBC, I still consider 
that the offer of £1000 now made is reasonable.
Ive also considered carefully the submissions made by Mr R and Mrs Rs representative, 
and the suggestions made which Mr R and Mrs R feel would constitute a proper award for 
the extensive disruption caused to their family. However, the awards made or recommended 
by this service are not always in line with those that a court might make  and this is in part 
due to the free and informal nature of our service compared to the lengthy and often costly 
nature of court proceedings. 
Even so, when I consider Mr R and Mrs Rs length of time away from their home and the 
disruption caused to them, I believe £1000 to be a reasonable level of compensation which 
adequately reflects the difficulties they experienced that can fairly be attributed to errors 
made on NHBCs part. And I would like to assure Mr R and Mrs R that, though I appreciate 
they will be disappointed with my decision, an award of this nature is considered a 
substantial one in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, NHBC must pay Mr R and Mrs R £1000 in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require National House-Building Council 
to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman