DRN-4406837
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted irresponsibly in lending him a personal loan. 
He thinks it should have realised he had a gambling addiction which meant the loan was 
unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr J took out a personal loan with HSBC in March 2019, with whom he also has a current 
account. He borrowed £25,000 over a term of eight years. The monthly payment was £337.
Unfortunately, Mr J struggled to manage his repayments. The loan was defaulted in 
May 2022.
Mr J complained. He explained that he had been suffering from severe mental health issues 
which led to a gambling addiction. He thought that HSBC hadnt conducted sufficient 
affordability checks, as he thought it should have found signs of his gambling addiction. He 
explained that hed opened a second current account with a different bank a few months 
before, and had started using it to gamble. But he thought HSBC should have noticed the 
second current account on his credit file, and asked for further information about it.
Mr J is employed as the director of a limited company. During the loan application, he 
declared his net monthly income to be £2,151, with his annual income being £33,000. Mr J 
said he had been taking funds from the company account to fund his gambling addiction, 
and he thought HSBC should have picked up on this due to the transactions on his current 
account in the months leading up to the application.
In its final response, HSBC said it thought it had conducted proportionate checks  including 
asking Mr J about his income and expenditure, and considering the conduct of his HSBC 
current account for the three months prior to the application. It said it considered the loan 
payments to be sustainably affordable for him. It said it couldnt see evidence of significant 
gambling on his current account in the three months prior to the loan application, and it had 
no record hed made it aware of any mental health issues.
One of our case handlers looked into the complaint. She thought that HSBC should have 
asked some further questions of Mr J, but that even if they had it was unlikely he would have 
told them about the other account or the extent of his gambling.
Mr J disagreed. He said he was also making payments towards several mortgages, and he 
thought the payments on those accounts  along with the payments on his credit card 
accounts  might not have been up to date when he made the loan application. He thought 
HSBC should have questioned transfers into his current account from his business, and 
didnt think it had taken his living expenses into account when considering whether the loan 
was affordable for him.
As our case handler couldnt resolve things, the case comes to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and guidance on responsible lending set by the 
regulator, laid out in the consumer credit handbook (CONC). In summary, these say that 
HSBC needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
This was a significant amount of borrowing, taken out over a long period of time. So I would 
expect HSBC to conduct thorough checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to 
sustainably afford the monthly payment for the eight year term.
HSBC completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr J. Its told us it considered 
the information he provided against average figures from the Office of National Statistics. 
And it told us it considered the conduct of his current account for the three months prior to 
the application, to verify what Mr J told it about his income and expenditure.
HSBC also completed external credit checks to verify what Mr J had told them about his 
credit commitments elsewhere, and the conduct of those accounts. Mr J told us he thought 
some of his accounts might have been arrears at the time, but he has provided us with a 
copy of his credit file which shows all his accounts were up to date at the date of application.
When he applied for the loan with HSBC, Mr J had a loan elsewhere with a monthly payment 
of £66. He didnt declare any credit cards during the application. None are shown on the 
copy of his credit file hes provided, and I cant see any payments towards any credit cards 
on the bank statements Ive seen.
Mr J had several mortgages, but I can also see rental income being paid into his account. 
Mr J told us this was his partners income for properties in her name. This seems unlikely to 
me, as several mortgages are shown on his credit file and the rental income is being paid 
into a current account in his sole name. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to expect the 
mortgage payments were being covered by the rental income.
Having considered the statements for Mr Js current account with HSBC, they support that 
Mr J was receiving at least the amount of income he declared in the application, if not more 
given the rent he was receiving.
Mr J declared essential monthly living expenses of £1,629, and HSBC used a figure of 
£1,680 in its affordability assessment. I think this aligns with the information Ive seen on his 
bank statements. This meant Mr J had disposable monthly income of around £389, meaning 
the £337 monthly payment for the loan was affordable. So, Im satisfied HSBC took Mr Js 
living expenses into account when it considered the application.
Mr Js bank account with HSBC showed daily use, including for essential living expenses 
such as bills. So I dont think HSBC should reasonably have also asked him for copies of 
bank statements from any other accounts to help it determine whether the loan was 
affordable and sustainable.
The bank statements with HSBC show very limited gambling transactions in the three 
months prior to the loan application. The account was maintained within its limits during that 
period.
I dont think HSBC should reasonably have considered information from more than three months before the application when deciding whether or not to lend.
That said, HSBC has provided statement data from mid-October 2018. I can see Mr J made 
significant gambling transactions in October 2018. But, for the period of statements HSBC 
provided, the account generally didnt go overdrawn. When it did, Mr J promptly transferred 
in funds. Banks will not generally monitor their customers spending, as long as an account 
is kept within its agreed limits. As that was the case here, I dont think HSBC should have 
had cause for concern about Mr Js gambling  nor that the loan wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for him.
Mr J hasnt told us he made HSBC aware of the mental health issues hes experienced 
before he applied for the loan, and HSBC has no record he did so.
Mr J has also said he thinks HSBC should have queried the transactions being made from 
the account for his limited company, of which he is the director. On balance, I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to consider that Mr J was an appointed company director in good 
standing and he had appropriate grounds for transferring any funds from the limited 
company account. I dont think this should have caused HSBC concern.
Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the difficult time Mr J has experienced over the 
last few years. I dont doubt how distressing things have been for him. I agree with our 
Investigator that even if HSBC had asked him further questions about the conduct of his 
account, its unlikely he would have disclosed any information about his gambling addiction.
Overall, taking everything into account, I think HSBC conducted proportionate checks on 
Mr Js income and expenditure and had reasonable grounds to believe the loan would be 
affordable and sustainable for him. I dont think HSBC should reasonably have found signs 
that Mr J had issues with problem gambling.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Frances Young
Ombudsman