DRN-3999543
The complaint
Miss D complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA)s handling of her 
motor insurance claim.
All references to AA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I acknowledge our investigator said, and Miss D accepted, the settlement offered by 
AA was fair and in the region of what our service would expect to see. But for 
completeness, having reviewed the valuations set out in relevant trade guides Im 
satisfied the offer AA has made is within a reasonable range and is fair.
From reviewing everything, I can see there have been avoidable delays in the 
progression of Miss Ds claim. The claim was reported in February 2022 and repairs 
were authorised for the vehicle around two weeks later. However, it then took around 
six weeks for the vehicle to be booked in for repairs with a garage.
After investigations were complete, Miss Ds vehicle was declared a total loss but AA 
didnt offer a settlement figure to around three weeks later, and from reviewing 
matters Ive not seen anything that would have prevented AA in both instances from 
acting more quickly.
The terms in the policy say a courtesy car is provided during repairs, but I can see 
AA offered £200 compensation which it explains was for Miss D to forfeit the option 
of a courtesy car during repairs. 
However, in addition, Miss D was left without a vehicle for some time before the 
vehicle arrived in the garage. And as Ive set out above, I think there were avoidable 
delays in this progressing. As a result, Miss D says she incurred additional travel 
costs, of which Ive seen sufficient evidence, as well as the inconvenience of not 
being able to carry normal out day to day activities. So I do think Miss D has been 
impacted by AAs error.
AA accepted it provided poor communication and service. And I can see Miss D had 
to regularly chase for updates.
So, considering what Ive set out Im not minded to alter the compensation 
recommended by our investigator (an additional £200). I think the amount is in line 
with what I believe to be reasonable in the circumstances and fairly represents the 
inconvenience Miss D has been caused by AAs actions.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss D an additional 
£200, increasing compensation to a total of £400. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint.
To put things right I direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman