DRN-4181107
The complaint
Ms M has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit, acted 
irresponsibly when it provided her with a loan in 2017.
Backgroun
Ms M applied for a £2,000 loan with AvantCredit in January 2017. She has said that at the 
time of the application AvantCredit failed to run sufficient checks to ensure the loan was 
affordable. She has said that if it had it wouldve realised she couldnt afford the repayments 
and it wouldnt have provided her with the credit. As such she believes it acted irresponsibly 
when it gave her the loan. 
AvantCredit has said that at the time it did run affordability checks and that based on the 
information it gathered it believed the loan was affordable. So, it didnt uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. 
Unhappy with AvantCredits response Ms M brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint already. She found that the information AvantCredit 
relied on was incorrect and that it shouldve done more to verify Ms Ms financial 
circumstances. If it had she didnt think it wouldve given Ms M the loan as she didnt think it 
was affordable. So, she upheld the complaint. 
Ms M agreed with the investigators findings, but AvantCredit didnt and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions of our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. So, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
There are rules and regulations that businesses must adhere to when they provide credit to 
consumers. These include obligations around checking that any credit is affordable, and 
repayments will be sustainable throughout the term of the agreement. There are numerous 
different ways credit providers can do this, but it generally involves some form of income and 
expenditure check as well as reviewing supporting information like credit files, bank 
statements or payslips. 
When Ms M applied for her loan with AvantCredit it asked her to fill out an income and 
expenditure form in order to understand what her existing credit obligations were and what 
her monthly disposable income would be. This was done in order to allow it to assess 
whether or not she would be able to meet the monthly repayments until the loan was repaid. 
AvantCredit has said that some of the information regarding outgoings provided by the 
consumer was likely to be incorrect as it seemed unrealistically high. So, it reduced the 
amount of declared costs on certain areas such as utility bills. It also made the assumption 
that Ms M may have support paying these as she had a partner at the time of the 
application. So, it didnt rely on the information she provided and agreed to provide the credit 
based on edited amounts it didnt verify.
I dont think its appropriate for a lender to assume the information its been provided is 
incorrect without doing further checks. Looking at Ms Ms credit file I can see that in the year 
prior to this loan she had taken out multiple high-cost credit loans and had had a loan default 
just two months prior to this lending. So, I think there was sufficient evidence available to 
show Ms M was struggling to manage her finances effectively and this shouldve given 
AvantCredit reason to question whether or not she wouldve been able to sustain the 
repayments for this loan throughout the two-year term. 
Overall, I think there was sufficient evidence available at the time Ms M applied for this loan 
to show it wasnt affordable and that she would struggle to repay it. And I think if AvantCredit 
had properly verified the information it had received from Ms M at the point of application, 
and asked for some supporting evidence such as credit file or bank statements, it wouldve 
realised she was struggling to manage her finances and it wouldnt have given her the loan. 
So, Im upholding her complaint. 
Putting things right
To settle Ms Ms complaint AvantCredit of UK LLC should do the following:
Add up the total amount of Ms M received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Ms M made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Ms M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then AvantCredit of UK LLC should
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms M
Once the loan has been settled, AvantCredit should remove any negative information 
recorded on Ms Ms credit file regarding the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit of UK LLC to take off tax from this interest.
AvantCredit of UK LLC must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Ms Ms complaint against AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
trading as AvantCredit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman