DRN-3372292
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with a claim 
under his home insurance policy for damage to a laptop.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr M contacted Admiral to lodge a claim under the contents section of his 
home insurance policy for damage to a laptop. Drink had been spilled, so it wouldnt turn on. 
Admiral accepted the claim and their repairer (S) repaired the laptop, replacing the logic 
board and casing.
 
A few months later, there was a problem with the display on the laptop, which was replaced 
under warranty. But in October 2021 the laptop again wouldnt turn on. Mr M contacted 
Admiral, saying he thought the previous repair hadnt been carried out properly. But Admiral 
said the problem was due to new damage, so Mr M would have to make a fresh claim.
 
Unhappy at Admirals position, he complained to them. But they didnt uphold the complaint. 
In their final response they said when the laptop was returned a third time, S found traces of 
liquid damage on the main logic board and the underside of the top case. Because of liquid 
ingress, the screen needed further replacement. Based on the previous repair schedules, 
Admiral didnt agree this would be a warranty claim. If Mr M wanted to claim for the damage, 
it would mean a new claim, needing validation. But Admiral accepted that having previously 
been told his complaint was being upheld (only for the decision to be overturned) it would 
have caused frustration to Mr M. In recognition, Admiral awarded an additional £100 
compensation on top of the earlier award of £50.
Mr M then complained to this service, unhappy at Admirals response. He didnt think the 
damage was fresh and liquid hadnt been spilled on the laptop. He wanted Admiral to 
replace the laptop (preferably) or to refund the £300 excess hed previously been charged 
(or to refund his policy premiums).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to take any 
action. She thought the reports from S supported the conclusion that the laptop had suffered 
further damage, not a faulty repair.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, Mr M said he didnt agree with Admirals view that the damage was 
new and that they didnt have any evidence to support their view. Mr M said that it was 
existing damage that Admiral had failed to fix on the first and second repairs. He was also 
unhappy that Admiral had also not returned his laptop (which also made it impossible for him 
to obtain his own evidence on the cause of the damage).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Mr M.
Id first want to reassure Mr M (given his concerns about the evidence Admiral have provided 
to this service as part of our investigation) that Ive carefully considered all the information 
and evidence available in this case, including the technical reports from S. Ive also 
considered what Mr M has told us. Having done so, Ive concluded that Admiral have acted 
fairly and reasonably. I know Mr M will be disappointed by my conclusion, so Ill set out why 
Ive come to my view.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint is the reason for his laptop not working (for a third time, 
following two earlier repairs). Mr M maintains it was because of existing damage that Admiral 
hadnt repaired in the previous two repairs. Admiral maintain that the damage is new, so 
would have to be the subject of a fresh claim. The only evidence Ive seen that directly 
comments on the reason for the laptop failing for a third time is Ss report. Given this, Ive 
included the key passage from the report:
This time our engineers located traces of liquid damage on the main logic board and 
the underside of the top case. This is new damage as the main board had no liquid 
damage previously and also the top case had been replaced on the first inspection 
and repair. Therefore this is new damage. Further to this the trackpad and flex cable 
are corroded, meaning this has happened some time ago. Lastly the screen would 
need to be replaced due to liquid ingress also, which has been replaced twice up to 
this point. As such this is new damage and should be treated as a new claim.
As this comes from the repairer whove inspected the laptop, then Im not able to dispute 
what theyve said. I recognise Mr M disputes Ss conclusion, but in the absence of any other 
evidence to support his view I cant say that Admirals position is unreasonable.
 
Ive also considered that they havent declined to repair the laptop (or replace it, should that 
prove to be necessary). Theyve said they will consider it as a new claim, which they would 
assess under their standard claims procedure. I recognise what Mr M has said about no 
longer having a policy with Admiral, but I dont think that would preclude him making a claim 
as the further damage would (as I understand it) have occurred whilst he had his policy with 
Admiral. I dont think this is an unreasonable position for Admiral to take.
Ive also considered Admirals award of compensation. From the case notes provided by 
Admiral, I can see that there was an error is sending a response to Mr Ms complaint that 
(wrongly) said they were upholding the complaint. While that was unfortunate, I think in 
recognising the distress and inconvenience the error would have caused Mr M (by 
increasing the amount of compensation) I think Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably.
Taking all these points together, I dont think Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how theyve treated Mr M. I think their award of £150 in compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman