DRN-1503614
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to withdraw cover under 
their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mrs P as she has done most of the 
correspondence in relation to her claim and complaint. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
very brief overview of the key events here.  Mrs P had the benefit of insurance for certain 
legal expenses which was provided by Amtrust. The policy started on 20 November 2017.
In 2018 Mrs P made a claim to Amtrust  she was seeking legal assistance for disability 
discrimination and a personal injury claim in relation to a dispute with her employer. The 
claim was accepted and progressed until 1 April 2019. At this point a senior manager at 
Amtrust reviewed the claim and discovered that theyd made an error. 
Amtrust say theyd mistakenly recorded the incident date incorrectly. They realised Mrs Ps 
claim arose from events that pre-dated the policy and so they wouldnt provide any further 
cover. By this stage Mrs P was being represented by her own solicitor R. R contested 
Amtrusts interpretation of the date of incident and a complaint was raised. 
Amtrust maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that Amtrust had made 
an error. But he felt theyd acted fairly in the circumstances and that they didnt need to do 
more to resolve the complaint. Mrs P disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I wont 
repeat all the reasoning our investigator gave, but instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
Mrs Ps policy says: There is no cover for where (a) the insured incident began to start or 
had started before you bought this insurance or (b) You should reasonably have known 
when buying this insurance that the circumstances leading to a claim under this insurance 
already existed.
Insured incident is given a specific definition in the policy which says: The incident or the 
first of a series of incidents, which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Any actions, 
incidents or events that are linked by cause or time shall be classed as one insured incident. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents 
or events that are related by cause or time.
Terms like this are common in this kind of insurance and I dont think they are inherently 
unfair. Amtrust are setting out that there is cover for a dispute that arises within the period of 
insurance, but not those that had started before the policy or those where the policyholder 
reasonably could have foreseen the dispute. 
I appreciate that Mrs P feels very strongly that her legal action is specifically related to the 
events that took place in 2018 when her policy was already in place. Ive looked at notes 
made in October 2017 of a conversation between Mrs P and her professional body / union. 
These notes say: the matter could be viewed as a constructive dismissal situation, 
however I made it very clear to the member that claims such as these are very difficult to 
succeed with and there is no guarantee that the [union] legal department will support any 
such claimThe member advised that following discussions with her husband she is 
strongly considering resigning from her post If the member does choose to resign, I 
advised that she would need to provide me with a timeline of the events that have occurred 
and have made her feel less favourably treated On receipt of this and following the 
members resignation, I will then pass this on to the [unions] legal department to gain a view 
as to whether there is a claim for constructive dismissal or not.
I think this makes very clear that in October 2017 there was a dispute between Mrs P and 
her employer and that legal action was potentially being considered. Mrs P was considering 
resigning and claiming constructive dismissal.  The policy with Amtrust started in November 
2017  the month after those notes were made. Based on this I think Mrs P reasonably 
should have known that the circumstances leading to her claim already existed when she 
bought the policy. And as such, I dont think Amtrusts decision to withdraw any further cover 
(on the basis of the term quoted about) when they realised their mistake was unfair.
Amtrust set out further reasons why they thought the claim pre-dated the policy. And our 
investigator agreed with those reasons. Im satisfied the claim can be fairly declined (and in 
the circumstances here  cover withdrawn) on the basis of the term quoted above. So there 
is no merit in further discussing the other reasons referred to.
Clearly, it would have been better all-round if Amtrust hadnt made their error. But they did 
fund some legal work for Mrs P during the period before they realised the mistake. So Mrs P 
has had some benefit that she wasnt strictly entitled to under the policy. And looking at 
everything as a whole, I dont think Amtrust need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
I have a lot of sympathy with Mrs Ps position and I can understand the last few years must 
have been incredibly difficult for her.  Id like to make clear that this in no way is a 
commentary on her underlying legal dispute. Im solely looking at the actions of the insurer, 
Amtrust. And as Im satisfied that theyve acted fairly here, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman