DRN-3039277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mishandled their ISA application 
which caused them to miss out on the tax benefits for the 2020/2021 tax year.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs L say they were not told that Mrs L wouldnt be able to open an ISA 
account if she was not existing customer of HSBC. However, the ISA transfer form 
signed by Mrs L states You must have an HSBC current account to open or transfer 
into a cash ISA. This is set out at the top of the application form, so Im satisfied the 
eligibility criteria was made clear to Mrs L, although I appreciate that the HSBC 
wealth and relationship manager could have advised her of this requirement. 
However, HSBC have offered £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this, which I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances.   
Mr and Mrs L submit that HSBC ought to have told Mrs L sooner that she was not 
eligible to open the account. However, HSBC didnt receive Mrs Ls ISA application 
until 30 March 2021. They responded within two days on 1 April 2021 explaining that 
a bank account was needed in order to open the account, which I think is a 
reasonable amount of time, and I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have 
corresponded by post; there was no requirement or obligation on them to have called 
Mrs L in these circumstances. 
It was also Mr and Mrs Ls decision to apply at the point that they did, which left them 
with only a few days before the end of the tax year and very little room for delays and 
application processing time. So I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold HSBC liable for Mrs L missing out on the tax benefits she wouldve obtained 
from an ISA, as it seems likely she wouldve had enough time to open an account 
elsewhere if shed applied sooner. I therefore do not agree that HSBC should have to 
cover their loss of tax benefits.  
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L. But in the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that the £100 compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable, and 
proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused. So I do not consider any 
further award to be warranted. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have made an offer to pay £100.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs L (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of 
receiving their acceptance of this decision.
Mr and Mrs L should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties, and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for 
additional compensation. If, however, they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr and Mrs L and HSBC as to whether the 
£100 offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman