DRN-3692371
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about problems she experienced with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) when she tried to withdraw from some of her investments.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs B called NS&I as she wanted to make withdrawals from her accounts  
the Income Bond account and the Direct Saver account. During the call Mrs B failed some of 
the security questions to allow for the withdrawals and was to be sent an application for a 
new temporary password. After Mrs B experienced further issues, she complained to NS&I 
on 19 October. 
Two payments were made later in November  £83,000 for the Direct Saver account and 
£120,049.15 for Income Bond account.
In its response to Mrs Bs complaint NS&I said:
When Mrs B called NS&I on 16 October she successfully answered its security 
questions to change her nominated bank account details. She then went onto to try 
to withdraw from her account which prompted two further security questions. These 
were incorrectly answered five times. As a result, a temporary password was to be 
ordered for Mrs B to reset the security on her account and regain access. 
NS&I explained that after Mrs B initially set up the security questions on her account 
NS&I had no access to it so it couldnt know why Mrs B failed to access her account 
on 16 October. 
When Mrs B called again the temporary password that had been ordered for her had 
been mistakenly suspended. NS&I apologised for this and to put the matter right, 
arranged for £50 to be sent to her bank account.
Mrs B had since reset the security for her account and after NS&I received a 
withdrawal form from her on 12 November, a payment was sent her to nominated 
account on 16 November for her Direct Saver account and a full closure payment on 
17 November for her Income Bond account. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the outcome to her complaint and brought it this service. 
Our investigator who looked into the complaint wrote to Mrs B. She briefly outlined what had 
happened and passed on NS&Is offer that it had made in its submission to this service in 
order to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
In the submission NS&I said the temporary password ordered on 16 October was incorrectly 
suspended on 22 October. Mrs B said she rang on 26 October to activate the temporary 
password which she discovered she couldnt do. It said that if Mrs B had been able to 
activate the temporary password and request both withdrawals, she would have received the 
funds on 28 October. In recognition of this NS&I offered;
For loss of interest on the Direct Saver account from 28 October to 16 November on 
£83,000 at 7.00% (8.00% minus Direct Saver rate at the time of 1.00%) it offered 
£318.36.
For the loss of interest on the Income Bond account from 28 October to 17 
November on £120,000 at 6.85% (8.00% minus Income Bond rate at the time of 
1.15%) it offered £472.93.
It also offered an apology and a further £100 goodwill payment for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs B had had a significant change in her health and hadnt been able to review NS&Is offer 
so in light of this the investigator considered the complaint more fully and whether NS&Is 
offer was fair. After further correspondence with the parties the investigator wrote again in 
more detail to Mrs B with her opinion of the complaint. She said;
when Mrs B had called NS&I on 16 October she had passed security to change her 
nominated bank account details as she wanted to make a withdrawal from her 
Income Bond account. To make that withdrawal Mrs B had to answer two further 
security questions which Mrs B failed on five occasions and her account was 
suspended. 
The investigator explained that when Mrs B had set up her account online in 2015 
she had given NS&I her own password and answers to security questions. These 
were then encrypted by NS&I so they couldnt be seen by anyone. As a result, NS&I 
couldnt say why the answers Mrs B had given to the security questions on 16 
October werent accepted. 
After this, a temporary password was ordered but was accidently cancelled by NS&I 
for which it had apologised and paid £50 into Mrs Bs bank account. After Mrs B had 
reset the security on her account and NS&I had received a withdrawal form on        
12 November the money was paid out from her Direct Saver and Income Bond 
accounts on 16 and 17 November. 
As the call recording from 16 October wasnt available any longer the investigator 
considered whether it was likely that Mrs B didnt pass the security questions. And 
she concluded that the answers Mrs B had given were not exactly the same as were 
recorded on NS&Is recorded. 
She gave the example of an answer being Christmas rather than Xmas which 
wouldnt match even though a factually correct answer. She concluded that NS&I 
would likely have taken care in recording Mrs Bs responses knowing they would be 
encrypted and that it was reasonable to assume that Mrs B may have forgotten the 
exact format during the five years since she had set them up. She couldnt hold NS&I 
responsible for Mrs B not being able to make a withdrawal on 16 October as the 
security questions werent passed. 
NS&I acknowledged the cancellation of the temporary password Mrs B was sent was 
done in error. Mrs B had called NS&I on 26 October and found that the password 
wasnt valid. NS&I said that as Mrs B would have made the withdrawals from her 
Income Bonds and Direct Saver accounts on that date she should have received the 
funds on 28 October.
The investigator checked NS&Is historic interest rates for both types of account, and 
these remained the same from 1 October 2018 to 24 November 2020  1.15% on the 
Income Bond account and 1% on the Direct Saver account. The investigator was 
satisfied that as Mrs B received her funds before 24 November 2020 the rates she 
received werent impacted by the reduction when the funds were withdrawn on what should have been 28 October. 
This service would normally recommend that interest be paid at a rate of 8% for the 
time a consumer had been out of pocket. In this case Mrs B had already received 
1.15% and 1% on the Income Bonds and Direct Saver accounts for any time after   
28 October  when she should have received her funds  to the dates she actually 
received her funds. So, the investigator thought it was fair for NS&I to give Mrs B the 
difference in interest she received on the funds in her accounts up to 8% for the 
period she was out of the money. 
Mrs B had said her creditworthiness had been questioned. The investigator couldnt 
find anything to show this except for an identity check with a credit reference agency 
when trying to reset Mrs Bs password over the phone. The investigator thought NS&I 
was trying to help Mrs B by doing this, and while she accepted the mention of a credit 
check could be worrying, this should not have any impact on Mrs Bs 
creditworthiness or credit score. 
Mrs B said during the call she had with NS&I on 16 October she was told that she 
had been speaking with it for an hour and her account was logged off and couldnt be 
accessed again. The investigator said this must have been frustrating for Mrs B if this 
was the case but hadnt seen anything to show this. 
The investigator thought the total of £150, the £50 already paid to Mrs Bs account 
and the further £100 NS&I offered, was fair.  
Mrs B responded by saying the distress had been caused solely by NS&I. And she wanted 
to hear the call recording of 16 October which she considered was evidence for NS&I as well 
as herself. She said NS&I were prevaricating. 
Mrs B said the crux of her complaint was about the non-acceptance of the responses she 
gave to the security questions. Mrs B disputed they were incorrect, and NS&I werent able to 
show the answers it had recorded so couldnt provide any evidence that supported its case. 
Mrs B said she felt her integrity was being challenged. If she was involved in something 
fraudulent that should have been checked when she opened her account and not just when 
she wanted to withdraw funds. And any money would be sent to her bank account where 
she had banked for decades. She was the person entitled to give instruction on her account 
and NS&I wasnt being placed in breach of the law.
Mrs B remained unhappy with the outcome as she felt the stress of what happened directly 
resulted in her medical issues and her being hospitalised. Because of this she didnt think 
the offer made by NS&I was high enough even though she didnt have a figure in mind. 
A second of our investigators reviewed the case and didnt think anything Mrs B had said 
changed her view of the complaint. She reiterated that answers to security questions had to 
be exactly as set up by Mrs B and encrypted by NS&I. NS&I didnt have any discretion in the 
answers Mrs B had given. There wasnt any evidence of a mistake by NS&I with the security 
questions so she wouldnt be asking it to make a payment as an apology. 
But the investigator did reconsider what the payment it had offered was for. She clarified that 
NS&I accepted the delay in the transfer of funds (received by Mrs B on 16 and 17 November 
rather than around 28 October) because the temporary password it had sent had been 
cancelled in error. Because of that it had made the offer to make up the interest Mrs B 
missed out on which the investigator thought was fair and in-line with what the Financial 
Ombudsman would recommend. The investigator hadnt seen any evidence to show that the delay alone directly caused or 
exacerbated Mrs Bs medical condition, so she thought the amount offered was broadly fair. 
NS&I was able to provide a recording of the call of 16 October, but Mrs B didnt have the 
facility to listen to it, so NS&I arranged for a transcript to be sent to her. Mrs B had concerns 
that some words were missing from the transcript as her notes about the call suggested it 
had been edited. The investigator said there was no reason for her to think that was the case 
and the investigator would need to be given more information or evidence about that in order 
to change her mind. 
As the complaint could not be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that I am sorry to hear about Mrs Bs deterioration in her health. And Id like 
to thank her for her efforts in bringing her complaint which I am sure must have been trying 
and difficult for her at times, particularly more recently. 
The security questions
Mrs B has said she considers the crux of her complaint to be about the responses she gave 
to the security questions she answered on 16 October 2020. 
Ive listened to that call and while I dont know the exact answers to Mrs Bs security 
questions as set up by Mrs B and subsequently encrypted by NS&I, that call has given me 
insight into what went wrong when Mrs Bs answered those questions. All the questions 
revolved around five set questions  and responses  such as the name of Mrs Bs first pet, 
her first school etc. 
Of the first set of three questions Mrs B failed the first two attempts but passed on the third. 
And for the second batch, Mrs B failed all five sets of questions and her account was locked 
as a result. I note that Mrs B does say during the call that she was unsure how she would 
have answered the questions when she set them up years earlier. 
As one example of how the answers didnt match what was held by NS&I, in response to the 
name of her first boss, Mrs B answered in two different ways over the course of the security 
questions. In response to the first time she was asked she used his title and surname only 
and for another she used his title, first name and surname.  So, while the answers were no 
doubt factually correct, the format given by Mrs B didnt match the encrypted answers held 
by NS&I. 
NS&I has explained to us that once a password or security answer had been entered onto its 
systems, they become encrypted so that no-one can decipher that information. Therefore, it 
was unable to see why the failures occurred on Mrs Bs account. The only thing that was 
known for sure was that Mrs B failed to pass all of the relevant security questions. NS&I says 
there wasnt a fault on its system. 
Mrs B said she feels as though this was the crux of her complaint, and that being the case, I 
cant agree with her recollection that she answered the questions correctly as evidenced by 
the answers Mrs B gave that I have referred to above. Its clear that the responses Mrs B 
gave to the questions varied  albeit the answer being factually correct  but not in the 
format as set up by Mrs B at the outset and as recorded with NS&I. I would expect NS&I to have rigorous security in place for all transactions and particularly for 
a high value payment as in Mrs Bs case. While I appreciate that Mrs B was frustrated by 
the process, I cant find that NS&I didnt act correctly by suspending the account when Mrs B 
failed those security questions. 
The temporary password
When Mrs B failed the security questions her account was locked, and Mrs B was to be sent 
a new temporary password that would be with her between three and five days later. This 
was sent to Mrs B on 19 October and Mrs B said that when she called NS&I on 26 October, 
she discovered the temporary password wasnt valid. If the password had been valid, and 
like NS&I, I think it most likely Mrs B would have gone ahead with the withdrawals from her 
account and received the funds around 28 October. 
This was frustrating for Mrs B as she couldnt go ahead with the withdrawals from her 
accounts. NS&I has recognised this and already paid Mrs B £50 for the upset caused. I dont 
make any further finding on this as NS&I has agreed it was at fault, apologised and made a 
further offer of payment in recognition of this which I think is fair. 
Putting things right
The current offer, and is it fair?
As explained by the investigator, when we find that a consumer has been out of pocket, we 
recommend that interest be paid on the outstanding sum at a rate of 8% for the time the 
consumer hasnt had use of the money. 
In this case Mrs B did receive the withdrawal proceeds, albeit later than she should have 
done. And upon payment of the proceeds the funds included the interest that had been paid 
on the account, 1.15% for the Income Bond account and 1% for the Direct Saver account 
(the interest on the Income Bond account was paid into the Direct Saver account). So to be 
in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service would usually award, I would expect 
NS&I to make up the difference between the interest rates that the withdrawal amounts had 
already attracted, compared to the 8% I would expect to see for the time Mrs B was out of 
pocket. 
When making its offer, NS&I has already taken this loss of interest into account. So, 8% less 
1.15% for the Income Bond account and 8% less 1% for the Direct Saver account. I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable.
NS&I has already credited Mrs Bs bank account with £50 for the inconvenience caused by 
the incorrect cancellation of the temporary password. It has subsequently offered an 
additional £100 because of this. And on the face of it I think thats a fair award as a reflection 
of the upset Mrs B was caused.
Mrs B has said any award should be higher as she says the stress she was caused had a 
direct impact on her poor health and caused her to be hospitalised. Im very sorry to hear 
about Mrs Bs poor health but I cant find a link between NS&Is failings  which I have only 
found to be the cancellation of the temporary password in error  and her worsening health. 
So, while no doubt the whole episode has been upsetting for Mrs B, I dont find that NS&I 
was at fault when suspending Mrs Bs account when she didnt answer the security 
questions correctly. And I dont have anything to suggest that NS&Is error in cancelling the 
temporary password on 19 October 2020 was the cause of her health to fail in mid-2021.   It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint any further than NS&I has already offered to 
put right. I appreciate that this is not the outcome Mrs B was looking for, but I hope I have 
been able to explain how and why Ive reached the conclusion that I have. It is now for Mrs B 
to decide whether to accept or reject the offer made by NS&I. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  National Savings and Investments should put the matter right 
and pay redress to Mrs B as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman