DRN-2916292
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt provide him with the documentation he 
requested. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with Lloyds. At the end of 2020 he was offered a new job. As part of 
the job offer, he was required to provide a bank statement to his new employer. So he went 
into a branch of Lloyds and requested this. Lloyds provided the statement.
On receipt of the statement Mr Hs new employer said it required a verified copy. Mr H went 
back to the branch but he was told that wasnt something Lloyds could provide, except in 
specific circumstances. Mr H didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said he had 
previously worked for the bank and knew it was able to provide verified statements.
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. It said while it may have provided verified statements in 
the past, that isnt its current process. It suggested Mr H go to a solicitors to get the 
statement verified instead.
Mr H wasnt happy with this. He said the new employer subsequently withdrew the offer of 
employment which meant Lloyds had caused him to lose out on the job. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She said shed seen 
evidence that Lloyds had correctly followed its processes, so she didnt think it had acted 
unfairly by not providing a verified statement. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, its the role of this service to look at whether the business has 
done something wrong, and if we find it has, consider what it should do to put things right.
In this case I can see that Mr H hasnt been able to obtain a verified statement from Lloyds 
when he requested one. And he says this has caused him to lose out on a job he had been 
offered. 
Lloyds has provided us with information about its processes in relation to providing verified 
documents. And I can see that it only verifies documents on behalf of the bank for internal 
purposes and doesnt provide these to customers. So Im satisfied that it has correctly 
followed its process in this case, so it hasnt done something wrong here. 
Mr H has said that he used to work for Lloyds, so knows that it is able to provide these 
documents. While I understand this would make the situation more frustrating for Mr H, I can 
only look at Lloyds processes that are in place at the time the issue arose. So while Lloyds 
may have followed different processes in the past, Ive seen enough to show that it has 
correctly followed its current processes. 
I understand this has been a distressing time for Mr H, as he has missed out on a job. 
However in my review I can only consider the actions of Lloyds. And having done so, I cant 
say its done anything wrong here. So for that reason I dont think it has treated Mr H unfairly 
and I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman