DRN-1633935
 
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1997, Mr M applied for a Halifax credit card in a branch meeting. At the same time, Halifax 
sold him PPI to protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Halifax had to make it clear to Mr M that it was optional. He says 
he cant recall it being discussed. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms signed credit card application 
form which included a box that was marked to indicate he wanted PPI. 
On balance, I think it likely PPI was selected following a discussion about it between the 
adviser and Mr M. I believe Halifax would have made it clear the PPI was optional and that 
Mr M agreed to have it. But its understandable if he doesnt remember that now after all this 
time.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M. So, Halifax had to look in to whether the policy 
was right for Mr M. From what Ive seen I cant say that Halifax took all the steps it should 
have. But, I think the PPI was right for Mr M in any case because, for example:
Based on my understanding of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, hed have been 
eligible for the PPI. And, while the PPI likely had certain exclusions to, or limits on, 
the cover, I cant see that hed have been significantly affected by them. I note he 
was self-employed but I dont believe that made it materially more difficult for him to 
claim than if hed been employed.  
Mr M wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for 
up to 12 months per disability claim. It covered him for unemployment too. I 
recognise he had savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to retain them or use 
them towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. Overall, I think the 
PPI provided him with useful additional protection.Theres nothing to suggest the premium was unaffordable for Mr M. And the PPI was 
flexible in that Mr M could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he 
decided he no longer wanted it.
 
Halifax also should have given Mr M enough information for him to make up his own mind 
about whether the PPI was right for him. I dont know that it did that but, for the same 
reasons I think the PPI was right for Mr M, I dont believe better information about it would 
have put him off taking it.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But Halifax 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Halifax should also pay back to Mr M 
any extra interest he paid because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference between 
what Mr M owes and what hed have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Halifax plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman