DRN-1972816
 
The complaint
Mr Zs complaint is about the way PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA have handled his claim 
for an item that was not as described.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied Mr Z sent the item back to the address given to him by 
PayPal. His receipt is dated close to the event and clearly shows the name of the 
building and postcode which was given by PayPal. As such, Mr Z couldnt do 
anything more to show he posted the item to the correct address.
The postage providers tracking data shows the item was delivered to a different 
address. But PayPal hasnt shown evidence that it tried to investigate why the item 
was delivered to a different address to that shown on the receipt. And it now says the 
information is no longer available on the postage providers website. So the claim 
should be assessed on the evidence available which shows Mr Z posted the item to 
the correct address. 
PayPal says Mr Z may have claimed from the postal provider and received money. 
But Ive seen no evidence of this, and PayPal hasnt provided anything to support this 
allegation. So based on what I have seen I think Mr Zs claim should succeed.
Mr Z was required to submit a number of documents and sent many emails to PayPal 
before it made a goodwill gesture. Based on what Ive seen, PayPal could have been 
more pro-active in investigating the issue and listening to Mr Z here, so I think it 
should compensate Mr Z £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Zs 
complaint, PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should:
Pay Mr Z the £250 claimed;
Pay Mr Z £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 

Dan Prevett
Ombudsman