DRN-2310558
The complaint
Mr A has complained that TSB Bank plc wrongly registered an entry against his name on a 
fraud prevention database following an application he made for a mortgage. To settle the 
complaint Mr A wants the entry removed and for the bank to pay compensation.
What happened
In 2017 Mr A applied for a mortgage with TSB, but the application was declined. Later, Mr A 
learned that TSB had registered information against him with the Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS). Mr A complained to TSB, which declined to remove the entry. 
The bank said it would reconsider if Mr A was able to provide the bank with P60s for the 
previous three years, or a letter from HMRC confirming his income.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response, Mr A referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at what had happened. Mr A provided a letter from 
HMRC confirming his income. TSB has now agreed to remove the CIFAS markers, but has 
declined to pay any compensation.
The investigator thought it was fair that the marker was now removed, but didnt think TSB 
had done anything wrong in registering it in the first place. Consequently she didnt think 
there was any basis on which TSB was required to pay compensation.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive received some evidence in confidence  and our rules allow for this. Ive 
reviewed everything Mr A and TSB have said. Having done so, Im satisfied that TSB had 
reasonable grounds to register information against Mr A with CIFAS. The registration was in 
accordance with CIFASs standards of proof. Given this, I dont think TSB acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it registered the information against Mr A.
The entry has now been removed, after Mr A provided the proof of income, verified by 
HMRC, that the bank required. Im satisfied there is no basis on which TSB was under any 
obligation to remove the entry without this confirmation.
Given that Im satisfied the entry was fairly registered, Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable to order TSB to pay any compensation for trouble and upset. I appreciate 
Mr A will be disappointed, but overall Im satisfied that the banks actions were appropriate at 
the time, given the information it had available to it about Mr As circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman