DRN-2967243
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Zenith Insurance plc gave her wrong information about the charges to 
cancel her pet insurance policies.
Mrs D will see that she is now the sole complainant rather than a joint complainant with her 
husband. As she is the sole policyholder for both policies she is the correct complainant.
Mrs D will also see that my decision is about a different business than our investigator 
referred to in her correspondence. Zenith is the insurer of the policies and ultimately 
responsible for any premium refund so it is the correct business for my decision to be about. 
My references to Zenith include its agents which includes the business our investigator 
referred to. Those changes havent affected the outcome of this decision.
What happened
Mrs D had separate pet insurance policies, insured by Zenith, for her two dogs who Ill refer 
to as S and K. She paid for the policies by monthly instalments. On 3 December 2019 Mrs D 
spoke to Zenith to cancel the two policies. She told Zenith shed found much cheaper 
alternative insurance.
During the call Zenith told Mrs D that as she was cancelling the policies mid-term she would 
need to repay a claim of about £76 made on S policy. Zenith said there was no outstanding 
payments for Ks policy, but an administration fee may apply on the cancellations and it 
would write to clarify. Mrs D cancelled the policies in the 3 December call and paid £76 to 
repay the claim on S policy.
On 4 December 2019 Zenith wrote to Mrs D saying there were outstanding balances on both 
policies that she needed to pay.
For S policy Zenith said Mrs D still needed to pay £73.52. Zeniths final response letter of 
February 2020 clarified that amount was the £30 administration fee and £43.52 outstanding 
premium for cover 25 November to 3 December 2019.
For Ks policy Zenith said Mrs D needed to repay £212.07 for claims for K in the policy year. 
Zeniths final response letter said claims totalling £301 had been made so under the policy 
terms as a claim was made within the policy year the remaining full premium became due. It 
said as the remaining premium came to less than the claims it wanted the £212.07. It hadnt 
charged an administration fee on Ks policy.
Mrs D complained saying in the call Zenith told her there would only be the £76 claim 
repayment and administration fee to cancel both policies.
Zenith accepted it hadnt told Mrs D about the charges for Ks policy. To apologise it wrote 
off the £73.32 remaining on S policy and £50 from the outstanding balance on K's policy, 
which left £162.07 for Mrs D to pay.
Mrs D complained to us. She said:
Zenith had given her misleading information in the call and she couldnt access the 
policy documents on line to read the terms to make an informed decision about 
cancelling
she wouldnt have cancelled the policies if Zenith had given her correct information 
when she called to cancel
she wants Zenith to write off the remaining balance.
Our investigator said Zenith should write off the outstanding balance for Ks policy as Mrs D 
wouldnt have cancelled the policy if shed known the correct costs for cancelling. Zenith 
disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said:
the policies are clear the full annual premium is payable on policy cancellation if a 
claim has been made
it was clear in the December call that if a policy was cancelled mid-term and a claim 
had been made the full premium had to be paid. Mrs D would have known she made 
claims against both S and Ks policies
the information it gave in the call didnt influence Mrs Ds decision to move insurance 
cover as shed already taken out alternative insurance for both dogs.
Before I made a decision I asked Mrs D when shed taken out the new insurance policies for 
the dogs. Mrs D didnt respond.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why on the available evidence I was intending to not 
uphold this complaint. I said:
The Terms of Business, part of the policy documents, say:
cancellation of the policy with claims
If your policy is cancelled for any reason a pro-rata charge of the premium and any 
applicable fees will be due, however if you have made a claim during the current year 
of insurance, your full premium and any applicable fees will be due (unless the claim 
is for the death of your pet when a pro-rata charge will be made). If you are paying by 
instalments the rest of the years premium becomes due.
So under the terms of the policy Zenith can charge Mrs D the full premium if a policy is 
cancelled mid-term and claims have been made in the policy year, which is relevant for both 
S and Ks policies. The policy also says theres a £30 administration fee when a policy is 
cancelled. Neither term is unusual in pet insurance policies.
Zenith says Mrs D was sent the policy information so she should have known what it would 
cost to cancel the policies. But the renewal letters to Mrs D Ive seen ask her to look at that 
information on-line and Mrs D says shes not able to do so. Zeniths final response letter 
accepts Mrs D had problems viewing claims on-line because the system isnt set up to check
claims with policies starting with the pre-fix Mrs Ds policies had. Zenith hasnt said whether 
the system problem meant Mrs D also wouldnt be able to see the policy documents.
However, whether or not Mrs D could have viewed the policy on-line, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Zenith to give correct information to Mrs D about the policies 
cancellation charges when she phoned to cancel.
Ive listened to the December 2019 call. Zenith accepts it gave Mrs D wrong information 
about the charges for Ks policy in the call, and it did.
But I also think Zenith gave Mrs D wrong information about the charges for Ks policy in the 
final response letter as it said it was charging the balance of the claim payments as that was 
more than the remainder of the unpaid full premium. I cant see any provision in the policy for 
Zenith to charge the claim amount if its higher that the unpaid full premium.
I also think Zenith gave Mrs D wrong information in the call about the payments due to S 
policy, as Ive detailed below.
Zenith should have given Mrs D correct information about the cancellation charges. But the 
important point is that I need to decide if Mrs D has overall been disadvantaged by Zeniths 
wrong information. I dont think she has because:
the monthly premium on Ks policy was £70.66 and the policy was due to expire on 
13 February 2020. So at the time of cancellation the remaining outstanding full 
premium would have been about two months, about £141, which Mrs D would have 
needed to pay if Zenith had given her the correct information the call. That amount is 
about £20 less than the balance Zenith now wants but I also need to take into 
account the second point
Zenith only charged Mrs D £76 for cancelling S policy, the balance of the claim for 
that policy year. It didnt charge Mrs D the remaining full premium on S policy which 
would have been £76.84 a month for the five remaining months of the policy, so 
about £380 in total. Under the policy terms Zenith could have charged Mrs D the 
remaining premiums of £380 to cancel S policy rather than the £76 it charged
its not clear from the call whether or not Mrs D had already taken out alternative 
insurance for her dogs. Ive not heard from her when I asked her to tell me the date 
of the new policies. Zenith says Mrs D had already taken out alternative insurance. If 
so then the wrong information Zenith gave in the call didnt influence Mrs D in 
cancelling the policies. As Ive got no evidence that Mrs D cancelled the Zenith 
policies before she bought the alternative insurance Ive no evidence that she was 
disadvantaged by Zeniths wrong information.
Zenith made various deductions to apologise for giving wrong information to Mrs D and now 
wants her to pay £162.07 for Ks policy cancellation as well as the £76 she paid for S policy 
cancellation. Given what Ive said above I think overall thats a fair and reasonable amount.
On the information I currently have I dont think Mrs D has been overall disadvantaged by 
the wrong information Zenith gave in the December 2019 call. Zenith doesnt need to write 
off the £162.07 it wants Mrs D to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D didnt respond. Zenith agreed the provisional outcome. But it wanted to clarify that in 
its final response letter to Mrs D it hadnt asked her to repay the claim payments on Ks 
policy. The £212.07 was the outstanding premium due (three months of the monthly 
premiums of £70.69). It said generally if a policyholder wanted to cancel the policy mid-term 
and it had paid a claim which was less than the remaining annual premium due it gave the 
policyholder the option to repay the claim, as with S policy. If it had paid a claim which was higher than the remaining annual premium due then the premium had to be paid, as with Ks 
policy.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zeniths clarification that the £212.07 it asked Mrs D to pay on Ks policy was the outstanding 
annual premium due hasnt changed my mind about whats a fair outcome. But given 
Zeniths clarification some of my reasoning in my provisional decision is no longer relevant.
The key issue is that theres still no evidence to support that Zenith disadvantaged Mrs D by 
giving her wrong information about the cancellation charges in the December 2019 call. 
Zenith says Mrs D had already taken out alternative insurance when she called it. Mrs D 
hasnt responded to my requests about when she bought the alternative insurance so Ive no 
evidence that Mrs D cancelled the Zenith policies before she bought the alternative policies. 
Which means theres no evidence to support that Zeniths wrong information to Mrs D 
influenced her to cancel the policies. 
I think Zeniths requests for payments for S and K policies were fair and reasonable. Under 
the terms of the policy Zenith could charge Mrs D the full premium if a policy was cancelled 
mid-term and claims had been made in the policy year, which is relevant for S and Ks 
policies. The policy also says theres a £30 administration fee when a policy is cancelled. 
On S policy, Zenith gave Mrs D the cheaper option to repay the claim settlement rather than 
pay the outstanding full annual premium, which is more than it needed to do under the policy 
terms. It reasonably asked her to pay the £43.52 outstanding premium for cover from 
25 November to 3 December 2019 and the administration fee.
On Ks policy, Zenith charged Mrs D the outstanding full annual premium which is in line with 
the policy terms. Zeniths evidence is that the outstanding £212.07 was a smaller amount 
than Mrs D repaying the claim settlement on Ks policy and I think that charge was fair. 
Zenith wrote off the £73.32 remaining on S policy and £50 from the outstanding balance on 
K's policy to apologise for giving Mrs D the wrong information in the December call, which 
I think was a reasonable amount.
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint. Zenith doesnt need to write off the £162.07 it wants 
Mrs D to pay.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman