DRN-3426039
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the cost of a lifetime pet insurance policy with Bastion Insurance 
Co. Ltd. 
What happened
Mr R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Bastion over the phone, starting in July 
2018 at a cost of £21.18 per month. Mr R says the premium has gone up significantly since 
then. The premium for the renewal in July 2020 was £57.18 per month and in July 2021 it 
increased to £97.60 per month, along with a 20% co-payment. He thinks this is unfair and 
the increases are unreasonable. 
Mr R says his dog is now eight years old and he is now in a position where he can no longer 
afford to renew the policy with Bastion but also cant afford to take out alternative insurance 
cover. His dog has been uninsured since July 2021. Mr R says he wants Bastion to take a 
more responsible and ethical approach to their pricing policy and offer realistic terms at 
renewal. He says Bastion is deliberately pricing owners of older pets out of the market, 
which is unfair. 
Bastion says the premium was correctly calculated, taking account of its underwriting 
criteria, which includes the age of Mr Rs dog. Bastion also said Mr R had made two 
expensive claims in the previous two years. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. The investigator recommended that this 
complaint be upheld in part. The Investigator was satisfied that Bastion had calculated the 
premium in line with its underwriting criteria but was not satisfied Mr R had been given 
sufficient notice of the potential increases in premium when he took out the policy. The 
Investigator therefore recommended that Bastion pay the sum of £250 compensation for 
this.  
Bastion does not accept the Investigators assessment, as it does not think it has done 
anything wrong.
Mr R does not accept the investigators assessment either. Mr R says that it is only right that 
Bastions underwriting and pricing policy be assessed for fairness. It is not ethical for an 
insurer to be able to set a premium at a level that means it is unaffordable, when a 
policyholder is tied to remain with it if they have already made claims. Mr R also says that 
the compensation recommended by the Investigator will not serve as any disincentive for 
Bastion and will not stop it from acting this way in future and is also insufficient to redress or 
the situation he is in: his dog is now effectively uninsurable and she is only eight years old 
and he will now have to bear the cost of any treatment for her for the rest of her life. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that they want 
to charge for that cover, based on the risk they are being asked to cover. We have no power 
to make an insurer cap its charges or charge certain amounts. And we cannot assess the 
commercial decisions it has made about how it will set premiums, in the way Mr R has 
asked. Likewise, consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they wish 
to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all (unless its a requirement, legal or 
otherwise) and meet any treatment costs themselves. 
The cost of insuring a pet will generally increase each year, as the pet gets older because 
the likelihood of claims increases and the cost of medical treatment rises. This is especially 
true of lifetime policies such as the one Mr R holds. Most pet insurance policies wont cover 
any medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment for, when the policy was taken out 
or renewed, so ongoing medical conditions wont usually be covered. But 'life-time policies' 
will cover any conditions on an ongoing basis for the rest of the pets life, as long as the 
policy remains in force. This means there is a higher risk of claims being made and so the 
cost of providing this cover tends to be more expensive that other types of pet insurance on 
the market. Premiums can also increase significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how 
much the premium could be and, as stated above, we cant impose one. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being covered, are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the cost of vets in the relevant locality, and the 
age and breed of the pet, among other things. 
Mr Rs premium has increased significantly in recent years but I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Bastion has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position. So I cant say it has acted unfairly when pricing the policy. 
And, as stated, I have no power to direct that Bastion charge Mr R, or anyone else, less for 
his policy. This is how much Bastion has determined it needs to charge to provide the cover 
for Mr Rs dog and he was free to either accept or reject the renewal terms. I also note that 
Bastion had other policies with lower claims limit that may have been cheaper.
However, given the potential for premiums to increase significantly we would expect this to 
have been made clear to Mr R at the outset. This is because those selling insurance have a 
responsibility to provide clear information about the cover being provided, the cost and any 
significant terms or conditions. Essentially, the information provided to the buyer must put 
them in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy. To 
fulfil this responsibility, we would expect a seller to explain clearly any significant terms. This 
may be verbally or by providing clear documentation. In relation to a lifetime pet policy, we 
would expect the information about the cost of the policy to include the potential for 
significant increases in the price, given the specific type of cover being provided. 
There is no convincing evidence that Mr R was informed of the potential significant increases 
in premium that might occur with this type of policy. Bastion does not have a recording of the 
sales call but has provided a copy of the script that its agents would use. Having read this, it 
does not support that Mr R was told of the potentially significant increases in premium that 
might occur. There is also nothing in the policy documents, that would make this sufficiently 
clear, only a mention that premiums might change.  
Mr R didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. But 
those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered with 
a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if a pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the 
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place. In this instance it seems Mr R 
was looking for a lifetime policy. And as premium rises of this type are common across the 
market I think its likely that Mr R would have still bought this policy, as thats the type of 
policy he was looking for. And, as mentioned, he has made two claims under the policy, so 
has benefited for ongoing conditions, which hed likely have had to pay for himself if he had 
chosen not to take the policy. 
Overall, I don't think hed have done much different even if Bastion had given him more 
information at the point of sale. Hed either have not taken the policy, but would have had to 
bear the cost of treatment of any ongoing conditions himself, or he would have still taken this 
or another lifetime policy. 
Mr R says he is being priced out of the market and this is unfair. However, as stated insurers 
are entitled to set their own prices and it is not unfair or unreasonable that they increase 
those to reflect the risk they are taking on. I understand that Mr R is now in a difficult position 
but that is not as a result of anything Bastion has done wrong. However, I do understand that 
the significant increases in premium, particularly in 2021, came as something of a shock to 
Mr R, and if Bastion had given him more information at the outset about the likely effect of 
claims on premiums, then he wouldn't have been so surprised by the increase. So I agree 
with the Investigator that some compensation is appropriate to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. I also agree that the sum of £250 is appropriate. 
Mr R says this amount is not sufficient to act as a deterrent to Bastion but it is not a penalty  
we do not regulate insurers and therefore cannot make punitive awards. It is an award of 
compensation to reflect the fact that Mr R was not expecting such a significant increase in 
his premiums. It is not intended to compensate for the future cost of insurance his dog or  for 
opting to no longer insure her and cover the cost of any treatment himself. I am of the 
opinion that £250 is reasonable to reflect the fact Mr R was not aware the premiums would 
go up as much as they did.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd and require it to pay Mr R the sum 
of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mis-sale of the 
policy to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman