DRN-3112406
The complaint
Ms H, through her representative, complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company
Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Mutual here is a brief table of approved loans.
loan date taken date repaid amount 
borrowedterm weekly rate
1 07/07/2012 10/07/2013 £100 26w £5
2 25/08/2012 08/10/2014 £300 51w £8.23
3 15/11/2014 26/08/2015 £200 26w £10
4 22/08/2015 23/12/2015 £200 26w £10
5 05/12/2015 22/11/2017 £500 102w £7.59
6 18/11/2017 28/08/2019 £600 102w £9.11
The first three are loans which Mutual has objected to as in its view they were ones Ms H 
complained about too late. So Mutual said that they were not ones we can investigate. Ms H 
has not supplied information to enable our adjudicator to assess this element and so, on 
current evidence, loans 1 to 3 are not included within this complaint. However, our 
adjudicator explained in her opinion that all six loans are part of the same lending 
relationship and so were to be viewed together but no assessment was carried out for 
Loans 1 to 3.
Our adjudicator thought that by loan 4 Mutual ought to have been verifying the information 
being given to it by Ms H. Even without this information from Ms H, our adjudicator believed 
loans 1 to 3 had been repaid well after the agreed settlement dates and so Mutual shouldve 
realised Ms H was struggling financially and there was a significant risk she wouldve been 
unable to sustainably afford the repayments on any further loans.
Our adjudicator also thought that by the time of loan 6, Mutual shouldve reasonably 
questioned whether continuing to offer further borrowing to Ms H who by now appeared to 
be becoming reliant on this form of lending, was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. Our 
adjudicator thought it was. And she thought that Mutual should put things right for Ms H for 
loans 4 to 6.
Ms Hs representative acknowledged receipt of our adjudicators view and did not disagree 
with it.
Mutual responded in depth with many points all of which have been reviewed by me.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 16 November 2021. I invited both parties to respond by 1 December 2021. 
The provisional findings are duplicated in the next pages in smaller type size to differentiate 
them from my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator thought this was the 
situation for loan 6 and I address this later in the decision.
Mutual was required to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
Provisional findings made on 16 November 2021I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Mutual has referred to Ms Hs complaint submission details sent to it. Ms H has sent the same 
complaint letter and supporting information to us. One part of that submission to Mutual was a Claim 
Audit Form filled in for her representative referred to in Ms Hs representatives complaint letter to 
Mutual.
Ms H had been asked to explain in that Claim Audit Form what she recalled about the way that the 
loans were assessed and lent to her and what her income and outgoings were at the time she was 
indebted to Mutual. In one part she states Couldnt afford it each week was struggling to pay my 
debts but still offering me loans. Ms H has said in that form that she was paying £102 each month to 
another lender.
And these statements may be correct but they differ from the information Ms H gave to Mutual at the 
time of application to such a degree that I cant accept them without verification from Ms H.
Ms H provided information in the Claim Audit Form about her income and her outgoings around the 
time of the Mutual loans. The table was labelled Summary of client I&E declaration and it is 
duplicated here (original emphasis retained).
Summary of client I&E declaration
Total incomings £1365
Total outgoings before loan payment £794
Available funds before loan payment £571
It shows that even on Ms Hs own evidence she had £571 disposable income each month left. The 
loan repayments ranged from £5 to £10 a week.
Ms H told Mutual at the time of her applications that she earned around £265 each week (monthly 
equivalent of around £1,148) and her weekly expenses were around £106. Those details are from 
Mutuals records and show the same figures from August 2015 (loan 4) to November 2017 (loan 6) 
which again, I question. But on the evidence from both parties it looks to have been the case that 
Ms H could afford these loans.
And so, I have chosen to reconsider the complaint and issue a provisional decision. If Ms H provides 
further evidence about her financial circumstances for the lending periods, I can review the complaint 
in two weeks.
On current evidence:
I have no information to know whether these income and expenditure figures in Ms Hs 
Claim Audit Form are accurate nor as to the year to which they relate, and
the complaint point that being in a debt spiral to the extent that loans were not affordable is 
not established as I have no evidence from Ms H to indicate that she was unable to afford 
loans 4 to 6; and
I am not persuaded that the repetitive nature of the lending caused Ms H harm as it seems 
she had about £571 a month disposable income with which to furnish the debts.
For the reasons I have given above, and on current evidence I am planning not to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. I will be content to review the complaint upon receipt of new evidence from either party 
after two weeks.My decision
Mutual has responded to say that it has nothing further to add.
Ms Hs representative has acknowledged receipt twice and no additional evidence has been 
received from her or her representative. 
In the circumstances, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and so for the 
reasons given above I repeat those here and my decision is that I do not uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman