DRN-3451978
The complaint
Mr O complains about a block on his online banking account with HSBC UK Bank Plc trading 
as first direct (first direct).
What happened
First direct restricted Mr O from making online payments after he suffered a number of 
scams on his account. First direct went on to ask Mr O some security questions relating to 
certain payments he made, as it classed them as unusual activity on the account. Mr O was 
unwilling to answer those questions, so his account remained restricted. So, Mr O made a 
complaint to first direct. 
First direct looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. First direct said it had a 
responsibility to safeguard Mr O against fraud and scams on his account and the terms and 
conditions Mr O signed up to allow it to do this. It went on to say that as Mr O was unwilling 
to give the bank more information on what several transactions were for, it was correct to 
restrict the account.  
Mr O said first direct was preventing him from spending his own money. He also said it 
stopped him from being able to buy a travel ticket to get to work. So, Mr O brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator started by saying that it was in the terms and conditions of the account that first 
direct may block or place restrictions on an account if it had security concerns. He went on to 
say that first direct could block a payment coming out of Mr Os account if he doesnt provide 
information thats been asked for relating to that payment. Finally, our investigator found that 
as Mr O had been a victim of several scams, and first direct were acting in his best interests 
when it restricted and blocked his online account access. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Its clear Mr O feels very strongly about the action first direct have taken and feels the bank 
is keeping his money from him. But having looked through the information supplied by both 
parties, and having listened to several calls, I dont think this is the case - and Ill explain 
why. 
First direct have a duty to protect their customers. In doing so, first direct have a number of 
measures it can take, and these are built into the terms and conditions of the account that Mr 
O agreed to when he opened it. One of those conditions is that first direct can block 
transactions to and from a consumers account if it has concerns over how its being 
operated. Our investigator has correctly set these terms and conditions out to Mr O in their 
view. 
Although we dont generally ask businesses to alter or change their terms or conditions, we 
do look into whether it has applied them fairly in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Its clear Mr O had fraud and scam activity on his account previously, both parties have 
confirmed this. First direct then spotted a number of unusual transactions that it wanted 
more information on. Mr O didnt supply this information, so a restriction was placed on the 
online account. I dont find first direct have acted unfairly or against the terms of the account 
when it applied the blocks, given the reasons for them and the lack of information supplied 
by Mr O. 
Although a restriction was only placed on making online payments, I can understand how 
frustrating this wouldve been for Mr O. Having said that, the block wouldve been released 
had Mr O cooperated and answered the questions first direct asked. I listened to a number 
of calls between Mr O and first direct operators and on each one the operator explained 
clearly why they needed the information and the background behind it. I also found the 
operators dealt with the calls professionally when at times they did become challenging. 
As things stand Mr O can withdraw funds from his account and make point of sale 
transactions. I understand Mr O has a number of payments he would like to make and one of 
those is to support family members. I would encourage Mr O to work with first direct and 
supply the information it requires. Im confident if this is done, these issues will be resolved, 
and the payments can be made.
Since the investigators view, Mr O has mentioned that he thinks first direct are discriminating 
against him because of his race. As a service we dont look at discrimination as this is for the 
courts, but we would consider if the business has been fair and reasonable. Ive thought 
about this point very carefully, but Ive not seen anything in the information that Ive 
investigated that satisfies me that first direct are asking the questions it has done because of 
Mr Os race. Id expect first direct to take similar measures with each of its consumers if it 
had similar concerns. 
In summary its clear first direct had fraud and scam concerns over Mr Os account and from 
listening to the calls, its clear that previous scam issues had also had a real impact on Mr O. 
So, I dont find first direct have acted unfairly when they have put measures in place to 
safeguard Mr Os money. In fact, Ive found the opposite, first direct are trying to protect Mr 
O from future losses.
Moving forwards, I would suggest Mr O cooperates with first direct and gives them the 
information they require. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
first direct
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman