DRN-4313667
The complaint
Mr W complains that SVM Asset Management Limited (SVM) wont pay the money it owes 
him or provide evidence that its already been paid.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W bought an investment trust through an account with SVM. In April 2022 he phoned 
SVM to give instructions to withdraw the full amount invested. But SVM told him thered been 
two withdrawals in December 2006 and his account had a nil balance.
Mr W didnt recall making any withdrawal and asked SVM to provide details. SVM didnt 
have full records, because of the time that had passed, but it sent Mr W the information it 
had about the investment trust sales and confirmed his account had a nil balance. Mr W 
provided copies of his bank statements which didnt show that the money had been credited 
to his account. He wants SVM to pay him the money he is owed or provide evidence to show 
that he cashed its cheques.
SVM said it had checked all its accounts where the money could be held, but it didnt have 
any outstanding amounts matching Mr Ws and that there were no unpaid balances.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
more likely than not that the balance of Mr Ws account was paid out in 2006 and that SVM 
couldnt provide any further evidence because it wasnt required to keep records from that 
long ago.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he only had one bank account and if SVM had 
sent a cheque it would have been credited to that account. He said there wasnt evidence to 
show that SVM had paid him the balance of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SVM says Mr W withdrew the balance of his account in December 2006, following 
instructions to sell his investment trust. Due to the passage of time, there are limited records 
available from that long ago. I therefore reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
SVM has provided evidence to show that Mr Ws account has a nil balance. And its been 
able to provide details of the investment trust sales which took place in December 2006. 
Whilst I cant say exactly what security measures SVM had in place in 2006, and whether 
these were followed, I think its more likely than not that SVM carried out checks to make 
sure that it was an authorised party who gave the sale and withdrawal instructions. And that, 
as this was an account in Mr Ws sole name, it was most likely Mr W who gave those 
instructions.
SVM would most likely have paid the balance of the account to Mr W. It cant conclusively 
say how the money was issued to Mr W, but it thinks it was most probably by two cheques. It 
held the correct postal address for Mr W so, if the money was sent by cheque, Mr W most 
likely would have received it.
Mr W has provided copies of his bank statements from 1 December 2006 to 31 March 2007 
which dont show the cheques being credited to his account. The cheques would have been 
valid for six months, so they would still have been able to be cashed up to around the end of 
June 2007. But I understand Mr W is sure the cheques werent credited to his account during 
this period. 
Mr W says he only had one bank account. I accept thats possible. But looking at the 
statements, whilst there are some direct debits, there wouldnt appear to be the normal 
transactions for household expenses that I would expect to see if someone didnt have 
access to any other accounts. And theres no regular income receipts. I would have 
expected to see credits for either salary, pension or benefits. So I think it is possible that 
Mr W did have other accounts, which hes now forgotten about, and the cheques could have 
been credited there. 
I understand Mr W would like SVM to provide evidence that the cheques were cashed by 
him. But, because this happened so long ago, SVM doesnt have that information. I dont find 
that unreasonable. If the cheques hadnt been cashed, I would expect an equivalent sum to 
be held in one of SVMs client money accounts. SVM told us that it has checked all these 
accounts and hasnt found any balances which correspond with the amount it would have 
sent Mr W. 
Im satisfied that, in the understandable absence of records, SVM has taken reasonable 
steps to provide Mr W with as much information as it can and to check that it isnt holding 
Mr Ws money in one of its accounts. I do appreciate Mr W would like to know with certainty 
what happened. But overall I dont find SVM has acted unreasonably, and I find its more 
likely than not that Mr W has already received the balance of his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman