DRN-1374651
The complaint
Mr S complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds handling of a 
claim on his Motor Warranty Policy.
What happened
Mr S says he noticed an issue with his vehicles clutch and contacted Red Sands to see if he 
could make a claim on his policy.
Mr S says he took his vehicle to Red Sands preferred garage and booked a MOT and 
service. 
After completing the service, Mr S said the garage advised him against proceeding with the 
MOT due to faults they found  in particular the clutch and gearbox. In order to validate any 
claim, Red Sands told the garage they would need diagnostic work to be carried out  such 
as a video of the clutch and gearbox.
Mr S says he was advised of the cost and was told this would only be covered if Red Sands 
accepted his claim. Mr S felt this was unfair as he had already paid for a service which had 
diagnosed the issues and being potentially liable for these costs if the claim wasnt 
accepted.  Mr S felt hed met the terms and conditions of the policy and it wasnt made clear 
to him that Red Sands could insist on further diagnosis. He raised a complaint with Red 
Sands.
Red Sands said to properly assess Mr S claim they would need the garage to diagnose the 
faults and confirm the exact cause of failure. They said the garage had identified the parts 
had failed but hadnt provided any information that showed the cause of the failure. They 
said the terms and conditions of the policy made it clear that diagnostic costs were not 
covered.
Mr S wasnt happy with Red Sands response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr S complaint. She felt Red Sands had 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly by saying they would reimburse any 
diagnostic costs if a claim was approved. She said it wasnt unreasonable for Red Sands to 
need to diagnose the cause of the faults in order to validate Mr S claim.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He said he had already paid for his vehicle to be 
serviced  and that the faults had already been identified.  He said the terms and conditions 
for the policy were not clear which leads a customer to believe parts are covered when they 
are not.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr S made a number of detailed points. I want to assure him that Ive considered all of them 
but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I 
dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it. 
Part of Mr S submissions concern the wording of the policy  but it isnt our role as a service 
to tell businesses how to operate, or what to put in their policy wording. So I wont be 
commenting on this any further in my decision.
I wont be upholding Mr S complaint.  Ill explain why. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss 
policy say: 
This POLICY specifically excludes the following and YOU will not be entitled to receive an 
indemnity in respect thereof:
11.3 Diagnosis costs.
Red Sands have said the diagnosis costs would be covered in the event of a valid claim. Its 
not unusual for businesses to do this, and I think it is set out clearly in the policy that 
diagnosis costs arent covered. So I dont think Red Sands have applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy unfairly in asking Mr S to cover diagnosis costs.
Mr S said the vehicle had been serviced and faults had been identified so he didnt think the 
diagnosis was necessary. 
Ive looked at the how to make a claim section in the policy document.
Under step two it says the customer must give permission for the repairer to carry out any 
fault finding/diagnosis or dismantling necessary. 
Red Sands said the cause of the faults wasnt diagnosed which was why more detail was 
needed before they could validate the claim. Its not unusual for a vehicle service to identify 
faults, but it doesnt usually contain details of what is actually causing the fault. And Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me that in this case it did. Its also not unreasonable for an 
insurer to need to identify a cause in order to be able to fairly assess a claim and confirm if it 
can be accepted.
As authorisation from Mr S was needed for the diagnosis to go ahead, and it wasnt given, 
the causes couldnt be identified. Because of this the claim couldnt progress. So I dont think 
Red Sands have acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr S' complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman