DRN-3516318
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1975 in respect of an unsatisfactory holiday.
What happened
Mr P booked a holiday villa overseas in the winter of 2020 with a company I will call E. He 
made the booking through a company I will call H, but his contract was with E. Mr P and his 
wife extended their stay due to Covid travel restrictions. He made two payments, one for 
£1,371.04 and a further one for £820.26 to cover the extension. 
During the extension period the villa was burgled and Mr P and his wife had some valuables 
stolen including their passports. Some of these had been in a safe which had been ripped 
out. Mr P raised a dispute with Barclays after his return. He said E had failed in its duty of 
care as far as the security of the villa was concerned and he also said there was no 
dishwasher as advertised and the maids had been careless and had stolen property. Mr P 
was able to claim the losses on his insurance policy.
E disputed Mr Ps claims, apart from the lack of a dishwasher and it paid him €40 to cover 
that. Mr P didnt think €40 was sufficient.
Barclays also rejected Mr Ps claim as it didnt consider he had demonstrated that there had 
been a breach of contract. He then brought a complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He didnt believe there was misrepresentation in that the villa had not been advertised with 
either a safe or security system. He agreed that the lack of a dishwasher had been 
misrepresentation, but he didnt believe it was something that would have caused Mr P not 
to make the boking and he thought the compensation paid by E was fair.
He also reviewed the terms and conditions of the contact and noted that it excluded liability 
for losses arising out of the actions of third parties. It also said that the property was 
occupied by guests at their own risk.
Mr P didnt agree and said what had happened was not their fault. He pointed out that had 
they not used the safe their insurance would not have covered them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would say that I sympathise with Mr and Mrs P as I am sure the burglary was most 
unsettling. However, I do not consider I can uphold their complaint. I will explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I have no reason to consider the chain has been broken and so I must consider of there has 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
It is accepted that the property was advertised with a dishwasher and one wasnt provided. 
That is misrepresentation. However it is not one which I consider would allow me to require 
Barclays to refund the cost of the villa rental. E has paid compensation to Mr P and I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr P does not agree and the lack of a 
dishwasher was made worse by their extended stay. But he accepted the compensation and 
I do not consider more is merited.
Turning to the burglary I cannot hold E responsible for the activities of the burglars. Mr P 
says the safe wasnt properly installed and the maintenance man had warned him on the 
second day not to use it. He also says the security lights were not working fully. E had not 
advertised a safe or a burglar alarm on Hs website so I cannot say there was 
misrepresentation. They may have been ineffective in stopping the burglars, but I cannot see 
that this amounts to a breach of contract. E offered the use of a villa for a specified period of 
time and that is what it provided.
The terms and conditions state: Guest agrees that all personal property, furnishings, 
personal affects and other items brought into the Property by Guest or their permitted guests 
and visitors shall be at the sole risk of Guest with regard to any theft, damage, destruction or 
other loss and Rental Agent shall not be responsible or liable for any reason whatsoever.
As such I cannot say that there has been a breach of contract since E did not guarantee 
absolute security and Mr P agreed to take the risk for any thefts.
Mr P has said there was some petty thieving by the maids. As our investigator has pointed 
out the service was provided as promised by E, but it is not responsible for any theft which 
may have occurred.
I also cannot say that the poor TV reception which E says was due to buffering would allow 
me to say that there had been a breach of contract. 
So while I have every sympathy with Mr P and his wife I cannot say that Barclays was wrong 
to conclude that there was not enough evidence to show there had been a breach of 
contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman