DRN-4034076
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc misled her about her early repayment charge 
(ERC). She says its policy about when the 10% ERC free overpayment allowance applies is 
unfair. 
Miss C asks that Santander refunds part of the ERC she paid and pays compensation for 
her time, trouble and upset.
What happened
Miss C had a mortgage with Santander with a five-year fixed interest rate product which was 
due to expire in December 2024. The product had an early repayment charge (ERC). 
However, Miss C was able to make overpayments of up to 10% of the balance each year 
without incurring an ERC. Ill refer to this as the fee free allowance.
Miss C called Santander in May 2022. Santander didnt give her correct information as to 
whether she could use her fee free allowance if she repaid the mortgage. She was told that 
she wouldnt be able to do this in late 2022.
Miss C says Santander misled her in May 2022. She says its policy to allow customers to 
benefit from the fee free allowance if they make an overpayment at least seven days before 
redeeming the mortgage is unfair. She says most customers arent in a position to do this. 
Miss C says it makes no difference to Santander if it receives the payment in one payment 
or two separate payments. 
Santander accepted the information given to Miss C in May 2022 was unclear and incorrect 
and paid £100 compensation to Miss C. 
Our investigator said Santander applied the ERC in accordance with the product terms, and 
gave Miss C correct information about this in December 2022, before she repaid the 
mortgage. Our investigator said it isnt fair to require Santander to do more.
Miss C didnt agree. She said repaying a mortgage is making an overpayment  of the whole 
amount. She said the fact that Santander told her what it intended to do doesnt make it fair. 
Miss C says a customer could make an overpayment of almost all the balance and still 
benefit from the fee free allowance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C took out a fixed interest rate product. As is usually the case with fixed rate products, 
the product terms included an ERC. This was calculated as a percentage of the amount 
repaid and was clearly set out in the mortgage offer. The mortgage offer said Miss C could 
make capital repayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance each calendar year 
without having to pay an ERC. 
Miss C called Santander in May 2022 to ask whether the fee free allowance would apply if 
she repaid the mortgage. Santander accepts that the information it gave Miss C at that time 
was incorrect and unclear.
Santander gave Miss C correct information  that the fee free allowance wouldnt apply 
when the mortgage was repaid  in late November 2022 and in its final response letter dated 
8 December 2022. Santander told Miss C that it allows customers to benefit from the fee free 
allowance if they make an overpayment more than seven days before the mortgage is 
redeemed. 
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) allows lenders to apply ERCs, and the terms 
of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer that Miss C accepted. 
Santander gives customers the flexibility to make overpayments without incurring an ERC, 
within certain limits as the amount and when the overpayment is made. I dont think its 
unfair for Santander to offer customers this flexibility, or to have limits as to when it applies. 
Santander gave Miss C correct information about when the fee free allowance applied, 
including that it doesnt apply when the mortgage is repaid in full, before she repaid the 
mortgage. I think Santander was entitled to apply the ERC, in accordance with the product 
terms, when Miss C repaid the mortgage.  
Santander gave Miss C incorrect information when she called in May 2022, and I think its 
fair that it paid compensation. But theres no evidence this caused Miss C any loss  the 
ERC was always payable under the terms of the product she took out. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to refund the ERC, or any part of 
it, or pay further compensation to Miss C.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman