DRN-3503328
The complaint
Mr J complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited unfairly blocked his Pockit account and 
stopped him accessing his funds. He says they should return the funds and pay him 
compensation.
What happened
Mr J held a Pockit account. Each month he received a benefit payment into his account 
which he paid on to other accounts.
Wirecard blocked Mr Js account in early January 2020 to carry out a review. They asked 
him for further identification and information to verify the benefit payments he received. Mr J 
says he provided what they asked for. He redirected subsequent benefit payments to 
another account he holds elsewhere. The Wirecard account remained blocked.
Wirecard say they decided to return the funds they held to the payer in September 2021, 
which in this case was the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP).
Mr J says the service he received from Wirecard during the course of this matter has been 
very poor. He also says not accessing the money in his account led to him experiencing 
financial problems and detriment. He has told us he has a disability and relies on his benefit 
payments for essential needs.
Our investigator sent two views during the course of their investigation. In their first view they 
found:
Wirecard hadnt provided enough information to show it was fair to return the funds to 
the DWP. They had also caused an unreasonable delay. 
Wirecard should refund the account balance as it stood when they blocked Mr Js 
account and add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum up until the date of 
settlement. 
Wirecard should pay £250 to compensate Mr J for the trouble and upset they caused 
him.
Wirecard initially accepted the outcome and they made a payment to Mr J. But Mr J 
contacted our service and said the sum he received didnt represent the total sum Wirecard 
had agreed to resolve the complaint. Wirecard had paid the £250 plus 8% simple interest but 
they decided they wouldnt repay the account balance.
Wirecard said they had fairly returned the account balance to the DWP. Our investigator 
asked Mr J for more information on why he had sent a benefit payment to the company. He 
said he couldnt recall exactly why, but it was likely to pay a loan or a bill. He also provided 
evidence from the DWP which showed they told him they hadnt received the payment back 
from Wirecard. 
Following further contact from our investigator Wirecard made an offer to pay a further £150 
in addition to the sum they had already paid Mr J. They acknowledged they had caused 
further delays. But they still refused to repay the account balance.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint again and upheld it. They found:
Wirecard had an insufficient basis to conclude Mr J wasnt entitled to the benefit 
payments, so it was unfair for them to have returned the funds to the DWP. The 
evidence available indicated Mr J was entitled to the benefit payment.
Wirecard still needed to return the remaining account balance to Mr J and calculate 
8% simple interest per annum on that sum until the date of settlement. They should 
also pay him the £150 they offered to make up for the further trouble and upset they 
caused him.
Mr J responded and said he should receive a larger sum due to financial losses he 
experienced. Our investigator explained that he would need to provide evidence of financial 
loss caused by not having access to the funds. Mr J asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me to decided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Js complaint, but I am not awarding any further compensation 
than what our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Wirecard were entitled to review Mr Js account and initially block access to his funds. I 
appreciate Mr J was unhappy with Wirecard taking this action, which is understandable. But I 
find Wirecard were complying with their legal and regulatory responsibilities, and their 
decision to block the account and ask for further information from him was reasonable.
Wirecard should ensure they carry out a review without undue delay. After all, the longer a 
customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm they may suffer.
Wirecard took an unreasonable length of time to complete their review and they ought to 
have reached a decision on what to do with the funds long before they did. I see they held 
on to the funds from January 2020 to at least September 2021, which was when they say 
they returned the funds to the DWP. And, based on the information and evidence they 
provided I dont find taking this length of time was justified.
Wirecard provided a screenshot from their system which they say shows the funds were sent 
back to the DWP. But Mr J sent us evidence which shows the DWP investigated whether the 
payment was returned, and they confirmed it wasnt. So, I find its unlikely that Mr J received 
his funds back.
Generally, a firm cannot go against their customers mandate and debit funds without their 
consent. Sometimes, however, returning funds to source is a reasonable action to take to 
comply with legal and regulatory obligations. But Wirecard needed to have a good evidential 
basis to justify returning the funds and this is where I find them wanting. 
I have considered Wirecards reason for being concerned about the payment, but by itself 
this wasnt enough to return the funds back to the DWP and not release them to Mr J. And, 
based on the information I have seen, Mr J was entitled to the benefit payment. The DWP 
have been communicating with him about the payment in question and whether it was 
returned to their account.
Mr J says he suffered financial loss because of Wirecards actions. Its possible he diverted 
other funds to pay for rent and other expenses as a consequence of not having access to 
the balance in his account. And its also possible he had to use a credit card and borrow 
money from other sources which he had to pay back with interest. But its for him to show 
sufficient proof to verify these losses, and I dont find he has. Mr J also did use at least one previous benefit payment paid into his Pockit account to pay a 
company he had a connection with at the time. So, I have some doubt that he intended to 
use the last benefit payment he received for personal expenses. I find awarding 8% simple 
interest is enough to compensate him for not having use of the funds when he should have.
Mr J says the level of compensation the investigator recommended isnt enough to act as a 
stern message to Wirecard. But my role is not to award compensation to penalize or punish 
Wirecard for their failure.
On balance I find £400 is a fair sum to compensate Mr J for the trouble and upset he 
experienced by not having his funds returned to him. I agree this must have been a very 
frustrating time for him. This sum includes the £250 Wirecard already paid him, which leaves 
Wirecard still to pay him £150, unless they have already done so.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr J accepting this final decision, I direct Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to:
- Pay Mr J £1,101.28 by bank transfer to Mr J.
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the above sum from 4 January 2020 until the 
date of settlement. I am aware the previous payment Wirecard paid to Mr J 
comprised some of the 8% interest on the above sum calculated to a specific date. 
So Wirecard are entitled to deduct the previous simple interest sum they paid Mr J 
from the total simple interest calculation.
- Pay Mr J a further £150 to make up for the trouble and upset they caused him 
(unless they have already done so), which would bring the total sum they have paid 
him for trouble and upset to £400.
- Pay the total above amounts to Mr J within 28 days of him accepting this decision.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold this complaint and subject to Mr J accepting my decision Wirecard 
Card Solutions Limited need to pay Mr J redress in accordance with my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman