DRN-3836394
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Portal Financial Services LLP (previously known as Portafina 
LLP) ruined his retirement plans by advising him to make inappropriate investments within a 
Transact self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Portal advised Mr M to transfer his Scottish Widows personal pension containing both 
protected and non-protected rights, and a similar Standard Life pension to Transact in 2012. 
A number of funds were selected at outset, which Mr W confirmed to this service did not 
subsequently change. They were:
Hypa Rathwaite LP Exempt Property UT £19,038
Cool Blue Samui Fund - Kudos Asia Investments Ltd   £4,237
EOS Solar Investments Limited   £5,651
Venture Oil Investments Ltd   £8,966
At the time of advice, Mr W was aged 57. He has told us that:
- He was divorced without any dependants
- He was in good health
- Employed on a salary of £18,000
- He did not have any other occupational pensions than the above
- He had no other assets, but £33,000 in liabilities including his mortgage
- He was looking to obtain a pension income of £18,000pa from age 66
Portal took 5% initial commission and 1%pa renewal commission on the sale, all of which 
would have been funded by explicit deduction from the SIPP. Transact has only provided 
partial information to this service, but my understanding is that Mr W may have accessed the 
tax-free cash he was entitled to from his new SIPP at that time for two reasons:
- Later on in 2017, he was referred to as being in capped drawdown, which would be 
the result of taking tax-free cash.
- This was, essentially, part of Portals business model  it promoted its services to 
assist clients with, amongst other things, accessing tax-free cash.
My understanding is that Mr M also subsequently invested in two Dimensional funds with 
the remaining funds in his SIPP (Global Short and World Equity), and EOS Solar 
Investments  and that again this was at Portals instigation. The funds other than the 
Dimensional funds subsequently became illiquid. The following is a snapshot of what he 
held on 5 October 2016:
Following a phone call with Portal in February 2017, and subsequent advice letter, Mr W 
accessed the Dimensional funds in order to pay for his daughters wedding. The total fund 
value at that time was £46,331, which he moved from capped drawdown into flexi-access 
drawdown in order to take a taxable lump sum of £5,596. 
In June 2017 Mr W was able to liquidate the EOS Solar fund  but at a complete loss. I can 
see that as at January 2019, his remaining three funds were valued at nil, and he was still 
unable to access them in October 2020. Subsequently, the Venture Oil investment was sold 
(written off) for nil value in August 2021  leaving only the Cool Blue Samui and Hypa 
Raithwaite funds remaining. 
In December 2019, Mr M reached the age at which benefits were due to be taken from his 
SIPP. From March 2020 onwards, Portal has offered Mr W an annual income payment itself 
of £2,731pa in lieu of his ability to access the funds. Mr W has been accepting these 
payments from Portal.
In an undated letter which Portal says was in August 2020, Mr M then complained - on the 
advice of a friend of a friend. In his letter he said that:
- He was on a modest salary of £21,000 per year and not financially experienced.
- He was assured that the funds Portal proposed were an excellent investment with 
little risk.
- Portal had, in fact, wrongly promoted unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS) to him and given him unsuitable advice which was also in breach of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Businesses (PRIN).
- His remaining pension looked likely to be worthless.
A number of other points were made in the letter that confused Portals role with that of 
Transact, which Im not considering in this decision. 
In response Portal agreed that Mr W was entitled to complain about the advice he received. 
But if he did this, its income offer would have to be withdrawn (and the payments made 
would be taken into account in any wider compensation payment required following the 
complaint). Notwithstanding this I gather Portal may have made a subsequent payment of 
£2,731 to Mr W in 2021.
In any event, Portal also said that Mr W was too late to bring a wider complaint about the 
advice he received because he had known of challenging conditions for the funds hed 
invested in since at least May 2016. It referred to his phone call with its agent in February 
2021 (when he was making a withdrawal) as being a point at which he should have had 
cause for concern. So, Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Portal has only provided us with a file on the complaint which relates to its dealings with 
Mr W from 2016 onwards. 
Eventually, Portals time limits objection reached another ombudsman for a decision. My 
colleague noted that Portal had begun reassuring Mr W that his investments would produce 
the expected returns before any significant drop in values began showing on the statements 
he received from Transact.
Yet, because Mr W was trying to access funds from his pension earlier than planned in 
January 2017, his phone call to Portal of that month became particularly relevant. My 
colleague noted that during this call, Mr W had made it clear he felt he hadnt consented to 
having investments tied up until his retirement age, and that he was disappointed to find his 
withdrawal options were limited. Towards the end of the call, when discussing some of the 
specific investments, Mr W said, So, what we are saying is I cant touch any of that at all 
until Im 65which is not right really.
My colleague considered Mr Ws comments in this call met the regulators definition of a 
complaint, which is in essence an expression of dissatisfaction about a financial service 
Portal has provided which alleges that he has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss and 
which relates to an activity under the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. Under 
DISP 2.8.2R(2) in the regulators handbook, Mr W has at least six years from the date of 
investment to bring a complaint - and as he brought his complaint within that period it was 
clearly within time.
Having listened to the call, I agree with my colleagues reasoning on this point. So, that is 
enough to say that Mr Ws complaint was raised within time. A decision that a complaint is in 
jurisdiction isnt our final word on the matter and Portal has been able to raise any further 
points it has regarding this  but I note it has not done so. Ill therefore be moving on to 
discuss the merits of the complaint in the rest of this decision.
Our email to Portal enclosing this decision on 29 September 2022 also said, In the 
meantime  if you havent already  please make sure youve sent us all the information
you think is relevant to [Mr W's] complaint. The investigator chased Portal for the part of its 
file which related to its dealings with Mr W before 2016 on 10 October 2022, and no further 
information was provided.
The investigator issued his view that the complaint should be upheld on 24 November 2022. 
Again, Portal has not responded to this. I have largely reproduced the content of that view in 
my findings which follow. I make no apology for this as I am largely in agreement with what 
the investigator has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portals final response to the complaint agrees that it advised Mr W in 2012. But it has 
provided no rationale for why Mr W was advised to switch his pensions, or why the adviser 
felt the particular funds selected were appropriate for him. It may well be the case, given 
what I know of Portals business model, that he was looking to take tax-free cash from his 
pension. Mr W has also not retained any paperwork. However, that does not automatically 
mean he needed a SIPP  from which he would be charged 5% at the outset and 1% per 
year in addition to Transacts own charges  or the non-mainstream funds that have been 
chosen in this case, in order to do so.Mr W has detailed his circumstances in 2012 to us above  to his best recollection. The 
investigator also noted that when Portal later carried out a fact find before he made a further 
withdrawal in 2017, he fell into the lowest risk cautious band on its attitude to risk scale. 
Given that Mr Ws recollection is he had no assets outside his two existing pensions, I have 
little reason to come to a different assessment. 
I also cant see that he had any experience of taking investment risk outside the insured 
funds he had invested in within the Standard Life and Scottish Widows plans. In particular, 
he had no experience of the type of funds which seem to have formed the majority of the 
investment recommendations Portal made. These appear to have the characteristics of 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) but if I am wrong on that, they do fall 
within the broader category of non-mainstream pooled investments for which the risks and 
target investors for suitability are substantially the same.
The then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, issued a report into good and poor 
practice in recommending UCIS investments in 2010, which I consider is relevant here. It 
highlighted as good practice where unregulated investments, where they were suitable at all, 
were restricted to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with ongoing monitoring. 
It is clear that the recommendation made to Mr W was far in excess of this figure and, more 
to the point, as a cautious and inexperienced investor who would have been incapable of 
understanding the multiple risks involved, I dont think any of these funds should have been 
recommended to him at all.
As the investigator said, non-mainstream pooled investments, by their very nature, have 
multiple significant risk factors associated with them  including that they are generally 
unregulated, there is counterparty and currency risk, they are typically tied up without access 
to cash for long periods, and they are highly focused on particular market areas. 
There is also the prospect, as the investigator said, that Portal was in breach of the general 
prohibition in promoting these investments to Mr W at all, if they were UCIS and if it was not 
supported by a valid exemption set out under statute or in the COBS rulebook. As the 
investments seem far from suitable for Mr W, and he was not a high net worth or 
sophisticated investor, I dont think the investments (if they were UCIS) could ever have 
been lawfully promoted to him either  but my findings dont turn solely on this point as they 
were also unsuitable for him.
Suitable advice, if Mr W did need to take benefits, should have involved exploring whether 
his pensions could be consolidated within a low-cost arrangement such as one of the 
existing plans if this was appropriate or, if they were too expensive or offered insufficient 
options  such as the ability to take tax-free cash  a new arrangement with stakeholder-
level charges. 
Stakeholder arrangements had been introduced in 2001 to bring down the cost of pensions. 
But for funds the size of Mr Ws, even some SIPPs by 2012 offered an overall proposition 
which, including the cost of funds selected, would remain within the stakeholder cap of 
1.5%pa. Portal has provided no evidence to show that it considered this option, so I think it 
most likely that on suitable advice Mr W would have been advised, and agreed, to invest 
differently than with Transact and not in the non-mainstream funds used.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice.I think Mr W would have remained with his previous providers, or consolidated his 
funds into a low-cost alternative to the Transact SIPP. Even if he had remained with 
his previous providers, it may not be possible to obtain a value for what those 
previous policies would have been worth. That is now particularly the case given that 
Mr W has gone on to access funds from his pension that may always have 
necessitated a switch to a different plan.
The investigator suggested that in this event, a benchmark for investment growth 
could be used instead  and I think in the circumstances that will inevitably need to be 
the option Portal uses. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, 
taking this into account and given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. Portal Financial Services LLP must therefore:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
It must also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should make a payment into Mr Ws pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldn't 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount - it isn't 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr W won't be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
It's reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. If Mr W has already 
taken his full tax free lump sum entitlement, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Portal must also pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the significant collapse in value of his pension, which he should not 
have been exposed to by its advice.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill 
exists 
but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
settlement8% per annum 
simple from 
date of this 
decision if not 
settled within 
28 days of 
receipt of Mr 
Ws acceptance
Actual value
 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of the 
illiquid portfolio by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount it pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr W provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount he may receive from the portfolio in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr Ws investment, had it performed in line with the benchmark shown 
until the end date.  
The gross amount of any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. Any payments Portal has already paid Mr W itself in lieu of 
his expected income may be treated as a notional withdrawal for the purposes of this 
calculation. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
The Transact SIPP only still exists because of illiquid assets preventing Mr W from moving to 
a simpler arrangement. In order for the Transact SIPP to be closed and further fees that are 
charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. I've set out above how this 
might be achieved by Portal taking over the portfolio, or this is something that Mr W can 
discuss with the provider directly. But I don't know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we don't have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to all parties I think it's fair that it pays 
Mr W an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years' worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to 
arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I've chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It's a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman