DRN-3486324
The complaint
K, a limited company, has complained about the service its received from Metro Bank Plc 
(MB) in relation to its business current account.
What happened
K held a business current account with MB and complained to it about its new online 
business banking platform, launched in May 2021. Specifically, K said it missed a tax 
payment in July 2021 because the platform required it to enter a reference for the payment 
which it didnt know. K said in the past it had relied on the reference for existing payees 
being pre-populated online but that no payee references were shown on the new platform. 
K also complained on the grounds it couldnt see information relating to paid direct debits. 
So, it couldnt see who direct debits paid from its account had been paid to. 
MB issued a final response apologising that K had needed to contact it and to thank it for 
bringing the matter to MBs attention. MB went on to say it considered the complaint to be 
resolved and to tell K it could refer the complaint to us.
Unhappy with MBs response, one of Ks directors complained to us. K said although MB 
had said the complaint was resolved, the references both for payees and direct debits were 
still not showing on the platform and that this prevented it from making its tax payments. K 
said MB had left it vulnerable to fraud, because it couldnt see who direct debit payments 
had been made to, and to the consequences of not paying its taxes on time. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They 
said MB was looking to ensure customers would have the option of references populating 
automatically but that it wasnt clear yet when this would happen. The investigator also noted 
MB had resolved the issue regarding direct debits. But they felt inconvenience had been 
caused in the meantime and that Ks director had been treated unfairly. Due to the worry and 
stress the investigator felt the director had been caused, they asked MB to pay them £100 
as compensation.
MB didnt agree with the investigators findings. It accepted that no longer populating existing 
payee references on the online platform may have caused inconvenience, but that this 
feature remained available on its mobile banking applications and that K could have made 
payments by phone or in branch. MB added that the direct debit details K wanted were 
available on the platform, albeit under a separate tab for direct debits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision. 
I decided to issue a provisional decision saying I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, I felt the complainant in this case was K rather than Ks director. That meant I 
didnt think it was appropriate to make an award for worry or distress. Nor did I think 
compensation for inconvenience was warranted given the inconvenience caused to K was 
minimal in my view. I believed alternative methods of banking were available to K, such as 
via mobile or in-branch, while these issues were ongoing. 
I went on to say that I hadnt seen any evidence to show K had suffered a financial loss 
because of the changes to MBs online business banking platform or because of MBs 
subsequent actions.
MB replied to my decision to say it had nothing more to add.
K confirmed it didnt accept my findings. Among other things, it noted its director also held a 
personal account with MB which was similarly affected by the issues raised here. K said it 
wasnt looking for compensation for any inconvenience caused, rather it wanted an 
explanation as to why a facility that was previously available had been removed. K added 
that it didnt have access to mobile banking and that it wasnt a requirement for it to have 
access to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on reviewing Ks response to my provisional decision, Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
As explained in my provisional decision, the investigator initially recorded this complaint as 
having been brought by Ks director. But Im satisfied that, for our purposes, the complaint 
should be recorded as one brought by K. Thats because the complaint concerns Ks 
business current account and K is a limited company with a legal identity of its own which is 
separate from that of its directors and employees. This service doesnt have powers to 
consider all complaints made by limited companies. But, given the size of K and the details 
its provided about its operation, Im satisfied we can consider this complaint under our 
powers.
I think its important to be clear about whos bringing the complaint to us because that can 
make a difference to the sorts of things we would or wouldnt take account of in reaching our 
decision. Especially when it comes to assessing non-financial loss. For example, while we 
recognise an individual can experience frustration, upset, or distress, that wouldnt be the 
case for a deceaseds estate or a limited company.  
I recognise that Ks directors may have suffered a degree of frustration in trying to make the 
payments for and on behalf of K. But I cant award anything for that to K  the complainant in 
this case  because a company cant experience frustration.
I note that Ks director says they had a personal account with MB which was also affected by 
the issues raised in this case. But the director would need to raise that with MB and, if 
necessary, to us as a separate complaint to this one.
I can see how K may have been inconvenienced by the changes MB made to its online 
banking platform. And thats something I can take account of. But I dont think the 
inconvenience was so significant that it warrants an award of compensation. I say that 
because I understand K would still have been able to use MBs mobile banking application to 
make the payment it wanted to. It seems the payee references were still showing on that 
platform. Although K may have preferred to make payments online, I think it could also have used 
MBs phone services or visited one of its branches. So, other options were available to K.
I understand the direct debit narratives didnt appear on statements for a time. But I gather 
more details, including narratives, were available under a direct debits tab on the online 
banking platform. Again, it seems the narratives were available to view on MBs mobile 
banking application.    
Which means that, while the information K wanted to see wasnt necessarily available to 
view online as it had been before, it was still available using other means. I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect K to have explored those other means to make the relevant 
payments in the circumstances, as it did in obtaining payment references by phone in July 
and August 2021.
I take Ks point that it didnt have access to mobile banking, but Im still of the view that it 
could reasonably have used other means with which to carry out its banking activities.  
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Ks experienced inconvenience to warrant 
payment of compensation. In summary, I think K could reasonably have pursued other 
options in making the payments in question, and on occasion did just that. 
K says its not looking for compensation and instead wants an explanation from MB as to 
why this situation arose. I think MBs provided an explanation, albeit K doesnt accept it  or 
at least isnt satisfied with it.
Ive also gone on to consider whether Ks experienced financial loss due to MBs actions. I 
explained in my provisional decision that thats something we can potentially award to a 
limited company depending on the circumstances. In this case, K says MBs actions meant it 
couldnt pay its taxes and left it open to debt collection action and bailiffs being instructed. 
While I recognise there was the potential for that to happen, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that did in fact happen. And even if debt collection action was taken, I dont believe I 
could fairly hold MB responsible, for the reasons already explained.
Ive also considered Ks point about MB leaving it vulnerable to fraud due to the removal of 
information regarding who direct debits were paid to. But, even if I considered MB was at 
fault in this respect, the loss K refers to is merely hypothetical as far as Im aware. I havent 
seen any evidence  whether before or after I issued my provisional decision  to suggest K 
was a victim of fraud or that it experienced financial loss as a result.   
So, I dont make any award against MB for financial loss because I dont think Ks 
experienced any as a result of MBs actions. 
Going forward, Im glad to hear that MBs now ensured its customers  including K  can see 
the direct debit narratives on its online banking platform. I gather that MBs working on giving 
customers the option of having references for existing payees populate automatically at 
some stage in the future. I note Ks dissatisfaction with how long thats taking but this service 
doesnt regulate financial businesses and I cant compel MB in this regard.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman