DRN-3458144
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly withdrew its 
Bounce Back Loan. 
Bs director, Ms B, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
B banked with Santander and successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of 
£50,000 in November 2020. 
Santander wrote to B on 17 March 2021 explaining that it had a number of concerns as to 
the companys eligibility for the loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. So it asked 
for evidence of Bs trading activity and turnover, highlighting that it had declared an annual 
turnover of £200,250 when applying for the loan but that the account activity showed income 
of only £11. The bank also asked how the loan funds had been used to date and Bs 
intentions for the remainder. 
Ms B provided some information to Santander but ultimately the bank didnt think that this 
had demonstrated Bs eligibility for the loan  so it recalled the loan and closed the 
companys bank account.  Ms B challenged the banks decision, but when it remained 
unchanged she referred the matter to us.
Ms B doesnt think Santander has treated her company fairly. She says that B was eligible 
for the loan  as it had been trading on 1 March 2020 as required and that the turnover 
figure shed declared was an estimate, which was permitted for businesses established after 
1 January 2019 (as B was). And she says she provided evidence to demonstrate this to 
Santander, but that it had already made up its mind and didnt reconsider the position fairly  
which she believes was motivated by her ethnicity. The banks actions, she says, have 
caused B significant financial difficulty  as it acted in reliance on the loan and utilised 
around £8,000 of the funds since the loan was initially approved five months before its 
termination.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. He said, in summary, that:
Santander had carried out appropriate checks in line with the rules of the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme and its broader legal and regulatory responsibilities. The initial 
application had been accepted on the basis of Bs self-declarations in line with the 
Scheme rules, but the bank was expected and entitled to keep things under review.
Santanders concerns over Bs eligibility for the loan were justified in light of the 
information it had. Focusing on the turnover requirements that were central to the 
banks decision, he accepted that B had been entitled to use an estimated figure 
when providing its annual turnover figure. But he didnt think the figure provided was 
reasonable, given that it had received nowhere near the level of income declared 
between its incorporation in early January 2019 and its application in November 
2020.
The bank had given Ms B time and opportunity to respond and demonstrate the 
companys entitlement to the loan, before completing its review and reaching its 
decision. As it wasnt satisfied as to Bs eligibility, Santander had terminated the loan 
and closed the companys account in line with the applicable terms and conditions  
which he thought was reasonable. And he didnt think the bank had acted in a 
discriminatory way when reaching its decisions.
Ms B didnt accept our investigators view. She still thought Santanders actions were unfair 
and discriminatory, as B had been eligible for the loan having provided an estimated 
turnover figure that she believed to have been achievable. She highlighted that it had taken 
Santander five months to conclude that B wasnt, in fact, eligible for the loan  so by the time 
it had withdrawn the loan, the company couldnt apply elsewhere for help under the 
government-backed scheme (as it closed on 31 March 2021).
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that:
The applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date of 
the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been adversely 
affected by coronavirus.
The loan amount could be no more than 25% of the applicants annual turnover, 
which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year. Businesses 
established after 1 January 2019 could use an estimate.
The loan would be used to provide economic benefit to the business and not for 
personal purposes.
Santander approved Bs application on the strength of the companys self-declaration that it 
met these criteria  in keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-attested 
to eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applicants and provide funds 
quickly. But when the bank subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with 
its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that B wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained. I 
think this was reasonable, because:
There is very little evidence to show that B was trading either on 1 March 2020 or at 
the time of its Bounce Back Loan application. While the company was incorporated 
on 17 January 2019, it filed dormant accounts with Companies House for the period 
up to 31 January 2020. And it hasnt filed any accounts since then, either. Its account 
statements dont show any business activity in the year prior to its loan application, 
with most transactions being transfers into the account from Ms B to cover the 
monthly £5 account fee.While B was entitled to use an estimated annual turnover figure given it was 
established after 1 January 2019, I dont think that the figure just in excess of 
£200,000  which happened to be the amount required to obtain the maximum loan 
available under the Scheme  was a reasonable projection in light of the companys 
extremely limited activity in the 18-month period prior to its application.
Further, the calculations that Ms B has provided to support her projection were 
purportedly made sometime prior to the loan application  they included estimated 
income from March 2020, from which time monthly revenues (of as much as 
£43,000) were supposedly expected. No such income was received into Bs account, 
either before or after the loan was received. As the estimate predated the loan (and 
so Bs projected income must, therefore, not have depended on its receipt), it is 
particularly notable that the company continued to receive almost no income into its 
account in the months following receipt of the £50,000 loan (but for a couple of 
credits from Ms B). 
Santander also had reasonable concerns over how the loan funds had been used. Of 
the roughly £8,000 utilised before the bank recovered the remainder, most had been 
paid to Ms Bs personal account. This may, arguably, have been legitimate salary 
payments given her position as the companys director. In any case, there is also 
very little evidence to show that any of the other payments were for business 
purposes  particularly bearing in mind they evidently yielded practically no income 
for the company, in stark contrast to its projections.
Santander gave Ms B sufficient time and opportunity to demonstrate Bs eligibility and 
confirm how it had used the loan funds. The banks letter clearly set out the basis of its 
questions and the type of evidence it would need from B to consider releasing the remaining 
funds. It also explained the possible consequences, including the termination of the loan, if 
Ms B didnt provide the information requested or if the bank deemed the company ineligible 
for the loan after its review. It was only after allowing Ms B to respond to its concerns and 
reviewing the information she provided that Santander made the decision to terminate the 
loan.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Santander was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This 
included where any of the information provided within the application is found to have been 
misleading, incomplete or incorrect and, as mentioned above, where loan funds were used 
inappropriately. So for the reasons set out above, I think Santander was entitled to terminate 
the loan. 
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Bs accounts were in line with 
the applicable terms and conditions  and, given all Ive said about the concerns it had, were 
reasonable steps for the bank to take. I note Ms B has made some points regarding the 
issues she experienced with her personal accounts also held with Santander, but these 
would need to be dealt with by way of a separate complaint.
Ive carefully considered Ms Bs concerns that Santanders actions were motivated by her 
gender and/or her race. And Im sorry to see shes had cause to even consider that. But, 
from all Ive seen, I think that its decisions were based purely on the legitimate concerns it 
had about the companys eligible for the loan as Ive set out above. 
I should also say that Ive not found anything unusual in the timing of Santanders review or 
its recall of the loan, which happened to coincide with the closure of the Scheme to new 
applications. The timing wouldnt have made any difference anyway, as B wouldnt have been eligible to apply elsewhere for a loan having already received one from Santander  
even after its termination. 
Looking at everything then, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it terminated 
and recalled the loan from B, or in restricting and closing its account. It follows that there is 
no basis on which I could fairly hold it responsible for any impact this may have had on the 
company. So Im not requiring the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman