DRN-1755446
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim which a 
third party made against her motor insurance policy with Ageas.
What happened
In March 2019, Ageas was contacted by another insurance company who said its insured 
(the third party) was saying that Ms Ds car had reversed into their vehicle in a car park, 
and the third party was claiming for the damage caused. 
Ageas immediately contacted Ms D who denied hitting any vehicle in the car park. Ageas 
contacted the third party insurer (TPI) and said Ms D denied any involvement. It asked TPI 
for any evidence it had. In the meantime, the existence of the claim was noted on Ageass 
records.
Ageas continued to press TPI for evidence of Ms Ds involvement. In April, TPI told Ageas 
an independent witness had seen the incident and taken a photo of Ms Ds car at the scene. 
TPI said it was waiting for a statement from this witness.
In May, Ms D complained to Ageas that it hadnt dismissed this claim, in the absence of any 
evidence. She said because of the claim both the excess and premium on her policy had 
been increased. TPI said it was still waiting for the witness statement. It said there was 
damage to the third partys front bumper.
Ageas issued its final response to Ms Ds complaint on 17 May 2019. It said it believed what 
Ms D had told it, and had made clear to TPI that she denied any involvement. However, it 
needed to give TPI a reasonable amount of time to produce evidence before it could cancel 
the claim. It had chased for this evidence on a regular basis. Ms D wasnt satisfied with this, 
and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had acted reasonably, on the basis of the information it had received, to record a claim on its 
records, and allow TPI a reasonable time to produce evidence. 
Shortly after Ageas sent its final response to Ms D, TPI did produce the witnesss statement, 
which Ageas copied to her. Ms D continued to dispute that she was involved, and thought 
the statement didnt prove anything. Ageas said in the light of the evidence presented, it 
couldnt simply cancel the claim.
It continued to press TPI to say whether the third party intended to continue with the claim. 
On 19 July 2019, TPI confirmed that the third party wasnt proceeding with the claim. Ageas 
immediately confirmed to Ms D that it had cancelled the claim so that it no longer appeared 
on her insurance record. It advised her to contact her new insurer with a view to amending 
her premiums to reflect this change.
The investigator accepted that the incident had caused Ms D distress. However, he thought 
Ageas had acted appropriately in the circumstances.
Ms D responded to say, in summary, that:
the claim itself was wrongful;
no accident took place on the date TPI asserted;
there had been no actual claim;
Ageas did not come out to look at her own car when she gave permission, which 
would have shown no damage to her bumper whatsoever;
her denial of any accident taking place on the date was entirely ignored;
Ageas shouldnt have accepted the witnesss statement which she thought didnt 
make sense; and
she wanted Ageas to apologise to her and ensure there was nothing on her 
insurance record about this non-incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a legal requirement of using a car on the road that it is covered by a motor insurance 
policy. This is to provide protection both for the driver of the car and other road users. It also 
means that other road users have rights against the policy if an accident occurs.
Where a claim is notified against a policy, the insurer cant simply ignore it. If it does, it runs 
the risk of being taken to court and having a judgement entered against it. 
In this case, when it was notified of the claim, Ageas acted properly in immediately 
contacting Ms D, who denied any involvement. Ageas told TPI this, and at no point accepted 
liability on Ms Ds behalf. However, TPI said there was an independent witness who said   
Ms D was responsible. So I think Ageas acted reasonably in putting the existence of the 
claim against Ms Ds insurance record, and pressing TPI to produce the witnesss statement.
 
I understand that Ms D cast doubt upon the statement in a number of respects. She thought 
Ageas shouldnt have accepted it, and should have dismissed the claim at that stage. 
However, Ageas didnt think it could safely do so without confirmation that the third party 
wasnt proceeding with their claim. I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably in taking this 
view.
Ageas continued to press the TPI to say whether or not the third party was proceeding with 
the claim. As soon as TPI confirmed the claim wasnt proceeding, Ageas notified Ms D, and 
said the claim no longer appeared on her record. It also correctly advised her to contact her 
new insurer to see if the withdrawal of the claim would amend her premiums. 
In relation to the points Ms D made which Ive listed above:
when Ageas was notified of a claim by TPI, I think it acted reasonably in recording 
this, and asking TPI for evidence that Ms D was responsible;
it didnt ask to inspect Ms Ds car initially because it had no information about how or 
where the third party car was said to have been damaged;
Ageas didnt ignore Ms Ds denial of involvement  it continued to make this clear to 
TPI; andwhile accepting that Ms D disputed the witnesss statement, Ageas didnt feel it could 
ignore all the witness was saying so long as there was the possibility of a claim 
proceeding.
Ageas has confirmed to this service that nothing about the claim now appears on Ms Ds 
insurance record and so nothing about it will now be visible to other insurers.
Like the investigator, I think Ageas acted reasonably in dealing with the claim made against 
her Ageas policy, and so I dont propose to ask it to apologise to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman