DRN-3069150
The complaint
Mr G complains that Oplo CF Ltd (Oplo), trading as 1st Stop Car Finance Limited, 
irresponsibly granted him a finance agreement that he couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
In September 2016, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Oplo. Mr G was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £265.75, with a final payment of 
£440.95 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under 
the agreement was £16,120.
Mr G says that Oplo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Oplo didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included a review of Mr Gs credit file and payslips. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Oplo ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr G.
Oplo didnt agree and said they couldnt have been expected to know about the significant 
gambling Mr G was undertaking each month and that his payment to income ratio was very 
low and well below the level that would have triggered further affordability checks. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check Oplo completed showed that Mr G had defaulted on three accounts in the 
last three years and two of those had been within the last twelve months. The balances on 
those defaulted accounts had barely reduced. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr G 
was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Oplo to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Gs financial circumstances before lending to 
him.
I think it would have been proportionate for Oplo to have found out more about Mr Gs 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Oplo would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Gs bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr G was making a high volume of online gambling transactions, these totalled 
more than £2800.00 a month on average and that was more than Mr G was earning. Mr G 
explained that he had a gambling addiction. I think its reasonable to suggest if the business 
had asked for more detail about his expenditure they would have discovered that and 
understood that Mr G didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think Oplo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr G should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £7,997. Anything Mr G has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Gs complaint Oplo should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr G has made in excess of £7,997, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr G asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo CF Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman