DRN-2759077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that when they had a gas leak, Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) advised that they needed to take up the new flooring in their hall which turned out not 
to be necessary
References I make to Aviva also include its contractors.
What happened
After discovering a gas leak on 16 December 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva to make a 
claim under their home emergency policy. An engineer attended the following day and used 
a gas sniffer to roughly locate the leak. He identified that this was under the hallway flooring 
in a doorway where the hallway joined the dining room. The engineer needed more access 
to be able to determine exactly where the leak was, but removing the flooring wasnt covered 
under their home insurance policy.
Mrs B called Aviva on 18 December to find out how much of the flooring needed to be taken 
up. Theyd only had the flooring for 12 weeks and it had cost them £2,000 to fit, so they 
wanted to avoid having to take up more than was necessary. Aviva were unable to provide 
an answer at that time.
Mrs B called Aviva again on 19 December for an update but was told shed receive a
call back once Aviva had spoken to its contractors. Mrs B called again on 20 December for 
an update, but Aviva was still unable to reach the contractors. Mrs B raised a complaint as 
Christmas was approaching and the family had been without heating and hot water for four 
days. 
Mrs B called Aviva again on 21 December and was advised that due to the report
provided by the contractors the whole flooring would have to be taken up. On 22 December 
Mr and Mrs B had their flooring removed independently. They called Aviva asking
for the engineer to return but were told there was no availability until the end of December or
potentially the beginning of January. As they wouldnt have hot water or central heating 
during this time, they were authorised by Aviva to use their own engineer.
On 23 December their private engineer came to inspect and found no leak in the
hallway. Instead he found it in the dining room, three metres away from where the original
engineer had diagnosed the leak. He was able to fix the leak by taking up only a small
section of floor. Aviva says the original engineer wouldnt have known the gas leak was in
the dining room as there were no gas appliances there. A gas fire that had been there had 
been removed a year before.
Aviva reimbursed Mr and Mrs B £656.74 for their private engineers invoice plus interest on 
the paid amount. However Mr and Mrs B also want Aviva to pay for the lifting and 
replacement of the flooring which is going to cost them £1,960. Aviva has declined to cover 
this cost, so Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigators view on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was that Aviva had given them wrong 
advice about removing their hall flooring, which they relied upon. She was also of the view 
that the family was highly inconvenienced in not having heating, hot water or cooking 
facilities for seven days, and that the lack of updates from Aviva, especially as this occurred 
in the week before Christmas, wouldve been highly stressful. Her recommendation was that 
Aviva should reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the cost of replacing the floor and should also pay 
them compensation of £250.
BG doesnt agree with our investigators view and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen Avivas case notes. From these I can see that on 19 and 20 December Mrs B was 
chasing Aviva for a response to her question about how much of the hall floor needed to be 
taken up to gain access to repair the leak. They asked that only a small section of hall floor 
be taken up to confirm where the leak was coming from, as they were understandably 
concerned about the cost of taking up and then replacing their expensive new floor as this 
wasnt covered by their insurance. On 21 December Aviva contacted its contractors who 
said that as the supply pipe would need to be completely re-run the entire hall floor would 
need to be taken up.
Ive listened to a telephone call between Aviva and Mr and Mrs Bs engineer. He says that 
when he arrived, the new laminate flooring in the hall had been taken up but the floorboards 
were still in place. It took him three hours to find the source of the leak, which wasnt in the 
hall. It was from a joint in an old section of lead pipe under the floor in the dining room, some 
distance from the point Aviva had identified as the source. He was able to access this by 
lifting one piece of wooden flooring. This pipe had been capped off as it had supplied a gas 
fire that Mr and Mrs B had had removed about a year ago and which had been replaced with 
an open fire.
Mr and Mrs Bs engineer says that Avivas engineer hadnt gone into the dining room as 
there was no gas appliance in there, so no testing had been done in that room.
Mr and Mrs B say that Avivas engineer was aware that there had previously been a gas fire 
in the dining room which had been replaced by an open fire, as Mr B had discussed with him 
the safety of using the open fire for heating whilst their central heating was unavailable. They 
also say that Avivas engineer was aware that there were voids under the floorboards which 
allowed gas to blow around.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that Aviva told them they needed to take up the whole of their 
hall floor when this wasnt necessary because the leak was actually in another room that 
Avivas engineer hadnt checked. Its costing them £1,960 for the removal and refitting of 
what was a brand new floor. This wont be fitted until this month because of the lead time, so 
theyve been without a hall floor for roughly five months, quite unnecessarily. 
Having reviewed all the information provided to me, I agree with our investigators view.
Ive taken into account that this leak proved very difficult to find. The voids under the floor 
caused the traces of gas to migrate around, blown by the air vent in the dining room. Avivas engineer was aware of these. Mr and Mrs B are clear that Avivas engineer had also been 
told that there had been a gas fire in the dining room, but he didnt undertake any checks in 
that room as there were no gas appliances there.
In these circumstances, I consider that the instruction that Aviva gave Mr and Mrs B that the 
entire hall floor needed to be taken up was unreasonable. Theyd been told by their flooring 
contractors that a square metre could be removed and replaced safely which would have 
minimised damage to the floor. That would have allowed checking that the correct source of 
the leak had been identified. 
Further, the reason given for the need to take up the entire floor was to re-run the supply 
pipe. But until the source and cause of the leak had been identified, I think that saying what 
work was necessary was premature. The leak, when found, required only solder and 
capping off.
My conclusion is that it would be unfair to Mr and Mrs B for them to have to pay nearly 
£2,000 to replace a floor which didnt need to be taken up because Avivas engineer had 
misdiagnosed the source of the leak. I do accept that this leak was difficult to find but I dont 
consider that Mr and Mrs B should have to bear the cost of an error by Aviva in telling them 
to take up the whole floor to accommodate the re-run of a gas supply pipe when the source 
and cause of the leak had not yet been confirmed.
I also agree with our investigators view that Mr and Mrs B were caused considerable stress 
and inconvenience. Their family was without heating, hot water, and cooking facilities, and 
had to use the facilities of a relatives house. Christmas was also only a few days away, and 
they were understandably anxious to know what they were required to do to facilitate a 
repair as soon as possible. It took a number of days for Aviva to respond to their question 
about how much flooring needed to be taken up, and when this had been done, Aviva then 
wasnt able to provide an engineer until after Christmas. Fortunately, Mr and Mrs Bs own 
engineer was willing to interrupt his Christmas break to help them. I agree that £250 
compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to reimburse to Mr and Mrs B the cost of removing and   
replacing their hall flooring upon presentation of an invoice from their contractor.
I also require it to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman