DRN-4331432
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply overdraft charges to her joint account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss D held a joint account with her ex-husband with an overdraft facility with Santander. In 
July 2020 Miss Ds husband withdrew £4,000 from the account and from August 2020 the 
account became permanently overdrawn. 
Santanders notes record that in late October 2022 (two years later) Miss D got in touch with 
Santander and advised that her ex-husband had moved out of their marital property in 
November 2020 and that hed removed £4,000 from the account and stopped paying the 
mortgage and all other bills and that she had been continuing to pay the overdraft interest to 
protect her credit score. Miss D also advised that she was the victim of financial abuse and 
that she had been advised by her solicitor not to repay the overdraft as her ex-husband 
remained liable for the balance. Miss D asked if Santander could put a stop on the interest 
charges for her.
Santander advised Miss D that as the account was a joint account it couldnt remove either 
party from the account or close the account until the overdraft is paid back. It said it could 
put a plan in place which would stop the interest being applied and then once the overdraft 
was paid back the account could be closed  but that this would impact on Miss Ds credit 
file. Or, it could change the type of account to one where interest was capped at £20 but that 
the fee for this would be £30.
Miss D declined both these options and complained to Santander that she was unable to 
afford to pay the overdraft fees. Santander said it couldnt trace any calls from Miss D 
regarding the overdraft charges on the account and as it remains within the overdraft limit it 
was unable to reimburse or freeze the charges. But if the other joint account holder is 
preventing Miss D from accessing the account or stealing money, she should visit its 
customer support for financial abuse for help and guidance. 
The overdraft balance was repaid in full by Miss D a few days after this on 7 November 2022 
and the account was closed the following week. 
As Miss D remained dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial difficulties by 23 August 2021 
as the account had remained overdrawn for more than 12 months without the incomings to 
support it. They didnt think Santander went far enough to support her as it still continued to 
charge for the overdraft which impacted Miss Ds hardship further. 
They thought to put things right Santander should rework the joint account to remove all of 
the interest and charges added to the account from 23 August 2021. 
Santander disagreed  it says due to the credits to the account it didnt meet its criteria to 
enter its collections systems and that its processes were followed correctly. It says it offered 
a solution that wouldve helped Miss D reduce her costs but that she declined its help. So 
the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I was proposing not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further submissions before I reached a final decision. Both parties have confirmed they 
have received by decision and neither Santander or Miss D have added any new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Firstly, it should be noted that while I have considered this complaint without the joint 
account holders consent, any decision I make cant put them in a worse position and 
therefore the joint account holders rights to bring their own complaint are unaffected. 
Having considered everything provided, Im currently thinking of not upholding Miss Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Miss Ds main complaint point is regarding the charges applied to a joint account held with 
her ex-husband  she thinks they were unfair and wants a refund. She says it was a transfer 
out of the account of £4,000 by her ex-husband that caused the account to become 
overdrawn and that despite it being a joint account she was the only one paying the charges. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santander various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss D if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ds account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss D was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Miss D fairly 
and reasonably. And overall, I dont think that Santander did treat Miss D unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because having a detailed look at the statements for the account I 
can see up until Miss D and her husband separated the overdraft wasnt being used and 
although I accept after this the account became and remained overdrawn, I can also see that 
enough money was being transferred in to service the overdraft charges, joint bills and direct debts while keeping within the overdraft limit. I think this suggests the account was likely 
being maintained until a settlement was reached regarding Miss D and her ex-husbands 
financial affairs rather than financial difficulty.     
I also note that it was two years before Miss D got in touch with Santander and informed it 
about her circumstances and enquired about the options available regarding the overdraft 
charges and that Santanders call notes record that Miss D said she couldve paid off the 
overdraft earlier but was advised not to. So again, this suggests not financial difficulties but 
rather difficulties relating to a financial settlement. 
I appreciate Miss D thinks it is unfair she was the only one paying the charges for the 
overdraft facility considering the £4,000 withdrawal made by her ex-husband. But Miss D 
and her ex-husband held the account jointly which means they are both liable for the 
outstanding balance of the overdraft regardless of who spent the funds. Both were entitled to 
benefit from the use of the funds and Santander are entitled to charge for this facility. 
I also think the options Santander gave Miss D for managing the account going forward were 
fair:
1. The account could be changed to one where the interest was capped for a monthly 
fee; or
2. If Miss D was having financial difficulties an affordable payment plan could be set up 
to repay the overdraft and all charges and interest would be stopped, but this would 
be recorded on Miss Ds credit file.
This is in-line with what Id expect Santander to do. But Miss D didnt wish to continue to pay 
for the overdraft facility and didnt want her credit record affected so she declined both 
options and instead paid the outstanding balance of the overdraft off in full in a lump sum 
within days of contacting Santander  again not something I would expect to see if someone 
was having financial difficulties.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander treated Miss D 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Miss D disputes that Santander gave her the options outlined above but Im satisfied from 
the call log Santander provided that it did discuss these options with her. And as neither 
party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do not uphold 
this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint against Santander UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman