DRN-3567133
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Zopa Limited recorded a default marker on his credit file at the credit 
reference agencies. He would like them to remove it.
What happened
Mr T was granted a loan of £5,000 by Zopa in February 2020 over a term of five years with 
monthly repayments of £127.83.
Mr T called Zopa after he failed to make his loan repayment in September 2021. He told 
them he was struggling to make his repayments due to changes in his financial 
circumstances and was seeking help from a debt advice charity. 
Mr T says the debt advice charity had advised him to inform Zopa he should be able to repay 
any arrears and bring his repayments up to date by April 2022. He was planning to secure a 
re-mortgage to clear his debts, including the loan with Zopa.
Mr T says he received a text message from Zopa on 4 January 2022 informing him a notice 
of default would be issued and to avoid that, he should either repay the outstanding amount 
or call them. So, Mr T called Zopa on 5 January 2022. He says that Zopa told him he could 
repay what he owed and avoid the default. But they then changed their mind and told him a 
default had already been recorded on his credit file.
Mr T wasnt happy with Zopas actions, so he complained to them. He said theyd failed to 
communicate and hadnt told him they were issuing a default. He couldnt understand why 
their text message suggested a default hadnt yet been issued and recorded when it already 
had.
Zopa investigated Mr Ts complaint and responded on 12 January 2022. They said during 
telephone discussions with Mr T in October 2021, hed promised to address his arrears by 
making two separate payments in November and December 2021. But neither those 
payments nor Mr Ts contracted loan repayments were received as promised.
Zopa said theyd sent a Notice of Default to Mr Ts home address on 16 November 2021, but 
Mr T said he hadnt received that. Zopa apologised if the text message he received in 
January 2022 was misleading. They said this had been generated on 27 December 2021 but 
was delayed due to the bank holiday period. Zopa said theyd delayed issuing formal 
demand and registration of the default to allow him to fulfil his promise to pay. But as the 
promised payments werent received, they sent formal demand. They didnt agree theyd 
done anything wrong by recording a default.
Mr T wasnt happy with Zopas response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters to 
this service. Having considered Mr Ts complaint, our investigator didnt think Zopa had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators findings. He didnt believe Zopa had sent a default 
notice to him and wanted this service to obtain evidence of its despatch from Zopa. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ts complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information available, I dont think there is any dispute that Mr T failed to maintain 
repayments under the original loan agreement. However, in reaching my decision, I wanted 
to be clear about what Mr T told Zopa and what was agreed as a consequence.
Ive looked at the file notes Zopa recorded on their systems each time there was contact, or 
attempted contact, with Mr T. These show that Zopa attempted to call Mr T on numerous 
occasions during August, September and October 2021. They left voicemail messages for 
Mr T on at least 12 occasions before Mr T called them on 7 October 2021.
Ive listened to a recording of that call. Mr T told Zopa about his financial difficulties and his 
referral to a debt advice charity. Zopa were very clear that Mr Ts loan was one month in 
arrears. They clearly explained the consequences this would have on his credit file and that 
missing three repayments would lead to them sending a Notice of Default (NoD). They also 
said that missing four repayments would lead to a default being registered on Mr Ts credit 
file. Mr T confirmed he understood.
Ive listened to a further call recording from 29 October 2021. Zopa told Mr T that his loan 
was now two months in arrears. Mr T promised to clear half the arrears in November and the 
remainder by Christmas (2021). He also said he would make his contracted loan repayments 
in the meantime. Zopa recorded a promise to pay by 27 December 2021 on their file and 
confirmed this would stop further calls chasing payment. They explained to Mr T how he 
could make the payments over the telephone and also offered to provide bank details, if 
required. Zopa also reminded Mr T of the circumstances under which a NoD might be 
issued.
Zopas file notes show no further contact from Mr T until 5 January 2022. Despite Mr Ts 
assurances, Zopas files suggest they received no further payments from him. So, they sent 
him a NoD dated 16 November 2021, as three repayments had now been missed. Thats 
what I would expect them to do here.
Mr T says he didnt receive that letter. Zopa have provided this service with a copy. The 
letter appears to have been addressed correctly and supports both what they told Mr T and 
whats shown in their files at the time. So, while I acknowledge what Mr T says, I persuaded 
that the letter was sent. And by sending it, Zopa met their regulatory obligations. Even if it 
wasnt received by Mr T, I cant reasonably hold Zopa responsible as they wouldnt have had 
any control over its ultimate delivery to his address. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies. It says that as a general 
guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it appears Mr Ts 
account met this requirement. And as this is a default trigger, I think Zopa were obliged to 
issue a default notice and record this on Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T suggests hed told Zopa of his intention to re-mortgage and use the proceeds to repay 
what he owed them. Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ts call to Zopa on 5 January 2022. Mr 
T confirmed he told Zopa this during the call on 29 October 2021. I realise Mr T may be 
disappointed, but I dont agree. At no point during the calls in October 2021 did I hear Mr T 
mention his intention to re-mortgage. And even if he had, Zopa would still have been obliged 
to issue the NoD and record a default. They wouldnt have been able to defer that until Mr T 
arranged his re-mortgage in 2022.
I do appreciate that Mr Ts change in financial circumstances wouldve been a very difficult 
time for him. And I think he did the right thing by speaking with Zopa and seeking guidance 
and support from a debt advice charity. But it seems he didnt maintain repayments or repay 
the arrears as hed promised. So, I cant reasonably say that Zopa did anything wrong when 
they recorded a default. They were obliged to do that.Mr T is unhappy that a text message Zopa sent to him on 4 January 2022 suggested he 
could call them to stop the default being recorded on his credit file. He also said that during 
the call on 5 January 2022, Zopa at first told him a default hadnt been recorded. But later 
changed their mind. I accept the text message was potentially misleading. But, Im 
comfortable that Zopa have acknowledged and explained this in their final response to his 
complaint. 
While Mr T says he didnt receive the NoD, I dont think Zopas actions shouldve come as a 
surprise to him. Theyd been consistently clear about the circumstances under which a NoD 
would be issued and ultimately registered on his credit file. And while I realise Mr T will be 
disappointed, Im not persuaded that Zopa ultimately did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman