DRN-4102236
The complaint
Mr Y and Mrs T complain that esure Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy for a problem with their septic tank.
Reference to esure or Mr Y and Mrs T includes their respective representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr Y and Mrs T found their septic tank was damaged. They got in touch with a 
drainage company, D, about it.
D inspected the problem. It said the baffle had become detached and that had 
allowed waste scum to enter the drainage field and cause it to fail.
Mr Y and Mrs T made a claim to esure for the costs involved in putting the problem 
right. esure accepted the claim in principle. 
D carried out percolation tests and said the septic tank should be replaced with a 
sewage treatment plant and a drainage field. It quoted around £22,000 plus VAT for 
the work. And an additional £1,000 for the tests.
esure offered around £17,500 to settle the claim. This was the cost quoted by D, less 
the cost of the new drainage field and without VAT. It didnt agree to pay for the 
percolation test or the drainage field as it said neither was covered by the policy
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think esures offer 
was fair because it wouldnt provide an effective and lasting repair. To put things 
right, he asked esure to reconsider the offer for the drainage field and the percolation 
test and to pay £100 compensation.
esure said the drainage field was far older than its typical lifespan and should have 
been replaced, regardless of the recent problem. So it was happy with its offer. As it 
didnt agree to increase its offer, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the septic tank damage is covered by the policy. esure has made 
a cash offer to settle the claim which covers most of Ds quote. The only matters in 
dispute are whether the offer should be increased to include the drainage field and/or 
percolation test  and whether esure should pay compensation.
The policy doesnt cover damage to soakaways. Its arguable whether the 
arrangement at Mr Y and Mrs Ts property amounts to a soakaway or a drainage 
field. But I dont think that matters in this case. Ill explain why.
Even if the arrangement is a soakaway  and therefore any damage to it isnt 
covered by the policy  I must consider whether this position would produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
D was clear from the outset that the drainage field or soakaway had failed. It had 
become blocked by the scum and wasnt allowing waste to disperse from the septic 
tank and safely away as it ought to. esure appointed its own drainage contractor, who 
agreed with D about this.
So theres no doubt that the drainage field or soakaway in its current state is unable 
to perform as it should do. Whilst esure has referred to the age of the drainage field 
or soakaway, neither drainage contractor identified this as the primary cause of the 
problem. That gives the firm impression that the drainage field or soakaway was 
working effectively until the recent septic tank damage changed things.
esure is prepared to pay for a replacement tank and most of the associated costs. If 
Mr Y and Mrs T replaced the tank with the existing drainage field or soakaway, it 
seems likely  if not inevitable  that it wouldnt be able to drain household waste as 
it should. That means the drainage problem Mr Y and Mrs T claimed for wont have 
been resolved in a lasting and effective way. Im not satisfied that would put them in a 
fair and reasonable position. So Im not satisfied esures offer is fair.
To put things right, esure should pay for the new drainage field. I understand the 
percolation test was necessary to determine the specification of the drainage field. 
So I think esure should pay for that too. These costs total £5,450 without VAT.
The rest of the claim was settled without VAT on 4 October 2022. Had the claim been 
handled fairly, the settlement would have included this additional amount. So I think 
interest should be added to it.
After Mr Y and Mrs T had the work carried out, they returned to esure for the VAT. 
This was paid on 28 November 2022. Similarly to the point above, if £5,450 had been 
part of the settlement, the VAT of £1,090 on it would have been paid at this time. So I 
think interest should be added to it.
Our investigator suggested esure should pay £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused as a result of declining part of the claim. Mr Y and Mrs T 
agreed with that and esure hasnt challenged it. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay £5,450 and £1,090 to settle the claim.
Pay interest on £5,450 at 8% simple per year, from 4 October 2022 to the date of 
settlement*Pay interest on £1,090 at 8% simple per year, from 28 November 2022 to the date of 
settlement*
Pay £100 compensation.
*If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr Y and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Y 
and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman