DRN-3106712
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Age Partnership Limited arranged two equity release loans for her, 
however she believes her daughter has mis-managed her financial affairs and 
misappropriated her funds. 
Mrs S is being represented on this complaint by a legal representative who I will call Mr D. 
He has made the following complaints about Age Partnership:
They didnt exercise due diligence with respect to a third-partys involvement in the 
application for the loans;
They didnt exercise due diligence with respect to the first loan, whereby no 
breakdowns were provided for the sums required;
They didnt exercise due diligence when arranging the further advance specifically. 
They didnt question how the previous tranche of borrowing had been used, nor did 
they question why new borrowing was needed.
To put things right, Mrs S would like reimbursement of all the funds lost, fees and recovery 
fees paid and compensation.
What happened
On 12 September 2015, Mrs S and her daughter spoke to Age Partnership over the 
telephone to discuss releasing equity from Mrs S property. An application started on this 
date and a follow up call was then made to Mrs S and her daughter on 16 September.  
A total amount of £25,000 was agreed which was to be used for holidays, paying off some 
bills and debts, paying off an overdraft for £600 and money for Mrs S to gift to her 
granddaughter who was starting up her own business. A solicitor was involved as this was 
the first time that Mrs S had obtained a loan using the equity in her home and the funds were 
paid into Mrs S bank account on 26 October 2015. 
On 20 April 2016, Mrs S daughter contacted Age Partnership to enquire about borrowing 
further money. She said Mrs S wanted to borrow £10,000 and an application was started, 
with Mrs S present in the background. Mrs S daughter explained that Mrs S had received 
some bad news regarding her health, and she wanted to borrow further funds to go on a big 
family holiday. As this was for additional borrowing and with the same provider, a solicitor 
wasnt used for this transaction. The funds were transferred to Mrs S bank account on 23 
May 2016.
Mrs S daughter was appointed as Mrs S attorney for property and financial matters on 6 
October 2015 and this was registered on 7 January 2016. Mrs Ss daughter was 
subsequently removed by the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) after misconduct was 
identified in terms of her management of Mrs S affairs which extended to the potential 
misappropriation of Mrs S funds. Following her removal which was finalised on 20 
November 2020, Mr D, who is dealing with this complaint on behalf of Mrs S was appointed 
as deputy by the Court of Protection to investigate matters and to restore Mrs S estate by 
those orders. 
Mr D complained to Age Partnership about the equity release loans that Mrs S had taken out 
for the reasons listed above, as he believed that Age Partnership failed to exercise due 
diligence when dealing with both loans. 
He questioned many aspects in relation to those loans including Mrs S capacity to be able 
to deal with them, her health and the role that her daughter had played in them. 
Age Partnership responded to Mr D at length and in summary, didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said there were no concerns raised regarding Mrs S ability to enter into a lifetime 
mortgage and she seemed fully aware of what she was agreeing to. Age Partnership also 
said the solicitor that saw Mrs S also didnt raise any concerns. 
Mr D disagreed with what Age Partnership had said so brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that Age 
Partnership had any reason to believe that Mrs S was being coerced or being taken 
advantage of, so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator and in summary, made the following comments:
Mrs S was not consulted as to whether she preferred a face to face meeting or a 
discussion over the telephone. Instead, the daughter answered immediately for Mrs 
S indicating she wanted to get it done quickly. At this point, Age Partnership had 
seemingly not spoken to Mrs S nor is there evidence of this request being relayed to 
Mrs S
The sum of £25,000 is not justified and could not be deemed as reasonable. £600 of 
this was to pay off the overdraft which meant that £24,400 was to pay bills, a holiday 
and a gift to the granddaughter. But no rationale or explanation could be provided for 
how this figure was arrived at therefore not deemed reasonable. Age Partnership 
accept they have a duty of care to assess whether there is a need for funds, but its 
unclear how figures being plucked out of thin air are justified
The investigator failed to recognise that considering the purpose of the drawdown 
was for endeavors in future years, this could not be the optimum solution for a 
borrower due to the compounding interest. Age Partnerships role was not just to 
facilitate a loan, it was to provide financial advice which they clearly did not do
The investigator failed to address the fact that despite the solicitors informing Age 
Partnership that they were proceeding on the basis of there being no contact with 
Mrs S daughter (as she was benefiting), they had in fact dealt with her extensively 
since the outset and taken full instructions from her
Mr D, for clarity said that the he feels that Age Partnership failed to investigate, identify and 
protect Mrs S from undue influence, and failed to provide financial advice to her. 
As Mr D disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D, on behalf of Mrs S has provided very detailed information regarding this complaint and 
I understand Mrs S has very strong feelings about it.  I want to assure Mr D and Mrs S that I 
have taken into account everything they have said, but if there is something that I havent 
mentioned, its not because it hasnt been considered  it has, and I have thought very 
carefully about the arguments that have been made. 
Id firstly like to say that Im sorry to hear about the difficult time that Mrs S is having, and I 
appreciate things have been difficult for her. 
The crux of the matter here is that Mr D, on behalf of Mrs S, strongly believes that Mrs S 
daughter has mis-managed Mrs S finances which have resulted in Mrs S funds being used inappropriately. And if Age Partnership had made better enquiries or given Mrs S better 
advice, that would not have happened.
I do understand that Mrs S daughter was removed by the Office of Public Guardian which 
Mr D said was because mis-conduct had been identified regarding Mrs S financial affairs. I 
have seen a copy of the Court of Protection order and this does confirm that the Lasting 
Power of Attorney that had appointed Mrs S daughter had been suspended, and in turn 
would appoint Mr D to deal with Mrs S affairs under a separate order. There is no dispute 
that this happened. There were obviously some concerns regarding how Mrs S financial 
matters were being handled by her daughter, but what I need to think about, is what Age 
Partnership would have been aware of at the time that both equity release loans were taken 
out.
I have listened to all the telephone calls that we have been supplied with and have taken on 
board the comments that Mr D has made. In summary, I do not believe that Mrs S, at the 
time, didnt know what was going on and what she was entering into when discussions were 
had with Age Partnership. I will go on to explain why. 
The first call which took place was on the 12 September 2015 where Mrs S daughter, called 
Age Partnership to enquire about Mrs S releasing some money from her home. It was 
established that Mrs S wanted to borrow £25,000 to pay off her overdraft of £600, pay some 
bills and debts, to go on holiday and to gift some of the money to her granddaughter who 
was setting up her own business. 
Mr D has said that after listening to the calls, Mrs S wasnt given the option of having a face 
to face meeting. When the adviser asked Mrs S daughter whether they wanted to have a 
telephone discussion or for someone to attend their home, Mrs S daughter said they could 
speak to someone now. 
Mr Ds point is that Age Partnership should have specifically put that to Mrs S herself to 
confirm that was how she wanted to proceed. Having listened to the call myself, Mrs S was 
not consulted how she wanted to proceed with the application. Instead, her daughter said 
they would speak to someone over the telephone. 
However, Mrs S was in the background and when her daughter was asking her questions, 
she was responding and seemed to be aware of what was going on. While I appreciate that 
a face to face option wasnt given to Mrs S specifically, after listening to all the telephone 
calls and the interaction that Mrs S had on those calls, Im not quite sure what difference this 
would have made. Ive not heard anything to suggest that had Mrs S been asked that 
question directly she would have given a different answer. And Ive not heard anything that 
would have suggested to Age Partnership at the time that Mrs Ss daughter was not 
speaking on Mrs Ss behalf or that Mrs S did not want to proceed. And therefore Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for Age Partnership to go ahead with the application on the basis that 
Mrs Ss daughter was speaking for her mother with her knowledge and agreement. 
Its not been argued that Mrs S was unhappy with her daughters actions at this time  I 
appreciate that there have been later findings that she was not acting in Mrs Ss best 
interests, though it doesnt seem Mrs S was aware of this in 2015  and therefore I dont 
think that Age Partnership could have been expected to know that there might have been a 
problem.
Mr D also argues that Mrs S daughter was not able to breakdown how the £25,000 was 
going to be used. And prior to that, he argues that the sum of £25,000 appeared to be 
plucked out of thin air. On the call, the adviser asked how much Mrs S wanted to borrow. 
Mrs S daughter then asks Mrs S how much she wanted to borrow if she were to pluck a 
figure out of thin air. Mrs S replied and said, I told you what I want, dont you remember and 
then her daughter said, shall I say £25,000? to which Mrs S responded with yes. Although it may appear that this figure was decided on the spot, Mrs S was present, and she 
didnt disagree with £25,000  having said that she had already told her daughter what to 
ask for. She already had an idea of what she wanted to use the money for even though 
when asked, they couldnt give a specific breakdown. Mrs S knew she wanted to borrow 
money and when the adviser asked what the money was intended for, Mrs S daughter said 
it was to pay off her overdraft, bits and pieces, holiday and do a few things Mrs S wanted to 
do. 
When asked for a breakdown, Mrs S daughter said Mrs S wanted to give some money to 
her granddaughter and that Mrs S knew that the amount of £25,000 was right for her. The 
adviser kept asking how they got to that figure but then went on to explain that his reason for 
asking was to find out if it was better to set the loan up as a reserve so Mrs S can draw down 
the money as and when needed, or whether they wanted it as a lump sum. Mrs S daughter 
then said that Mrs S wanted it all at once. 
While the calls do confirm that a breakdown of the £25,000 couldnt be given, a reason for 
the funds overall was given. And Mrs S was present for the entire call and can be heard in 
the background. 
Im not persuaded that it was necessary for Age Partnership to require Mrs S to give a 
detailed breakdown, or account exactly for how the money would be split between the 
different purposes of borrowing. Age Partnership established that Mrs S wanted to borrow 
£25,000 and that her reasons for doing so were plausible and not unusual or inappropriate 
for equity release. I think that was enough to establish what she wanted to borrow.
Towards the end of the call Age Partnership spoke to Mrs S directly to make sure she 
understood the implications of equity release and compounding interest and she was also 
asked if she was happy with her daughter dealing with the whole thing. Mrs S then said that 
the equity release was her idea. The adviser then explained how equity release worked and 
Mrs S engaged in that conversation. She was then asked if she was happy for her daughter 
to deal with it and Mrs S said, my daughter will deal with it and if its not her, it will be my 
granddaughter. When the adviser asked about booking another appointment, Mrs S asked if 
it could be done sooner than what the adviser had said. And before Mrs S passed the phone 
back to her daughter, she said she had been sat beside her daughter during the call and that 
it was her idea. 
There is nothing on this call that would have given Age Partnership concerns that Mrs S was 
under any duress or being manipulated into arranging the loan, or that she did not want to 
take the borrowing. She was able to engage in the conversation and there was nothing to 
suggest that she lacked capacity to make her own decisions  and she made it clear she 
wanted her daughter to deal with it all on her behalf. 
It wasnt until 51 minutes into the call that the adviser confirmed directly with Mrs S that she 
wanted to proceed and was happy for her daughter to act on her behalf. While I would 
generally have expected that to happen at the start of the conversation not the end, I dont 
think that changes my overall conclusion that Mrs S was aware of the borrowing, wanted to 
proceed, and there was nothing that should have told Age Partnership otherwise.
Its a requirement for all equity release borrowing that lenders expect borrowers to get 
independent legal advice before taking out the loan. The solicitor does not advise on the 
suitability or amount of the mortgage  they do not offer financial advice. But they do ensure 
that the borrower understands the nature of what they are agreeing to and the terms they will 
be bound by. I can see that the lender required that to happen in this case and that a 
solicitor met Mrs S, gave her that advice and signed the appropriate certificate  meaning 
that the solicitor had no concerns that Mrs S didnt want or understand the mortgage. This 
reinforces my conclusion that there was nothing around the time of the sale that ought 
reasonably to have led Age Partnership to conclude that Mrs S didnt understand the 
mortgage, didnt agree to it or want it, or was being manipulated by her daughter.On the follow up call on 16 September 2015, the adviser said he had to speak to Mrs S and 
he asked if she had received the documentation. The adviser then went through the 
documents over the telephone while explaining the sections to Mrs S. Mrs S daughter was 
in the background.  
There was also a call made to Mrs S on 24 September 2015 where Mrs S was present on 
the call on her own, and her daughter was not with her on this day. Mrs S mentioned on this 
call that she was gifting some of the money to her granddaughter for her business. Mrs S 
seems to understand what she is doing with the money and I cant conclude that she wasnt 
aware of what was going on.
Following on from this, Mrs S daughter contacted Age Partnership again on 20 April 2016 to 
enquire about borrowing further funds. She explained that Mrs S had recently been 
diagnosed with cancer.  Mrs S was in the background and can be heard saying that she 
wants to go on a family holiday.  
The adviser did ask if all the money from the previous lump sum had been used up and Mrs 
S daughter explained that it had, that money was given to her and her daughter to set up a 
business, and that the business was taking some time to establish itself. Mrs S daughter 
said Mrs S used the money for what she wanted it for and paid the bills, but she explained 
that Mrs S hadnt expected the news about her health, so she said it was a shock. The 
reason Mrs S daughter gave for the money being used up over the last six months  and for 
wanting further borrowing - was reasonable and wouldnt mean that Age Partnership should 
have questioned it any further. 
The adviser explained that they would need to get a redemption statement and it could take 
around a month to arrange. Mrs S took the phone at this point and said she was unhappy 
about this timescale. Mrs S then explained she may not be here much longer. She was 
clearly unhappy that the money would not be available any quicker.  It is plausible that Mrs S 
wanted the money to come through as quickly as possible because she said she had been 
diagnosed with cancer, and she had already said she wanted to take her family on holiday 
while she could  so there is nothing here that would suggest that Age Partnership should 
have had any concerns. 
Having listened to all the calls with regards to both loans, Im satisfied that there is nothing 
that would have given Age Partnership any indication that Mrs S was being taken advantage 
of. Mrs S was present in all the calls and also discussed what she intended to do with the 
money on one of the calls when she was by herself. She participated fully in the 
conversations and based on what was discussed, everything was reasonable and plausible. 
Im satisfied that Age Partnership arranged the borrowing Mrs S asked for on the terms she 
wanted, and it had no reason to believe otherwise.
Mr D questions why Age Partnership didnt request bank statements as this would have 
highlighted that the money from the first loan had gone to Mrs S daughter. Having look at 
the statements I do agree that some of this money was paid to Mrs S daughter, but Mrs S 
said she was giving some of this money to her granddaughter to set up her own business. 
And having looked at the statements before the first loan of £25,000 was paid in, the 
transactions do not appear to look any different. There were lots of cash withdrawals and 
lots of transactions for the purchase of alcohol. Mr D questioned this because Mrs S 
daughter told Age Partnership on the first call, that her mother didnt drink. But the 
statements before the loan showed the transactions for alcohol so this wouldnt have made 
any difference. 
I have also considered Mrs S medical history as Mr D explained that the history shows that 
in April 2014, the doctors said that they had some concerns over her memory. The notes 
suggest that an assessment was to be done but the notes do not show that this was carried 
out anytime after that. I dont think its reasonable to suggest that Age Partnership would 
have been aware of that. There isnt any evidence from the telephone calls that would suggest that Mrs S didnt have capacity to deal with things so I cant say that Age 
Partnership did anything wrong in not obtaining any medical records.
Mr D has raised concerns that despite the solicitors informing Age Partnership that they 
were proceeding on the basis of there being no contact with Mrs S daughter (as she was 
benefiting), they had in fact dealt with her extensively since the outset and taken full 
instructions from her. Having looked at the email that Mr D is referring to, the email itself is 
from the solicitor. The solicitor is explaining that they didnt have any contact with Mrs S 
daughter because she was benefiting from some of the funds. They didnt mean that it was 
Age Partnership that said they didnt have any contact with the daughter, but for the solicitor 
themselves. The solicitor is also aware from the email Ive seen, that Mrs S daughter had 
been directly involved with helping Mrs S and is benefiting from the transaction.
Part of the process for equity release mortgages is for an independent solicitor to verify that 
the borrower, Mrs S in this situation, understands the implications of equity release and what 
it means for their estate. Its therefore reasonable that the solicitor would only deal with Mrs 
S in this situation - hence the email.
Im aware that Mrs Ss daughter was later removed as power of attorney following concerns 
about whether she was acting in her mothers best interests or managing her money 
appropriately. Ive taken that into account  but its not clear whether or not that was the 
case in 2015. And in determining this complaint, I am not deciding whether Mrs S has 
grounds to complain about the actions of her daughter. This complaint is solely about the 
actions of Age Partnership and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in arranging the 
borrowing in 2015 and 2016. Based on what it knew and ought reasonably to have known at 
the time, Im satisfied that there was nothing to give it cause for concern at that time.
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied that Age 
Partnership acted fairly when conducting Mrs S equity release applications, and so I cannot 
fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman