DRN-4365351
The complaint
W complains Covea Insurance plc avoided its business protection policy and declined to 
cover its claim under the directors and officers section.
W is represented in bringing this complaint by its director. Ill call him Mr M.
What happened
W ran a business under a franchise agreement with a third party. Mr M arranged insurance 
for Ws business through a broker that started in mid-February 2020. An insurer, that Ill call 
Insurer A, provided the LEI cover. Covea provided business protection insurance that 
included directors and officers (D&O) cover. The Covea policy renewed in February 2021.
In August 2020 the third party issued legal proceedings against W, Mr M and others in 
relation to the franchise agreement. W submitted a claim to Insurer A. They declined the 
claim on grounds the LEI policy didnt cover disputes relating to franchise agreements. In 
around October 2020 W served a defence to the third partys claim. An amended defence 
and counterclaim were served in around September 2021.
In late May 2021 W made a claim under the D&O section of the Covea policy for cover in 
relation to the legal proceedings. Covea declined the claim on grounds of late notification 
and breach of policy terms and conditions. They said the proceedings were about events 
that had happened in 2019/2020  including Ws liability for management service fees 
(MSFs) - which had been going on since August 2020. Theyd been deprived of the chance 
of investigating liability when the allegations were first made. And in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the policy, W had failed to notify them of the claim and taken steps in the 
proceedings by serving a defence.
Mr M complained but Covea continued to decline the claim. Mr M brought Ws complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. That complaint was resolved on the basis Covea would 
continue to deal with Ws claim by appointing a loss adjuster to investigate, whilst reserving 
their rights to decline the claim for late notification.
Covea reviewed their position following the loss adjusters report. They said the legal 
proceedings and surrounding circumstances made it clear there had been a dispute that   
pre-dated the policy. That was a material fact W should have disclosed to comply with its 
obligations to present the risk fairly. Covea wouldnt have offered cover at all if theyd known 
the position and they avoided the policy from the start. W had also failed to tell Covea at 
renewal about the proceedings that had been issued in August 2020. If theyd known about 
them, they would have refused to renew the policy. They werent notified until May 2021. 
And even if the policy had been in place, they would have declined the claim anyway based 
on breaches of policy conditions and exclusions.
Mr M said there were no grounds to avoid the policy. There was no pre-existing dispute as 
Covea had suggested and the proposal form had been signed in good faith. Hed understood 
hed notified Covea of the claim as well as Insurer A when hed initially submitted a claim 
form, so it wasnt fair to say it had been notified late.
Covea didnt change their minds and Mr M complained again. But Covea confirmed their 
policy decision was correct. So, Mr M brought Ws new complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator came to the view there was a pre-existing dispute W should have told 
Covea about. But Covea had failed to provide sufficient evidence this was a breach that 
would have led to it refusing cover. In the circumstances, it wasnt fair to find the policy 
should be avoided from the start. Covea should reinstate the policy, confirm theyd done so 
in writing and update relevant databases to remove reference to the avoidance.
Our investigator noted Covea relied on certain exclusions. She said it wasnt clear W had 
been aware of a claim as defined in the policy before it took the policy out. And Covea had 
failed to show it had been prejudiced by the late notification. But she said the claim wasnt 
covered anyway since W couldnt claim under the D&O section, only the directors could.
Covea didnt agree our investigators view about avoidance but agreed to take the action 
shed suggested and otherwise accepted the outcome. Mr M on behalf of W didnt agree. 
Since the complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued 
a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about whats happened. Im aware hes raised the 
possibility of claiming on the D&O policy in his capacity as a director of W. To be clear, Im 
not addressing that issue. Im only considering Ws complaint about Coveas decision to 
avoid the policy and decline its claim under the D&O section.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. As Ive already summarised 
the key events above, Ill focus here on the reasons for my decision. Ive come to an 
outcome thats broadly the same as our investigators. But since it differs in part, Im issuing 
a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments before I 
come to a final decision.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect an insurer to consider claims 
promptly and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ill consider Ws complaint 
against that background using headings to make things simpler.
Fair presentation of risk
It was a term of the policy that W should make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out 
the policy and at renewal. It said:
If You fail to make a fair presentation of the risk including failing to disclose or 
misrepresenting a material fact, or disclosing material facts to Us in a way which is 
not clear and accessible.
We may avoid this policy and refuse all claims where:
a) such failure was deliberate or reckless; or
b)We would not have entered into this policy on any terms had You made a fair 
presentation of the risk.And it went on to explain what would happen if the policy was avoided.
Its reasonable for an insurer to be presented with information before a policy starts and at 
renewal that might affect whether or not to provide the insurance and/or the terms and 
conditions it might agree to and/or the premium it might charge.
Section 4 of the proposal form required W to confirm certain statements about claims and 
losses were true including, broadly, that there hadnt been any claims against W, its directors 
or employees in the last five years. And if W was unable to comply with the statement, it was 
required to declare that as material information at section 7. W didnt provide any information 
at section 7. Mr M signed the declaration in February 2020 before the policy began.
Covea say W/Mr M knew about the dispute with the third party when Mr M signed the 
proposal form, they failed to give a fair presentation of risk and Covea wouldnt have offered 
the policy if theyd known the position.
Ive considered what Mr Ms said about the definition of claims and MSFs not being in 
dispute when the policy was taken out. But I cant reasonably ignore the fact Mr M signed 
the statement of truth to the defence in the court proceedings on Ws behalf. Its reasonable 
to think that the information the defence set out is accurate. And it was reasonable for Covea 
to conclude from the defence that there was a dispute in relation to the December 2019 and 
January 2020 MSF invoices that predated the start of the policy that W was aware of, even if 
other issues in the legal proceedings were only raised at a later date.
W ought to have disclosed that dispute to Covea. So, the declaration in the proposal form 
was inaccurate. That said, based on Mr Ms evidence and bearing in mind the policy terms 
about fair presentation of risk, I dont think it was deliberate or reckless. So, Ive thought 
about whether Covea have provided sufficient evidence that they would have declined cover 
if theyd known about the dispute.
Although our investigator asked them to, Covea havent produced any criteria, a statement 
from a senior underwriter or other evidence to confirm the non-disclosure induced them into 
offering insurance they wouldnt otherwise have offered. Since its up to them to prove that, I 
dont think its fair to reach the conclusion they wouldnt have offered insurance at all if theyd 
known about the dispute.
Mr Ms evidence is contradictory about why he didnt pursue the policy claim after Insurer A 
had declined cover. But, on balance, I dont think he gave any more thought to it until May 
2021. I dont think the failure to declare the ongoing proceedings at renewal was deliberate 
or reckless. Again, Covea havent provided sufficient evidence to show they would have 
declined to renew the policy.
In the circumstances, I think Covea should reinstate the policy so that there is no gap in 
cover, confirm to W in writing that they have done so and take appropriate action to remove 
any reference to the avoidance from internal and external databases and other records.
From the information Mr Ms provided, theres no evidence of any impact on Ws insurance 
options as a direct result of the avoidance. Mr M says he had some difficulties in getting 
insurance for W, but its premiums dont appear to have been substantively higher. And I 
need to bear in mind that W would have had to declare the ongoing litigation in taking out 
insurance later on, which is likely to have affected its renewal terms in any event. In the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to ask Covea to compensate W.
Since I think Covea unfairly avoided the policy and should reinstate it, Ill go on to consider 
whether it was reasonable for Covea to decline the claim.Policy cover
Under the terms of the Covea policy W had, amongst other things, D&O liability cover under 
section 9. It said:
1. Directors and Officers Liability
We agree, subject to the terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions of this Section, 
to pay on behalf of an Insured Person in respect of his liability for:
a) compensatory damages and costs awarded against such Insured Person by 
a court of tribunal to do so; or
b) 
c) multiple, exemplary or punitive damagesawarded by a court or tribunal; 
or
d) settlements comprising any actual or anticipated legal proceedings made with 
the Insurers prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably 
withheld); arising solely from a Claim first made during the Period of 
Insurance, except to the extent that the Company has indemnified the 
Insured Person in respect of that Claim.
2. Company Reimbursement
We agree, subject to the terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions of this Section, 
to indemnify the Company to the extent it has lawfully indemnified an Insured 
Person for a Claim otherwise Insured under Cover clause 1 of this Section.
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that where cover is provided for this section 
You have complied with any subjectivities or condition precedents set out in Our 
quotation, unless We agree in writing and endorsed to the Schedule that any such 
subjectivity or condition precedent shall not be applicable to the Insured.
Insured meant the Company [W] and the Insured Person.
Insured Person meant, in summary, the directors, officers and employees of W, so 
included Mr M as director of W, but not W itself.
Under Clauses the policy said:
In respect of Claims covered by this Section We also agree, subject to the terms, 
conditions, limitations and exclusions of this policy, to pay Defence Costs and Expenses 
which are incurred by an Insured Person with Our prior written consent in the defence, 
negotiation and settlement of any Claim.
In broad terms the D&O section of the policy provided cover for any damages and third party 
costs a court might award or Covea might agree should be paid to settle a claim against    
Mr M and the costs of defending any claim that Mr M might incur. There was no cover for the 
costs of pursuing a counterclaim. And the cover didnt extend to W.Section 9 did provide W with cover in respect of any damages and third party costs for which 
W had lawfully reimbursed Mr M. But it didnt cover any defence costs W had paid on      
Mr Ms behalf. So, the policy would only respond to Ws claim if it reimbursed Mr M for any 
third party damages and costs he became liable to pay and subject to the conditions set out.
From what I understand, W hasnt reimbursed Mr M for any third party damages or costs. 
And even though W may have paid the costs of the solicitors defending the claim on its and 
Mr Ms behalf, W isnt covered for those costs under the policy. So, W has no claim under 
the policy.
Even if Im wrong about that, and W does have a claim, I dont think Covea has to pay it. 
Only defence costs and expenses incurred with Coveas prior written consent were covered 
under the policy. As far as Im aware, Covea hasnt authorised any costs and expenses 
here.
In addition, I think Covea fairly relied on other conditions and exclusions to decline the claim 
as Ill explain.
Policy conditions and exclusions
Section 9 was subject to terms that were specific to section 9 as well as the general 
definitions, general conditions, claims conditions and general exclusions applying to the 
policy overall.
Under Definitions section 9 said:
This section of the policy is on a Claims made basis. It applies only to Claims first 
made against the Insured during the Period of Insurance and notified to Us during 
the Period of Insurance or within 30 days thereafter.
Ive noted Mr Ms point that a claim as defined in the policy hadnt arisen until after the policy 
began. But the court proceedings were issued in August 2020 and included claims against 
W and Mr M. So, a claim had been made during the 2020/2021 policy period which began 
on 12 February 2020. And W had to notify the claim to Covea by mid-March 2021 to comply 
with the policy terms. Since it didnt notify them until May, the claim was notified late.
In addition, the general policy conditions said W must notify Covea immediately of any 
impending civil proceedings. The claim was set out in a letter from the third party in late 
February 2020. It wasnt notified to Covea straight away. And W was in breach of that 
condition.
Even though Mr M thought hed followed the right process in completing and submitting an 
Insurer A claim form, Covea werent told about the claim at the time. Since they werent 
responsible for that, it wouldnt be fair to treat the claim as if it had been notified to Covea on 
time.
In line with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules, wed expect an insurer to show 
theyd been prejudiced by a late notification before they could decline the claim on that 
basis.
Here Covea say by the time they were notified the proceedings had gone beyond pleadings, 
W had made various offers, and had initiated a counterclaim without referring to them. 
Theyd lost the chance of resolving the matter quickly and costs had grown significantly.     
Mr M said W had put in a valid and strong defence. And Covea had had the chance to be 
involved in the counterclaim as it wasnt served until October 2021, but they declined.Ive considered the loss adjusters report. Ive noted W made attempts to settle the claim. 
Ive thought about the judges comments that the parties costs were already 
disproportionate when it gave directions in September 2021. And Ive noted the costs of 
making a counterclaim werent covered under the policy.
Covea had the right under the policy to take over and conduct in Ws name the defence or 
settlement of any claim or to pursue a claim at their own expense. Its reasonable to think 
Covea would have wished to have input into the case to control the costs incurred and their 
potential liability to pay the third partys damages and costs if its claim against Mr M 
succeeded. I cant be certain it would have been possible to reach a settlement. But, on 
balance, I think Covea would have tried to bring about settlement on commercial terms at an 
early stage if theyd been involved sooner. Since they were prevented from doing that, and 
the parties positions are likely to have become more entrenched as the proceedings have 
gone on, its reasonable to say Coveas position is likely to have been prejudiced.
I also think Covea can reasonably decline the claim based on exclusion 4 in the D&O 
section, which said there was no cover for:
4. Existing Claims
a) notified or arising out of facts or any circumstance notified (or which ought to have 
been notified) under any previous policy;
b) made, threatened or intimidated against the Insured prior to the commencement of 
the Period of Insurance;
c) directly or indirectly arising out of facts or a circumstance of which the Insured first 
became aware prior to the Period of Insurance, and which the Insured knew or 
ought reasonably to have known had the potential to give rise to a Claim under this 
policy;
As Ive explained, based on the defence, there was a dispute about the MSFs that            
pre-existed the policy and which formed part of the later court proceedings. Its reasonable to 
think that W was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware that it might lead to a claim 
under the policy. So, I think its fair for Covea to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
In addition, claims condition 3 said:
Action by The Insured
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that You shall on the happening of any 
incident which would result in a claim under this policy:

(d) make no offer without Our written consent(e) inform Us immediately of any  civil proceedings and send to Us immediately 
every relevant document

(g) produce to Us such books of account or other business books or documents or 
such other proof as may reasonably be required by Us for investigating or verifying 
the claim.
I agree with Covea that W was in breach of this condition since it hadnt told Covea about 
the legal claim, it had been involved in negotiations that hadnt produced a settlement and it 
had taken formal steps in the proceedings. Given the stage the proceedings had reached 
and the points Ive made about prejudice, it was reasonable for Covea to rely on this 
condition too in declining the claim.
Bearing everything in mind, in summary, I think Covea should reinstate the policy. But, from 
what I understand, the circumstances that might give rise to a claim under the policy dont 
currently exist. And, even if they did, for the reasons Ive set out, I think Covea can fairly 
decline the claim.
My provisional decision
I uphold Ws complaint in so far as it relates to the avoidance of the policy. To put things 
right Covea Insurance plc should reinstate Ws policy so that there is no gap in cover, 
confirm to W in writing that they have done so and take appropriate action to remove any 
reference to the avoidance from internal and external databases and other records.
Covea arent liable to meet Ws claim since W isnt covered under the D&O section of the 
policy unless and until they legally reimburse the Insured Persons as defined in the policy 
for any damages and costs they become liable to pay the third party. Even if W had a valid 
claim for defence costs theyd paid on Mr Ms behalf under that section, Covea could fairly 
decline it since they hadnt authorised any of the costs incurred. In any event, Covea have 
fairly declined the claim overall because of Ws breaches of the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Developments
Mr M responded to my provisional decision on behalf of W. In summary, he made the 
following points:
1. From what I understand, W has reached or is negotiating a settlement with the third 
party under which W and Mr M will have to pay some costs.
2. Covea didnt authorise costs as things didnt reach that stage since they didnt accept 
the claim. W and Mr M still have a valid claim.
3. Covea havent explained to W how their position has been prejudiced. By the time 
Covea were notified, only the defence had been filed; permission to file a 
counterclaim was requested later. Covea werent prejudiced by late notification since 
W was in the early stages of litigation and they were notified soon after a strong 
defence had been filed. Mr M thinks Covea were in a much better position then to 
reach a settlement but chose not to. Another insurer agreed to pay the costs of 
another defendant to the third partys claim in similar circumstances.4. The evidence W has provided relating to previously unpaid MSFs not being chased, 
the extension of the franchise agreement in February 2020 and the third party not 
asking for payment until August 2020 show there was no pre-existing dispute about 
the MSFs that W should have disclosed. 
Covea have sent us confirmation from a senior underwriter that had Covea been aware of 
the true position and been presented with all the information they would not have offered 
cover at all. 
Ill now go on to give my final decision bearing in mind what the parties have said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr M has raised in response to my provisional decision carefully. 
As Ive said, Im only considering Ws complaint, not Mr Ms position.
I appreciate W may be responsible for some costs under the terms of the settlement 
agreement its been negotiating with the third party, although its not clear what those costs 
are. I note too Mr Ms point that since the claim hadnt been accepted by Covea, they werent 
in a position to authorise any costs. But I dont think that affects the outcome of the 
complaint. As I explained, W had limited cover. And, in any event, I still think Covea declined 
the claim fairly for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I explained why I didnt think Covea should be held responsible for the late notification and 
theres no new information that leads me to change my mind about that. 
Im not persuaded to change my mind either that Coveas position was prejudiced. Ive noted 
what Mr Ms said about how a different insurer acted, but I need to consider the individual 
circumstances of Ws case here. I appreciate the court proceedings were at a fairly early 
stage. And Mr M considers W had a strong defence to the claim putting Covea in a good 
position to negotiate. But thered been activity in relation to the dispute before that. And, for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I still think Coveas position was prejudiced 
by what had already happened.
Mr M hasnt made any substantively new points about why he says the MSFs werent in 
issue before August 2020. And Ive previously noted Mr M signed a statement of truth to the 
defence from which it was reasonable for Covea to conclude they had been. Im not 
persuaded to change my conclusion that W ought to have notified Covea about that before it 
took out the policy.
I appreciate Covea providing confirmation from a senior underwriter that they wouldnt have 
offered cover if theyd been aware of all the facts. But they havent provided any reasons. 
Without more, Im not persuaded to change my mind about the avoidance.
Bearing everything in mind, I see no reason to change my provisional outcome. For the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision I uphold the complaint in part. 
Putting things right
Covea Insurance plc should reinstate Ws policy so that there is no gap in cover, confirm to 
W in writing that they have done so and take appropriate action to remove any reference to 
the avoidance from internal and external databases and other records.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Covea Insurance plc to 
take the action Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman