DRN-1706950
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss M  says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 2003, it was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Miss M said, in summary, that she was eligible to 
get sick pay at the time she took out the card and PPI and she also had life insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. Miss M said she was 
told she would get 20% store discount if she took out the store card and PPI wasnt 
explained to her. 
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ms store card application form. The form had a separate 
section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected and Miss M signed to say she 
wanted PPI. As Miss M was signing an important financial document, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect her to take the time she needed to read over the form before signing it. 
The paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional. So I think its likely AXA made it clear 
that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss M got clear information so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss M has told us she wouldve got sick pay from her employer for up to 12 months 
and had no savings. The PPI would have paid on top of Miss Ms sick pay and possibly for 
longer than her work benefits wouldve covered her for. The policy wouldve paid up to 15% 
of her balance until she was no longer sick or her balance was cleared. Overall, I still think 
the PPI could have been useful to her.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she couldve benefited 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Miss M has lost out because of anything 
that AXA did wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman