DRN-2087104
The complaint
Mr F brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife, Mrs F. He says Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has unreasonably refused his claim for death 
benefit under Mrs Fs life assurance policy. Instead, it has voided the policy on the grounds 
of misrepresentation. Mr F believes LV would have insured Mrs F, and it should pay a claim 
to him now.  
What happened
Mrs F applied for a life assurance policy with LV through a third party broker. This was 
undertaken by telephone on 30 April 2018. The application was accepted and the policy 
started on the same day. It was set up to provide £200,000 of level life cover for a ten-year 
term.  
In March 2019, Mrs F sadly passed away. Mr F therefore made a claim under her policy.
When LV assessed the claim, it asked her doctor for a medical report. Consequently, it 
found that Mrs F had been diagnosed with a type of invasive breast cancer in March 2017. 
However, there had been no mention of this within her policy application.  
On 3 October 2019, LV told Mr F that it was unable to pay the claim. It explained that if Mrs 
F had told it about her breast cancer diagnosis, it would not have been able to offer her 
insurance at that time. It said it followed the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of 
Practice on Misrepresentation which meant that in accordance with the Code it had 
cancelled the policy and there was no return of premiums due to Mrs Fs estate.
Mr F complained. On 16 October 2019, LV told Mr F that it wasnt willing to change its mind 
about the claim. It reiterated that Mrs F had said no to a number of questions where she 
ought to have said yes and disclosed her cancer diagnosis. If she had done so, then it 
would have obtained further information that Mrs F had refused any treatment for her 
condition. Since its underwriting said it could not offer cover until after treatment had been 
completed, it would have declined to insure Mrs F in 2018.  
LV said it was entitled to cancel the policy from the outset because it had decided that Mrs F 
acted deliberately or recklessly when failing to answer questions on the policy. It said this 
because it had been mindful of the ABI Code and its claims team concluded that Mrs F must 
have known that the information given was incorrect but that it was relevant to LV.
Mr F lodged the complaint with this service. In his complaint form, he noted that LV said it 
could not insure Mrs F at all because she had cancer. He said to refuse insurance to a 
person with a disability under the Equality Act 2010 was unlawful and LV should not have 
been allowed to do so. This has left him in a position caring for five children without receiving 
the insurance payment they should have received.  
Further, he does not believe that Mrs F having had cancer would have affected the overall 
decision to offer her insurance. Mr F said he took the view that it would have instead affected 
the price or amount of cover offered to her.  
Mr F also said that his wife did not pass away because of cancer. She died as a result of an 
acute type of pancreatitis. He believes since her death had nothing to do with cancer, LV is 
simply looking for a way to avoid paying out on the policy.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint. She asked Mr F for more information about Mrs Fs 
cancer diagnosis and asked LV to explain further its reasoning for classing Mrs Fs actions 
as deliberate or reckless. She also obtained recordings of the telephone application with the 
third party broker. 
Having done so, the investigator concluded the complaint should not succeed. She felt that 
Mrs Fs actions did amount to a qualifying misrepresentation, which could fairly be classified 
as deliberate or reckless in the circumstances. That was since Mrs F had told the broker no 
when asked directly if she had ever had any form of cancer.  
Though he had no further submissions to make, Mr F said he wanted his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
LV confirmed it had no other comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I wish to pass my condolences to Mr F. I can see that he has gone 
through an incredibly difficult time and Im sorry to learn how things have been for him and 
his children. I have taken on board everything he has said, along with the evidence from LV. 
I know that my decision is going to be upsetting for Mr F. But I have to be fair to both parties 
in a complaint. Having reviewed everything carefully, I agree with the outcome reached by 
our investigator and for the same reasons. I wont therefore be asking LV to pay Mr Fs 
claim, because it couldnt have insured Mrs F in the first place. Ill explain my reasons below.
I also appreciate a separate complaint has been pursued against the third party broker. I 
cannot consider that here, as this complaint concerns the actions of LV as the insurer.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what LV has done. When it received the medical information to process Mr 
Fs claim, it noted that metastatic breast cancer was set out on Mrs Fs death certificate.  
I realise that Mr F feels that was unfair. Throughout this complaint, he has said that cancer 
being listed secondarily on the certificate means it wasnt a cause of Mrs Fs death and LV is 
merely latching on to that in order to find a reason to refuse a claim.  
However, though Mr F feels strongly about it, that simply isnt the case. I do not dispute that 
Mrs Fs cause of death was a type of pancreatitis, which sadly led to organ failure. LV 
doesnt dispute this either. What it did was note that there was a secondary listed illness on 
Mrs Fs death certificate. When the second part of a death certificate is completed, it will 
include any other significant condition contributing to death but not related to the disease or 
condition causing it. This might be relevant to an insurer if it gives it reasonable cause to review a policyholders medical history from the period before their insurance began.    
LV reviewed what Mrs F had said when competing her policy application in April 2018, given 
she hadnt mentioned any type of cancer at that time, but eleven months later there was 
record of advanced stage metastases of her breast cancer. It did this in accordance with 
relevant law on consumer disclosures  and I can see our investigator has explained that 
law to Mr F. The law says expressly that an insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a 
misrepresentation made by the consumer before a consumer insurance contract was 
entered into. For that reason, LV has reasonably determined what ought to have happened 
in 2018.  
So, it falls to me to look at what Mrs F was asked and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation or not. When Mrs F completed the application by telephone, she was 
asked the following:
Have you ever had a brain or spinal tumour or any form of cancer?
Other than for conditions that you've already told us about, in the last 2 years have 
you:
Been under follow-up with your GP surgery, or a specialist, hospital or clinic 
including reviews or check-ups that youve been asked to attend even if you 
didnt attend?
Been referred to a specialist or had or been advised to have any medical 
investigations?
Mrs F said no to all of the questions. 
When initially asked further by our investigator, Mr F said that Mrs F did not incorrectly 
answer no to the specified questions on the form. He therefore felt there had been some 
discord between what Mrs F said to the third party adviser and what ended up on the 
application to LV.  He felt this must be the case because Mrs F hadnt signed the copy of the 
policy application.  
However, our investigator obtained a copy of the call recording which confirmed Mrs F had 
not supplied any positive responses to the questions above.  
In my view, Mrs F should have answered yes to the three questions above. 
Mr F has explained that Mrs F knew she had cancer, and he accepted she was diagnosed in 
March 2017. She had discovered a breast lump the previous month and attended her GP, 
following which a fast-track cancer referral was made. Mr F said she was told by the 
consultant in March 2017 that her condition was terminal and because of the nature of her 
type of breast cancer there was no cure. 
It is not known why Mrs F didnt tell LV that she had been to the GP, that she had attended 
hospital, clinics and that she had been referred to an oncologist. I can see Mr F realises that 
Mrs F should have done so. And whilst any concerns he has about the broker may sit with a 
complaint to that business, Mrs F didnt tell the broker about her diagnosis either. 
Further, LV wrote to Mrs F about the answers she had given. Mr F says she received the 
application, but she didnt have anything to sign or complete. I recognise that, but I do think 
LV explicitly set out what would happen if there were wrong answers in the policy 
application. That letter, entitled The information you have provided said:This is the information that has been provided to us about you and upon which we 
have relied to process your cover. This information forms the basis of a contract 
between yourself and LV. 
It is your responsibility to ensure that the information contained within this document 
is complete and accurate. You should not assume that we will write to your doctor, or 
that your doctor will provide the information we need to process your cover.  
If you find any errors in this information you must inform us immediately on [number]. 
Failure to do so may result in your policy being cancelled and no claim being paid.
The medical evidence in the weeks following Mrs Fs diagnosis shows that Mrs F did not 
attend or respond to multiple oncology, genetic testing and breast clinic appointments made 
for her. She also did not engage with the offer of treatment, such as chemotherapy.   
Mr F has explained how Mrs F had mitigating reasons for her actions, namely that she had 
been informed that she couldnt have treatment safely if she wished to undergo another 
pregnancy, and that treatment could have adverse effects such as destroying healthy cells. 
This meant Mr and Mrs F decided to delay any treatment until after she had given birth. 
Mrs F had pre-arranged surgery following her pregnancy and therefore did engage with the 
treating doctors when she was able to do so. Sadly, it was complications arising from 
surgery for a mastectomy which led to the conditions causing her death.  
That Mrs F decided not to have treatment for her cancer right away was a choice for her 
only, and not a consideration in my findings. But, it did not mean she could disregard her 
diagnosis when answering factual medical questions put to her for the means of securing a 
life assurance policy as there was a requirement that she answer the questions accurately 
and to the best of her knowledge. 
An insurer is allowed to decide what risk it will accept and for what price. To determine that, 
it needs an accurate picture of an applicants medical circumstances. LV therefore 
retrospectively assessed what its decision would have been in April 2018 if Mrs F had told it 
about her diagnosis.  
LV has supplied this service with the underwriting guidelines which applied at the time Mrs F 
sought her policy in April 2018. I can assure Mr F that I have carefully reviewed the contents. 
That guidance sets out clearly that it will insure applicants with a history of breast cancer, but 
only after a defined period has passed since completed treatment. The earliest point at 
which it could have agreed to offer life assurance was after two years had passed following 
completed treatment. 
So, under no circumstance could LV have actually offered Mrs F life assurance in 2018. That 
was not because it was discriminating against her for a reason related to her cancer. It was 
because that for any life assurance applicant with Mrs Fs type of breast cancer, LV cannot 
offer insurance until two years has passed since the applicant has undergone (available) 
treatment. 
Though I recognise Mr F has an explanation for what has gone on, it is nonetheless clear 
that a misrepresentation took place as relevant information was withheld. And once thats 
been established, relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it 
should be classed as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. The differing 
categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and return 
the premiums he or she paid from the outset.  
In the event of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, the insurer will void the policy. 
Where there is clear evidence of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation it can retain the 
premiums. The law on misrepresentation says how a qualifying misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew that it was untrue or misleading (or did not care 
whether or not it was untrue or misleading) and knew that the matter to which the 
misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer (or did not care whether or not it was 
relevant to the insurer).
I realise LV has chosen to retain the policy premiums and Mr F feels that is unfair. I cannot 
see clear evidence that Mrs F acted deliberately. It is also a particularly high bar for an 
insurer to determine that answers were given recklessly, and the ABI Code says how only 
the most serious instances of misrepresentation should fall within these categories, 
permitting voidance of a policy altogether. Nonetheless, I do believe that she must have 
known her answers were untrue and that her diagnosis was relevant to LV.  
In any event, LV had the option to retain the premiums in these circumstances. Mrs Fs 
policy terms expressly set out that if we cancel your policy you wont be entitled to any 
refund of premiums or payment from it. Therefore Im unable to agree with Mr F that the 
premiums ought to be returned to him.   
LV hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2018 as it would have if it had 
known about Mrs Fs correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the 
relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for it to void the policy now. That means I cant 
ask it to pay Mr Fs claim because LV would not have been in a position to insure Mrs F until 
such time as two years had passed after her treatment had ended. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Fs circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint or make any 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman