DRN-3244261
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001. Mr
and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs H bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2001. TMPP can be split
into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical
illness cover. Mr and Mrs H complained about the PPI, so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI
cover only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The PPI covered Mr H only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI policy was optional and gain their 
consent before adding the PPI to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H have told us they were made 
to feel they had to take the PPI for them to be approved for their mortgage. There isnt much 
paperwork available from the sale of the policy, but this isnt unusual considering the time 
that has passed, and that businesses arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. 
From what we know about how BoS sold this type of policy at the time I think its most likely 
BoS presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr and Mrs Hs consent before adding it to 
their mortgage. With this in mind I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
I think BoS recommended the PPI policy to Mr H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr H has told us he was entitled to a comprehensive benefits package through his 
employer when he took the PPI. He also had alternative cover and some savings. But the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to all of Mr Hs other cover and benefits. It would also 
have protected his savings so they could be used towards any other expenses Mr and Mrs H 
may have had.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and Mr and Mrs H seem to have had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think Mr H chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI
would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including what they have said about 
policies being mis-sold in general around the time Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage. But 
we consider complaints based on the individual merits and often find that PPI provided a 
useful benefit to policy holders. So, for the reasons explained above these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman