DRN-4307510
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her account without any reason to do so.
 
What happened
Lloyds blocked Ms Ks account on 7 March 2023 to carry out a review. It completed the 
review, and the following day wrote to Ms K giving her 65 calendar days notice that it would 
be closing her account. 
Ms K was unhappy so complained to Lloyds. Lloyds issued its final response explaining that 
closing an account isnt a decision it takes lightly but following recent activity it felt Ms Ks 
account no longer met its risk appetite. It explained the closure was in line with the terms 
and conditions. Finally, Lloyds said that it isnt required to give a reason for its decision  as 
this could make its system less secure - so it wouldnt be doing so. 
Ms K remained unhappy so referred her complaint to our service. She said Lloyds decision 
to close her account amounts to discrimination. She said the closure caused her distress 
and anxiety, which impacted her academic pursuits at the time, making it difficult to 
concentrate.  Ms K says the closure also damaged her credit rating, as well as causing a 
loss of trust in the banking system and damaging her reputation. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ks complaint recommending Lloyds pay her £100 
compensation. She explained that Lloyds hadnt provided a reason for the closure of Ms Ks 
account and therefore she wasnt able to conclude it had treated her fairly in doing so. 
However, she didnt make an award for any impact on Ms Ks credit score as she hadnt 
been able to show any evidence of this. 
Ms K believes she should receive a higher award of compensation and didnt agree with the 
investigators findings. She reemphasised her points about the decision to close the account 
being discriminatory. The investigator asked Ms K to elaborate on this point and she 
explained that the closing of the account without any court decision or reasonable 
justification is a clear example of discrimination. 
Because Ms K disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being blocked and closed. If Lloyds didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Lloyds isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it blocked or closed an account. 
This information is often commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong 
in not communicating its reasons for blocking or closing the account to Ms K at the time, or 
since.
However, Lloyds does need to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a
complaint. Lloyds hasnt done so on this occasion  only saying Ms K fell outside of its risk 
appetite. This means I cant fairly and reasonably conclude it has complied with the legal and 
regulatory obligations  or terms and conditions of the account - when closing Ms Ks 
account.
Lloyds hasnt explained why it wont provide further information to our service about the 
reasons for the closure on Ms Ks account. But this service has the power to request 
evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP), so Im not persuaded 
Lloyds has a reason to exclude it from complying with these rules regardless.
Taking this into account, I agree Lloyds should pay Ms K compensation for the
trouble and upset she faced in having her account closed. Lloyds has agreed to pay £100 as 
recommended by our investigator. Whilst I appreciate Ms K thinks she should receive more; 
I dont feel this would be warranted in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
I dont dispute having her account closed without an explanation would have been upsetting 
for Ms K and this award is in no way meant to belittle how it made her feel. However, Ms K 
did receive notice of the closure, so was able to use her account as normal during this time 
and arrange her account to be switched, preventing the need for her to move all her 
payments manually. And whilst I appreciate her comments about her credit rating, Im unable 
to recommend an award for this without any evidence her credit rating was impacted. That is 
to say, in this situation, I cant make an award for something that hypothetically may have 
happened. 
Ms K has said she feels Lloyds decision to close her account amounts to discrimination. Our 
service doesnt have the power to make a finding on discrimination under the Equality Act 
2010  thats something only the Courts can do. However, we do consider all relevant rules, 
regulations, and legislation when determining if a consumer has been treated fairly. So, 
thats what Ive done in this case.
I appreciate why Ms K might feel the way she does, for the reasons she has explained. 
However, despite our multiple requests, she hasnt referenced any specific interaction (such 
as a call or specific piece of communication) where she thinks Lloyds has discriminated 
against her. Nor has she mentioned a protected characteristic under which she thinks Lloyds 
has discriminated against her. Given this, I'm unable to consider this point any further or 
make an additional award. 
So, taking all the above into consideration, I therefore feel the £100 is fair and reasonable for 
the distress and frustration caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it to 
pay her £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman