DRN-3300890
The complaint
Mr W complains that Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion) disengaged their 
services to him as a client in April 2021. Hes unhappy they asked him to either appoint a 
new adviser or transfer his funds elsewhere. Hes also unhappy with the way they 
communicated this to him.
What happened
Mr W held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) plan administered by Parmenion. In April 
2021, Parmenion wrote to Mr W explaining that as the original financial adviser attached to 
the plan was no longer providing services to him, they were moving his holdings to an 
unallocated client status.
Parmenion explained that as theyre an adviser to client platform provider, it meant they 
would only be able to accept limited instructions from Mr W and they would be unable to 
accept instructions on the underlying investments.
Parmenion explained his options at that point were to send them an instruction to transfer 
the servicing of his portfolio to a newly appointed adviser (who was authorised by the FCA) 
or transfer out to another provider. The third option available to Mr W that wasnt mentioned 
in their letter to him, was withdrawing his remaining funds as a lump sum. 
Mr W contacted Parmenion to complain. After considering his concerns, Parmenion 
responded to Mr Ws complaint. They referred Mr W to their terms and conditions that 
explained in order to hold an account with them, the customer needed to have a regulated 
financial adviser attached to the investment. Thats because Parmenion is an investment 
platform provider and not an adviser. Parmenion did not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded as Parmenion only 
offers its platform services exclusively to advised customers, they were well within their 
rights to bring about the end of the relationship with Mr W when they learned he was no 
longer being provided with regulated financial advice. He concluded their terms and 
conditions, which Mr W was provided a copy of, were clear in this regard.
Mr W felt Parmenions letter to him in April 2021 was arrogant, offensive and threatening. 
Our investigator disagreed and considered the letter simply stated the SIPPs terms and 
conditions that needed to be met to continue holding assets on their platform. He 
acknowledged why Mr W may have been surprised to receive the letter from Parmenion but 
couldnt support his complaint.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings. He told our investigator, in summary, the 
following:
When he moved abroad (which was around the same time as he was advised to transfer 
funds to Parmenion), Parmenion should have cancelled his application.
He had a number of personal issues that he was dealing with at the time.
Parmenions terms and conditions are stacked in favor of them, rather than the investor.
He doesnt feel he needs an adviser.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Mr W had not presented any new 
arguments hed not already considered.
Mr W asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
Mr W has also brought a complaint to this service about the original advice he received to 
transfer into the Parmenion SIPP. As that case relates to a different business and financial 
adviser, that has been considered separately under another complaint and as such, I will not 
comment on that here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws financial adviser originally arranged the Parmenion SIPP in 2015 to receive two 
pension transfers. At that time, he was planning to retire and move abroad and take benefits 
shortly thereafter. As he was migrating overseas, the financial adviser explained the advice 
provided was transactional in nature. That meant he would only charge a one-off cost and 
not levy an ongoing fee. He also explained as Mr W would be residing overseas, an ongoing 
advice service would not be possible.
Parmenion is not authorised to provide regulated advice to clients. It relies on the third-party 
financial advisers to provide that service to customers who ultimately end up on its platform. 
It also relies on those advisers to ensure when recommending its services to their 
customers, the Parmenion platform is suitable for their circumstances. This is a common 
arrangement in the industry. Therefore, I dont believe Parmenion can be held accountable 
for Mr W ending up with the solution he did. I appreciate this may not be the decision Mr W 
was hoping for but, Ill explain more below.
Parmenion offered its products solely to advised clients. Its terms and conditions from March 
2015, stated: 
1.7 Appointing an Adviser
In order to hold an Account with Parmenion you must be serviced by an Adviser authorised 
by the FCA. Your Adviser must be registered with us in order for us to conduct business in 
relation to your Account.
You agree that your Adviser is duly authorised to provide us with instructions on your behalf 
as if they had come directly from you. This includes where necessary the authority to effect 
withdrawals and to add, amend or remove instructions to the Account as allowed under 
these Terms. You agree to accept full responsibility for all instructions placed and to release 
Parmenion from any liability for executing instructions provided by your Adviser (save for any 
loss or damage arising directly from the gross negligence, fraud or wilful default of 
Parmenion).  To see if Parmenion should have been aware Mr W was not going to receive an ongoing 
financial advice service, I have looked at the application form Mr Ws financial adviser 
submitted to them when he initially sent the business to them. It shows an ongoing adviser 
charge of 0%. Whilst the absence of a fee may have pointed towards Mr W not being 
provided with an ongoing service, that in itself is not necessarily conclusive. Thats because 
advisers can structure charges to clients in a number of different ways. The adviser has 
completed his details in the latter section of the application form but it doesnt ask them to 
confirm he is providing on ongoing service to the client. The adviser was only asked to 
confirm they held appropriate qualifications and the respective authorisation from the FCA to 
give pension transfer advice. Therefore, Parmenion would not have been aware that Mr W 
was not going to receive an ongoing service which they would have expected.
It took Parmenion five years to discover there was no adviser on the plan. Given they 
received no communication over the previous five years from the adviser, that may have 
alerted them sooner to the fact there was no adviser on the plan. That may have allowed the 
issue to have been identified sooner than it was. However, given Parmenion work on an 
adviser to customer model, I do appreciate it may not be that uncommon for Parmenion to 
go some duration without hearing from advisers. Besides, even if it had spotted there was no 
adviser earlier this wouldnt have changed the position Mr W ultimately found himself in. He 
would have just been confronted with the same options for his funds  just sooner.
When Parmenion became aware Mr W did not have a financial adviser allocated to the plan, 
as it doesnt have the relevant permissions to provide advice to individual customers, it 
therefore has a duty to remedy that. The options are those which have previously been 
described. Within its terms and conditions, Parmenion set out what would happen in such a 
scenario;
5.8 Unallocated Clients 
In the event of your Adviser no longer being authorised, we will contact the firm with which 
the Adviser was previously authorised to confirm who will be responsible for providing you 
with advice going forward. Where the firm no longer exists or we receive confirmation that 
they will no longer be taking on the responsibility of providing you with advice, your holdings 
will be moved to an Unallocated Client status. At this time we reserve the right to increase 
custody Charges to 0.5%. 
During a period of 90 days after which your Account is not serviced by an authorised Adviser 
we will continue to manage your investments under the mandate originally agreed. We will 
be unable to accept any instructions in relation to your investments during the period, other 
than to disinvest or Transfer. We will not be able to accept any new instructions or Transfers 
into your Account during the period, other than pre-existing regular Direct Debits. 
After 90 days has elapsed if we have not received any communication from you as to how to 
proceed, we will terminate the Discretionary Management Agreement and your investments 
will not be included in any further rebalances pending appointment of a new Adviser and 
receipt of a new investment mandate. 
When the SIPP was originally set up, Mr Ws financial adviser was fully aware of his 
circumstances and these were well documented. Mr W planned to move overseas. However, 
the product arranged required an ongoing financial adviser relationship and whilst Mr W 
confirmed that he had received, read and understood the terms and conditions when 
applying for the SIPP, the requirement for an ongoing adviser relationship was overlooked. 
He has explained he was unaware his original adviser had retired in September 2020 until 
he was advised by Parmenion. However, that is not surprising given Mr W never had an 
ongoing relationship with him.Parmenion explained that whist they give customers 90 days to arrange alternative 
arrangements before liquidating portfolios, they dont place any undue pressure on investors 
to make a decision. I consider that approach more than reasonable although I understand 
that Mr W has now liquidated the remaining funds in his portfolio given the challenges of 
finding an alternative adviser who is able to help overseas clients.
I am unable to support Mr Ws complaint as Parmenion have acted within the terms and 
conditions that were set out to him at the beginning of the relationship. I also dont think 
Parmenion has been unprofessional in the way it has communicated with Mr W.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman