DRN-4409063
The complaint
Mr A complains that Logbook Lending Limited (Logbook Lending) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A took out a loan with Logbook Lending in January 2023, secured against his car. The 
loan was for £500 and was repayable by way of 78 monthly payments of £77.78 with the 
total amount repayable under the agreement being £1,400.10. 
Mr A got into difficulty with meeting the repayments and defaulted on the loan in May 
2023. The outstanding sum has been passed to a collections business. 
Mr A says the loan was given irresponsibly as he was already struggling financially and 
was experiencing difficult personal circumstances. 
Logbook Lending didnt agree. It said it had reviewed his income and expenditure when 
he made the application and had also checked his credit file. And based on that the loan 
was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Logbook Lending 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan. 
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Logbook Lending will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before granting the loan I think Logbook Lending gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr A about his ability to repay. I say this having noted the credit checks 
it carried out. Logbook Lending also verified Mr As income by carrying out an open banking 
check. Mr A also said he was living at home. Mr A was also asked to complete an income 
and expenditure form over the phone. I have also noted that Mr A applied for a loan of 
£1,500 but was declined for that by Logbook Lending and instead he was offered the lower 
sum of £500. 
So, I think on balance that Logbook Lending carried out proportionate searches before 
approving the loan. But just because I think that, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair 
lending decision. Ive therefore thought carefully about what the evidence and information 
showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Logbook Lending gathered, as well as the 
information Mr A provided at the time he made his application. Ive seen that the checks on 
his credit history showed that he was in a payment arrangement for a loan with a low 
repayment. He also had one active county court judgment on his file. Logbook Lending said 
that after allowing for his monthly committed expenditure and existing debt commitments  
including repaying his outstanding court judgment - Mr A ought to have been left with around 
£630 disposable income each month. Whilst its clear that Mr A had had debt issues in the 
past I think the checks and steps taken to verify his income established his ability to repay 
the new borrowing. 
Ive also looked at Mr As overall level of household income, his daily outgoings and the 
committed expenditure as shown on Mr As open banking report. Ive noted that the loan 
amount and size of the repayments were set so as to be manageable. Ive also kept in mind 
what Mr A has said about his other committed costs. Having done so, I think Mr As level of 
income and committed expenditure was consistent with the information Logbook Lending 
obtained from the checks it had carried out. I therefore agree that the loan was likely to have 
been affordable as Mr A had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly payments. 
For these reasons, I dont think Logbook Lending acted unfairly when approving the loan.
Mr A has said that Logbook Lending ought to have been aware of issues he was having with 
gambling. He has also referred to other monthly costs that he says werent included in the 
open banking checks. But based on the evidence information it obtained in its checks and 
the information provided by Mr A as part of the application process, I think Logbook Lending 
was entitled to rely on the information it obtained as painting a broadly representative picture 
of Mr As financial situation at the time. In any event, these were not items that Mr A had 
given details about when completing his income and expenditure form. So I dont think I can 
reasonably have expected Logbook Lending to have carried out further checks. The amount 
Logbook Lending ultimately agreed reflected its attempting to take a proportionate and 
reasonable approach in light of Mr As credit history so as not burden him going forwards 
with a level of additional debt that had the potential to turn out to be unsustainable. 
Ive also considered whether theres anything else Logbook Lending could have done better 
to help Mr A. Mr A said that it refused to grant him a 30 day breathing-space hed been 
seeking due to his ill-health. But that request was made after the account had defaulted, so 
by that point it was appropriate that Logbook Lending suggested he contact the third party 
recovery business. It also doesnt look like this was in the context of Mr A receiving formal 
advice from a debt adviser. Ive also seen that Logbook Lending made a number of attempts 
to contact Mr A after he got into difficulty with meeting the repayments but it seems that hed 
changed his email address. 
I understand that Mr As personal circumstances have not been good and Im sorry to hear 
of that. I would remind Logbook Lending of its responsibility to ensure that Mr A is treated 
with all possible understanding and forbearance. So it should take the necessary steps to 
see that the third party now dealing with the recovery of the outstanding debt similarly 
engages with Mr A with a view to reaching an affordable repayment arrangement, if it hasnt 
done so already.
But, having taken everything into account, I dont consider Ive seen enough evidence or 
information to show that Logbook Lending lent to Mr A irresponsibly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman