DRN-2834017
The complaint
Mr J complains Acasta European Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused his motor 
warranty claim.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr J bought a new car. He took out an Acasta motor warranty. In March 2020 
there was an unusual sound coming from the engine. One of Acastas approved repairers 
dismantled the engine. After receiving its report Acasta refused to cover both the repair and 
diagnostic costs  more than £5,000. It said the damage was caused by a lack of oil. It 
explained Mr Js policy didnt cover that cause of damage  or damage caused by 
inadequate servicing. 
Acasta responded to a complaint from Mr J. It said it had been advised by the repairing 
garage that the damage had been caused by a lack of oil. It still refused to pay the claim. It 
said its adviser had told Mr J that the diagnostics cost would only be covered if the claim was 
successful. So it didnt agree to pay for that either.
 
Mr Js was still unhappy so came to this service. Hes since paid for the repairs himself. He 
wants Acasta to reimburse him the repair and diagnostic costs. Hes also unhappy with how 
long Acasta took to handle his claim. 
Our investigator didnt agree that Acasta had unfairly refused the claim or the diagnostic 
costs. So she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr J didnt accept that, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy terms set out that repairs required because of unexpected mechanical or 
electrical breakdown are covered. But the terms also set out circumstances that arent 
covered. Acastas referred to three of these when refusing the claim. These are faults 
caused by inadequate servicing, lack of routine or regular maintenance and damage caused 
by a lack of  lubrication or servicing. 
Having considered everything Im persuaded Acasta fairly refused the claim. The repairing 
garage was first to inspect the car after Mr J reported unusual engine sounds. It found the 
engine dip stick to be dry. Nearly five litres were needed to get the oil to the recommended 
level. The repairers report to Acasta suggests the cause of damage as possibly a lack of 
maintenance. It said the engine had severe oil starvation.
A second engineer inspected the damaged engine. He found big end damage caused by a 
lack of lubrication. He felt the damage indicated the engine had been run with an extremely 
low oil level causing big end bearings to pick up and score.
Mr J hasnt provided anything from a qualified expert that gives a different cause of damage. 
So based on what Ive seen it does seem the most likely cause was a lack of engine 
lubrication. As set out above the policy doesnt cover damage with that cause.
According to Mr J he topped up the oil before long journeys and when the oil warning light 
indiacted it was required. That may be correct, but it still seems the damage was most likely 
caused by a lack of lubrication  oil. So I cant say Acasta unfairly refused the claim.    
Mr J says the second engineer didnt inspect the actual vehicle  only the damaged engine. 
He feels the engineer could have been shown any engine - it may not have been his one. I 
accept thats possible, but I dont think its most likely what happened. Without anything to 
support what Mr J says, I think the engineer was probably shown, and inspected, the correct 
engine. 
Months before Mr J reported the engine noise the same repairer had worked on the cars 
exhaust. He says that work was covered by his warranty. I havent been provided with 
anything that persuades me poor workmanship at that time resulted in the later engine 
damage. So I cant say Acasta was responsible for the lack of oil or the resulting damage.   
Mr Js policy says diagnostic costs are only covered when theres a valid claim. He feels 
Acasta should cover them as it said it would when he made the claim. Its call notes dont 
support Mr Js account. Instead they say he was told it would consider them if there was a 
valid claim. Overall Im not persuaded he was told these costs would be covered regardless 
of the claim outcome.  
There was some delay to Acasta deciding the outcome of the claim. That seems to have 
been largely caused by the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions in place at the time. I havent 
seen anything that makes me think Acasta was responsible for significant unnecessary 
delay. 
I accept this has been a frustrating experience for Mr J. But having considered everything 
Im not going to require Acasta to cover the repair or diagnostic costs or pay him any 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Acasta European Insurance Company Limited 
do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman