DRN-3276607
Complaint
Mr J says that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly recorded a default on his credit file 
and what it did to put things right didnt go far enough.
Background
Santander placed a default on Mr Js credit file as a result of an unpaid outstanding balance 
on his current account in August 2016. In 2019 as part of its review into past practices, 
Santander contacted Mr J and told him that it was going to remove the default it placed on 
his credit file, as it shouldnt have been applied in the first place because the outstanding 
balance was made up solely of interest, fees and charges. 
Mr J didnt think this went far enough and formally complained. Santander agreed to pay    
Mr J some compensation, which it then agreed to increase as a result of further 
correspondence from Mr J. But Mr J remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Js complaint and she thought that what Santander had 
done to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. Mr J 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My complaints
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. In other words, wed expect the business concerned to 
unwind any wrongdoing. 
In this case, the default has long since been removed from Mr Js credit file. And the total 
amount Mr J has received in refunds, from both the merchant he was initially in dispute in 
and Santander, more than covers the charges applied to his account. So it seems to me that 
Santander has taken reasonable steps to unwind the wrongdoing that took place here. And it 
has followed the broad principles Id expect a firm to when deciding how to put things right, 
in such circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have broad principles that wed expect a firm to apply when working out the amount of 
compensation due to a customer, we can and will tell it to do something different and/or 
something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to 
do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr J believes that Santander should do more here. As I understand it, he doesnt think 
whats been done goes far enough here as he says he told Santander his account shouldnt  
be defaulted and the compensation paid doesnt reflect the impact the default on his credit 
file had on him. He believes that an amount of £2,250.00 would more adequately 
compensate him.
Ive thought about Mr Js arguments. It isnt in dispute that Mr J got in contact with Santander 
once charges started being applied to his account. I accept that Santanders notes from the 
time may not cover all of Mr Js calls and everything that was said. But crucially the notes 
from the January 2016 call Mr J had with Santander indicate not did it offer to freeze some of 
the charges due to be added, but Mr J also indicated it had offered to refund some charges, 
as gesture of goodwill, in a previous call. However, the notes from this call go on to say that 
Mr J didnt want to do this and wanted to pursue the amount from the company responsible 
for taking the payment. The notes also say that Mr J was warned his choices here could lead 
to increased charges.
I can also see that Santander wrote to Mr J a number of times to let him know that there was 
an outstanding balance on the account that needed to be cleared. And as that balance 
wasnt cleared Mr Js account was passed to collections. I accept that it took Mr J a number 
of months to be able to reclaim the amount from the retailer and this was, at least in part, 
responsible for the balance remaining unpaid. But Santander did clearly offer to at least limit 
the amount owing (and may well have even offered to clear the balance) and it was Mr Js 
choice to instead pursue matters with the retailer.
So Im satisfied that Santander did listen to Mr J, tried to get an understanding of the 
circumstances and most importantly offered him an appropriate way to move forward. And 
as Mr J refused this help and instead chose and alternative course of action, despite 
appearing to be informed of the risks, I think its unreasonable to expect Santander to have 
ignored the outstanding balance indefinitely. And I dont find that it was unreasonable for 
Santander to pass Mr Js account to collections and take steps to recover the balance when 
it did.  
Ive thought about what Mr J has said about the impact of the adverse information recorded 
on his credit file. And I can ask a business to compensate for any additional (or 
consequential) losses that a consumer mightve suffered, or if theyve been inconvenienced. 
But only usually where theres a clear and direct link between what the business did wrong 
and any additional losses suffered and/or what the business has done to put things right 
doesnt reflect how much the consumer has been inconvenienced.
Weve asked Mr J to provide us with direct evidence of the impact that the adverse 
information recorded on his credit file had on him. But despite having been given ample 
opportunity to do so, Mr J hasnt provided us with anything to support him having lost out by 
the amount hes now seeking. So while I accept that Mr Js ability to obtain credit elsewhere 
will have been impacted by the adverse information recorded, I dont have enough here to 
say that the amount of compensation paid already doesnt adequately cover this. I say that 
while especially mindful that his inability to pay the outstanding balance on this account is 
suggestive of him perhaps having difficulty accessing credit elsewhere already.
Finally, I understand that Mr J was and is unhappy that his £250 compensation was paid into 
an account he was a trustee of, rather than his own account. Santander has already paid an 
additional £50 in compensation for this. As I understand it, the account the £250 was paid 
into was the only Santander one Mr J was a party on. And while Mr J has speculated on 
possible reasons why he might not have been able to access these funds, Im not aware that he actually wasnt able to do so. As this is the case, Im satisfied that the additional £50 
Santander paid Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.   
Overall and bearing in mind everything Ive already said, Im satisfied that what Santander 
has already done to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, Im not upholding 
Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman