DRN-3677653
The complaint
D complains that IG Markets Limited didnt allow it to take the share alternative following an 
enhanced scrip dividend announcement. D wants compensation for the loss its made in not 
being able to take the shares.
D is a limited company and its director, who I will refer to as Mr P, brings the complaint on its 
behalf.
What happened
D has an execution only dealing account with IG Markets and has a holding of ordinary 
shares in a company which I will refer to as H. On 11 November 2020, H announced an 
enhanced scrip dividend. Mr P contacted IG Markets because he wanted to elect to take the 
scrip alternative on Ds behalf.
IG Markets told him it didnt offer scrip dividends and that D would receive the cash dividend. 
It said it had acted in line with its terms and conditions which say, Generally you will receive 
the cash default option. And that Mr P was made aware of this when he called to try to give 
alternative instructions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
it was up to IG Markets to decide whether to take the cash or share dividend and that D 
should have been aware of that, from the terms and conditions, when it opened its account.
D didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
H announced an enhanced scrip dividend. IG Markets terms and conditions say:
We are not obliged to but we may offer you any dividend reinvestment plans 
available or any scrip option or stock dividend offered for Instruments that we hold on 
your behalf. However, any such decision will not take account of your personal tax 
position. Generally you will receive the cash default option. (11 (5))
I dont find there was any obligation under the agreed terms for IG Markets to tell D 
about the enhanced scrip dividend, or to seek its instructions. It was for IG Markets to 
decide whether to take the dividend in cash or scrip. And the terms say it will 
generally take the cash option, which is what IG Markets did in this case.
But, whilst I find IG Markets acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions, I need 
to think about whether IG Markets treated D fairly in the circumstances here. 
Particularly, taking into account FCA rules which say a business shouldnt seek to 
exclude or restrict its regulatory obligations to comply with its clients best interests.
The scrip alternative announced by H was a particularly attractive option, being worth 
ten times more than the cash dividend. And, whilst the terms and conditions allow IG 
Markets to act in its discretion, I think D would reasonably expect it to also act in Ds 
best interests. It was also clear from Mr Ps contact with IG Markets on or around 27 
November 2020 that D wanted to take the scrip alternative because it was worth so 
much more.
Considering all the circumstances here, I think IG Markets should compensate D for 
the loss it made in not taking the scrip alternative, reflecting its duty to act in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
And I explained how I thought D should be compensated. I said:
I would expect IG Markets to put D in the position it would have been in if it had taken 
the scrip dividend on its behalf. It should credit Ds account with the number of H 
shares it would have received. D wouldnt have received the cash dividend. IG 
Markets can arrange to claim this back from D should it choose to do so.
Responses to my provisional decision
D responded to say that it had sold its entire holding of H shares on 3 August 2021, 
receiving 37.15p per share. It would like compensation in cash, using the sale price it would 
have received, plus interest.
IG Markets said it couldnt facilitate scrip dividends. It said it was unreasonable to award 
compensation for a service it cant offer, and doesnt claim to offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IG Markets says it cant facilitate scrip dividends and it doesnt claim to. As noted in my 
provisional decision, its terms and conditions say it may offer a scrip option. I dont find 
IG Markets made it clear to D when it entered into the agreement that IG Markets would not 
be able to take a scrip option on its behalf.
In the circumstances, IG Markets should compensate D for the loss it made in not taking the 
scrip alternative, reflecting its duty to act in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said IG Markets should credit Ds account with the number of H 
shares it would have received. But D provided evidence to show it sold its holding of H 
shares on 3 August 2021. Had it received the enhanced scrip dividend, I think its more likely 
than not that it would have also sold these shares on 3 August 2021. I think its fair that IG 
Markets pays D what it would have received if it had received the enhanced scrip dividend 
and sold those shares on 3 August 2021 at 37.15p each.
IG Markets should pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
3 August to the date it makes the payment because D has been without that money 
for this period.
IG Markets can deduct the cash dividend D received from the amount it pays D.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. IG Markets Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman