DRN-3180817
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) gave unsuitable advice when an adviser 
recommended they should invest in a Personal Investment Plan (PIP) using a flexible loan 
trust. The investment was held in trust M of which Mrs E was the settlor and both Mr and 
Mrs E were trustees. 
What happened
BoS provided advice in January 2008. Based on the recommendation, Mr and Mrs E 
invested a sum of around £415,000 in a PIP which was to be held in a flexible loan trust 
(trust M). Mr and Mrs E declined the advisors recommendation to make monthly 
contributions of £700 into a PIP. 
In July 2008, Mr and Mrs E filled in a form to close the plan because of performance. Mr 
and Mrs Es representative complained to BoS on their behalf in March 2021. The 
representative said Mr E was retired but advised to invest all his life savings. The 
representative also said Mr Es background, occupation and lack of financial experience was 
an issue given where the money was invested.  
Halifax responded to the complaint in April 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint and felt 
the advisors recommendation was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and their representative contacted our service to ask us to 
investigate. The Investigator looked into the complaint and explained why they felt the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
The representative responded to the view to explain Mr and Mrs E didnt agree. They said 
diversification was a problem because a large amount of money was invested in just one 
product. Also, Mr and Mrs E clearly didnt have the composure for this type of investment as 
they surrendered it only a few months later. Moreover, the representative added Mr and Mrs 
E would naturally accept the recommendation made by the advisor. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the Investigator explained, a business must obtain necessary information about the 
consumer when making a recommendation. This includes their relevant knowledge and 
experience in investing, as well as their financial situation, attitude to risk, capacity for loss 
and investment objectives. Any recommendation must then be suitable based on the 
information obtained. 
Ive reviewed the information obtained by the advisor from Mr and Mrs E at the point of sale. 
This includes the fact find and financial report. The advisor recorded they were both around 
60 years of age, retired and had a joint pension income of £3,250 per month. They had 
necessary expenditure of £1,900 with a disposable income of around £1,250 per month. 
Also, they had no outstanding liabilities and no dependents. The advisor valued their joint 
estate at over £1,100,000.  This included their main residence, a property held in trust and 
assets of £637,796.24 (this was made up of £26,956 in non deposit based investments and 
the rest in deposit based investments). So, the advisor did take steps to understand their 
financial situation. 
The advisor also recorded their objectives in the financial report. This included estate 
planning - they wanted to pass on as much as their wealth as possible by reducing the effect 
of inheritance tax (IHT). He calculated the joint estate IHT as being £206,368 on the rules at 
the time. However, Mr and Mrs E also wanted to make sure they retained access to capital, 
as well as flexibility regarding who should benefit in case of a change in family 
circumstances. 
Moreover, I can see they both filled in a questionnaire aimed at understanding their personal 
risk profile. Ive reviewed this and the answers. For example, they tended to agree with small 
certain gains and carefully considered both the possible gains and losses. In the financial 
report he also noted that Mr and Mrs E both had an equity based investment which they had 
held for more than twelve months. He also had a record of the other types of investments 
they held. Therefore, he categorised both as having a cautious/medium attitude to risk. 
In the report he explained this meant they were willing to accept some risk for investment 
growth. Based on the answers provided in the questionnaire, what the advisor understood 
about Mr and Mrs Es investment experience and the explanation provided, Ive no concerns 
with the conclusion the advisor reached here.  
Overall, Im content the advisor obtained sufficient information about their financial 
circumstances, investment objectives as well as the relevant knowledge and experience.
 
Flexible Loan Trust 
The advisor recommended establishing a flexible loan trust and investing the loaned capital 
in a PIP. He advised the PIP should be written on the life of Mrs E (as the basic rate 
taxpayer) and on a single life basis. He set out the reasons for this in the financial report 
which also said Mr and Mrs E should ensure that they understood how the trust worked 
before proceeding. Ive also reviewed the information provided by BoS about flexible loan 
trusts. 
From these documents, I can see one of the benefits of this type of trust is that it allowed 
continued access to capital on a regular or ad-hoc basis. This is because the trust is 
established by the settlor loaning capital to the trustees to invest and that loan is repayable 
on demand. Additionally, any growth on the investment would be held outside of the estate 
for the benefit of the trust beneficiaries and not subject to IHT. Therefore, the documents 
explained it would effectively freeze the inheritance tax liability on the investment at the 
current value. This meant the flexible loan trust met with Mr and Mrs Es objective to reduce 
IHT liability of the estate, whilst also allowing them to retain access to capital.  
Moreover, the information explained the loan provided flexibility and an element of continued 
control over the ultimate distribution of growth and capital. This is because it was a type of 
discretionary trust. The report explained this is something Mr and Mrs E wanted in case the 
circumstances of their family changed.  
Not only this, but the advisor also considered other options. Firstly, the report sets out 
established techniques of reducing IHT liability. For example, lifetime gift exemptions. Also, it confirmed Mr and Mrs E did not want a life assurance policy to meet potential IHT liability 
because it would cost too much. 
Having considered the recommendation to place the investment into a flexible loan trust, Im 
satisfied it was suitable. It met with Mr and Mrs Es objectives by reducing IHT liability on the 
investment growth, allowed them access to capital and gave them flexibility in respect of 
distribution. 
Cautious Managed Fund
The advisor recommended Mr and Mrs E invest in the cautious managed fund and set out 
the reasons in his financial report. Ive also considered the more recent fund information 
provided by BoS. I can see the fund aimed to provide longer term growth and the advisor 
understood Mr and Mrs E wanted to save for five years. 
Also, in the report the advisor set out the asset mix of the fund. It contained a mix of fixed 
interest investments (corporate bond and gilt investments) balanced with actively managed 
share investments. He explained the fund manager would actively manage the asset mix 
between corporate bonds and shares to reflect a cautious/medium risk profile. The fund 
aimed to maintain 51% in UK shares to attain the risk profile. Having reviewed the 
information about the fund and the explanation about the asset mix, Im content it met Mr 
and Mrs Es objectives to provide potential growth over a longer period. At the same time, 
Im satisfied the explained spread of assets was appropriate and demonstrates the fund was 
suitable for their attitude to risk.   
I appreciate the representative was concerned the advisor recommended Mr and Mrs E 
invested £429,000 (later reduced to £415,000). I do appreciate this is a significant sum. 
However, the advisor valued their joint estate at over £1,100,000, so it represented less than 
half of this value. The fund ultimately met with their risk profile and suited the objectives as 
outlined above. 
Moreover, in the financial report the advisor said they were experienced investors and had 
experience of the ups and downs of the stock market. Ive reviewed the information in the 
report and fact find. I can see the advisor also confirmed the capital was already held within 
risk-based assets rather than in cash. This is important because it meant Mr and Mrs E did 
have some experience. The advisor also confirmed Mr and Mrs E felt they wouldnt be 
exposed to an increased risk. Therefore, the recommendation meant that any growth from 
the investment would fall outside of the estate where it otherwise wouldnt have. 
Also, they had sufficient disposable income and the amount they invested left them with over 
£195,000 in deposit based accounts. These circumstances seem to reflect their ability to 
withstand the risk. So, Im not persuaded the amount of money invested in this fund exposed 
them to an inappropriate risk based on their attitude and experience or meant it was an 
unsuitable recommendation.
Overall, Im satisfied the recommendation made by the advisor to establish a flexible loan 
trust and invest loaned capital into a PIP was suitable. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E as 
trustees of the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman