DRN-1770670
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled their 
travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W purchased a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV. 
In 2019 when travelling home from abroad, Mr and Mrs W experienced a flight delay of 16 
hours and 25 minutes. They made a departure delay claim on their travel insurance policy 
which URV accepted, and they received £20 in settlement of it.
Unhappy with the amount theyd received, Mr and Mrs W complained to URV. They said 
URVs insurance product information document (IPID) stated that £150 would be paid for 
delays of up to 12 hours or more. They also said the policy had been misold because of that, 
and that they wanted £300 in settlement of their claim (so, £150 each).
In response to that complaint, URV said the IPID was a summary document and did not 
contain the full terms and conditions of the policy. It said the full terms and conditions 
showed that £10 was paid for delayed departures in excess of 12 hours, and £10 thereafter 
for each complete period of 12 hours up to a maximum of £150. URV said Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim had been settled correctly in line with the terms of the policy, but as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to reimburse the additional transport costs theyd incurred. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but she didnt think URV had acted fairly. In 
summary she said the IPID hadnt made it clear that the departure delay benefit was an up 
to amount. So to put things right she recommended URV pay £150 to Mr and Mrs W (a total 
of £300) plus 8% interest.
Mrs and Mrs W agreed with those recommendations. But URV didnt and in summary said 
that the IPID didnt contain the full policy terms, the benefit was designed to help with 
drinks/snacks, and there wasnt a policy on the market paying anything like £150 for such a 
short delay. 
URV also said that Mr and Mrs W hadnt incurred costs to such a sum, it didnt accept theyd 
based their purchase of the policy on the belief that it had such a disproportionate benefit, 
and the logic in the investigators argument suggested she would have asked URV pay £10 
million (as per the IPID summary for medical expenses) if Mr and Mrs W had submitted a 
medical expenses claim.
So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has set out its position in detail and I thank it for taking the time to do so. Within this 
decision I will only be commenting on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint though. That means I wont address every point or argument thats been raised, 
and I trust that wont be taken as a matter of discourtesy.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV should handle claims both promptly 
and fairly. And that they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its not disputed that the IPID doesnt contain the full terms and conditions of the policy. I can 
see that it reads, The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of 
the contract which can be found in your policy documentation... 
Similarly, its not disputed that the policy doesnt provide a fixed amount of £150 for delays of 
over 12 hours. The full terms and conditions in relation to the departure delay benefit set out 
what URV will pay and say, If your departure is delayed by 12 hours or more [] £10 per 
12hrs up to a maximum of £150. 
So the matter I need to decide in this complaint is whether URV should pay the £150 on a 
fair and reasonable basis.
Looking at the IPID there is no reference to the benefit being an up to amount. Instead, the 
IPID reads, The policy covers the followingIf your departure is delayed by 12 hours or 
more, £150. Given that this benefit is in fact hourly and capped at a maximum, I think that 
omission is relatively significant.
Mr and Mrs W did not incur costs of £150 because of their flight delay, and given the length 
of their delay I accept that, purely on a terms and conditions basis, they arent eligible for the 
£150. But in view of the hourly nature of this benefit and the omission of up to within the 
IPID, I think its fair to say that someone could, like Mr and Mrs W did here, reasonably 
assume that the benefit was a fixed amount payable in the event of a delay. And any 
ambiguity within the IPID should be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ws favour.  
URV has said the departure delay benefit is designed to help with drinks and snacks. But 
thats not made clear even within the wider policy terms, which say that the benefit is 
designed to help with a much wider set of circumstances, to help contribute towards 
additional accommodation, car parking charges, food, drinks or telephone calls.
I know that URV is concerned the uphold arguments made in this complaint mean it could 
have been asked to pay £10 million as per the IPID had Mr and Mrs W made a medical 
expenses claim. But theres a notable difference between these benefits, with the departure 
delay being an hourly benefit and the medical expenses one being based on actual costs 
incurred. So Im not persuaded that the findings of this complaint would, or could, be 
transferred so literally to another section of the IPID. 
I am also aware that URV has said there isnt a policy on the market that would provide the 
level of cover being considered in this complaint. I appreciate URVs position in relation to 
what the wider market may, or may not, provide. And in deciding this complaint I have 
considered the list it provided showing what other insurers provide for this type of benefit. 
But the matter I have been asked to decide here, is solely in relation to the specific 
circumstances of this case. 
Having taking account of the fair and reasonable remit of this service, and for the reasons 
given above, I am of the opinion that URV should pay the £150. 
Putting things rightUnion Reiseversicherung AG need to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs W £150 each (a 
total of £300) less any monies it has already paid under the departure delay claim. It should 
also pay 8% simple interest from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement. 
If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman