DRN-4188521
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, didnt apply a guaranteed 
exchange rate to her currency exchange instruction.
What happened
Mrs H wanted to take advantage of a favourable exchange rate between Canadian Dollars 
(CAD) and UK Pounds (GBP) and so instructed Wise to exchange 300,000 CAD to GBP. 
Mrs H had used Wise several times previously and had always received a guaranteed 
exchange rate, meaning that the exchange rate shed benefit from wouldnt change in the 
time it took her to transfer the relevant money to her Wise account to be exchanged. 
However, on this occasion, Mrs H discovered that Wise werent providing a guaranteed 
exchange rate, and this meant that when she did transfer the relevant money into her Wise 
account, the exchange rate she was offered was less favourable than the rate that she 
believed would be guaranteed when she instructed the exchange. Mrs H wasnt happy about 
this, especially as shed been told by Wise when she instructed the exchange that the rate 
would be guaranteed. So, she raised a complaint.
Wise responded to Mrs H and explained that because of market volatility theyd suspended 
the guaranteed exchange rate at the time shed instructed the transfer, and that this had 
been stated on their online platform which Mrs H had used to instruct the transfer. 
However, Wise did acknowledge that their notice to that effect hadnt been as clear as it 
should reasonably have been, and so they offered to pay 110 CAD to Mrs H to cover the 
fees shed incurred transferring her money to Wise as well as a further £100 credit to her 
Wise account. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Wises response and felt that they should cover 
the losses shed incurred on the 300,000 CAD by keeping it her Wise account. So, she 
referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Wise should be 
instructed to cover Mrs Hs losses as she would like because they felt Mrs H could and 
reasonably should have taken alternative action to mitigate against those losses. 
But our investigator didnt feel the 110 CAD Wise credit offered by Wise was sufficient 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs H had incurred, and so recommended that Wise 
should pay £200 compensation directly to Mrs H instead. Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H set up the transfer from CAD to GBP with Wise on 28 September 2022, and shes 
explained to this service that she feels that she moved her money to Wise under the false 
promise that the transfer rate shown by Wise on 28 September 2022 would be guaranteed 
by them for five days.
Wise have accepted that the information they provided to Mrs H when she set up the 
transfer, about whether the exchange rate would be guaranteed of not, wasnt as clear as it 
should been. This is because, while Wise did have a notice on their website about the 
suspension of the exchange rate guarantee at that time, it was still stated to Mrs H when she 
set up the transfer that the rate shown at that time would be guaranteed. Although, notably, it 
was also explained at a later part of the transfer process that the rate was not guaranteed.
With Mrs Hs dissatisfaction in mind, Ive considered whether Wise should fairly be asked to 
honour the transfer rate that Mrs H believed she would receive when she set up the transfer 
on 28 September 2022. But, having considered all the factors and circumstances here, I 
dont think it would be fair to instruct Wise to do so.
There are several reasons for this. These include that before Mrs H set up the transfer on 28 
September 2022, she spoke with Wise the day before. Ive listened to a recording of this call, 
and I note that Mrs H and Wise discuss the fact that the CAD/GBP exchange rate was 
volatile at that time, with Mrs H explaining that the rate has moved against her since the day 
before the call and that shes hoping the rate will move in her favour soon. 
In response, Wise explained to Mrs H that she her best option to secure a favourable 
exchange rate would be to move money into her Wise CAD account, from where she could 
instruct an exchange to GBP the moment the rate was in her favour. But Mrs H explained 
that she didnt want to hold money in her Wise CAD account because she would lose out on 
the interest the money was earning where it presently was.
I feel that it stands it to reason that currency exchange firms, such as Wise, might not offer 
guaranteed exchange rates for non-immediate transfers during times of exchange rate 
volatility. And I feel this was alluded to and discussed in the conversation referred to above, 
given that Wise were advising Mrs H to hold money in her Wise CAD account to be able to 
take advantage of any favourable exchange rates that might develop.
Additionally, while the information about the suspension of the guaranteed exchange rate 
wasnt as clear as it should have been for Mrs H when she set up the transfer, that 
information was there  both as a general notice, and within the transfer set-up flow, 
although admittedly towards the end and after the notice that the rate would be guaranteed. 
Mrs H has explained that she didnt see either notice that the exchange rate would be 
guaranteed. But again, that information was there. And Im not convinced that it is 
reasonable to consider Wise fully accountable for Mrs H not seeing that information.
Finally, once Mrs H did become aware that the exchange rate wouldnt be guaranteed, Wise 
offered to transfer Mrs Hs money back to the originating account. But Mrs H didnt want to 
take this option and chose to leave the money in her Wise CAD account. And while I 
appreciate that Mrs H feels that shes incurred further losses as a result of her money 
remaining in her Wise CAD account, I feel that these losses have arisen as a result of her 
decision to keep the money in her Wise CAD account, and so this isnt something Id 
consider holding Wise accountable for. 
However, while I wont upholding this complaint in the manner that Mrs H would like here, I 
do feel that Wise could have presented clearer information to Mrs H about the suspension of 
the guaranteed exchange rate, which would have reduced the risk of Mrs H not seeing that 
information. And while I dont think that Wise should bear full responsibility for Mrs H not 
being aware of the suspension of the guaranteed exchange rate, as explained above, I do 
feel that this provision of unclear and contradictory information about the rate has caused Mrs H a degree of trouble and upset that she should fairly be compensated for.
To clarify, Im not instructing compensation to Mrs H for Wise proving incorrect information 
about the rate to her. And I feel that Mrs H should reasonably have been aware that the rate 
might not have been guaranteed  based on a general understanding of currency exchange 
as well as the conversation she had with Wise on 27 September 2022 and the information 
about the suspension that was on Wises website. But I do feel that the contradictory 
information Mrs H saw about the rate being guaranteed has caused her trouble and upset, 
which led to her calling Wise on 29 September 2022, and for which she should fairly be 
compensated.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But upon consideration, I feel that the £200 
recommended by our investigator is a fair amount here. This is based on several factors, 
including that I feel Mrs H should have understood that the rate might not be guaranteed 
before transferring her money to Wise, as discussed, as well that Wise offered what I feel 
was a reasonable solution to the issue by offering to transfer Mrs Hs money back to the 
originating account, which would have minimised the financial impact to Mrs H. And Ive also 
considered the general framework this service uses when assessing compensation amounts 
for upset and inconvenience, details of which are on this services website.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Hs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct Wise to make a payment of £200 to her. I realise this might not be the 
outcome Mrs H was wanting. But I hope shell understand, given everything Ive described 
above and the impartial nature of this service, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Wise must make a payment of £200 to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited, trading as 
Wise, as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman