DRN-4369770
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money he lost as the 
result of a scam.
What happened
In 2021, Mr E became interested in cryptocurrency trading. He joined a group on a 
messaging app and was approached by an individual Ill refer to as D. D recommended that 
Mr E open a cryptocurrency wallet through a specific cryptocurrency exchange and sent    
Mr E a link to do so. Mr E used the link and opened a crypto wallet in his name.
Mr E says he was aware of scams and sent screen shots to a friend who regularly invested 
in cryptocurrency. They told Mr E the crypto exchange was a genuine company and that it 
was safe, as long as Mr E opened the account himself. Mr Es friend also recommended that 
he initially only send small payments to his crypto wallet.
Mr E sent his first two payments to his crypto wallet on 28 May 2021 for £50 and £500.
Between May 2021 and November 2022, Mr E sent over 50 payments totalling more than 
£84,000. During this time, Mr E bought and sold cryptocurrency on the exchange, based on 
guidance given by D. Mr E says he made losses on some of his trades and that D was 
constantly telling him to invest more money. Mr E was able to successfully make withdrawals 
from his crypto wallet, which were paid into his Barclays account.
In November 2022, Mr E tried to access his crypto wallet and found that it was restricted. He 
contacted the crypto exchange and was told that the full balance of his crypto wallet had 
been withdrawn.
Mr E says that shortly after opening his crypto wallet, malware was detected on the device 
he used to open the account, and that malware was removed. D later recommended that   
Mr E download an extension for his search engine, which he did. D said this extension would 
allow him to give Mr E real time suggestions on when to buy and sell cryptocurrency to make 
the most profit. Mr E believes that the link D initially sent him to open his crypto wallet and 
the later extension he downloaded, allowed D access to his crypto wallet and that it was D 
who withdrew his funds.
Mr E raised a fraud claim with Barclays, asking them to refund him.
Initially Barclays incorrectly opened a recurring payment cancellation request, rather than a 
fraud claim. Barclays apologised for not following the right process and paid Mr E £100 
compensation. Having raised a fraud claim and investigated his case, Barclays declined to 
refund Mr E for his loss. Barclays explained that Mr Es payments werent covered by the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
because the payments went to an account in Mr Es own name. They also told Mr E to raise 
a complaint with the cryptocurrency exchange, saying the loss occurred from the crypto 
wallet he held with them, not from his Barclays account. So, he should seek to recover his 
funds from the crypto exchange.
Mr E wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt recommend that Barclays refund him. 
Ultimately the investigator agreed that Mr Es loss occurred at the cryptocurrency exchange. 
They said that even if Barclays had intervened when Mr E made the payments, it was 
unlikely that the scam wouldve been discovered or that the loss wouldve been prevented.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
His loss didnt occur at the cryptocurrency exchange and Barclays should be liable 
for his loss.
Other decisions have been issued by our service which suggest intervention by the 
bank wouldve uncovered the scam.
In August 2022, Mr E was cautious and was wanting to withdraw his funds. So, any 
red flags raised by Barclays wouldve stopped him from sending any further 
payments and resulted in him withdrawing the balance of his crypto wallet  
preventing his loss.
As the case couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 26 September 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining I intended to reach the 
same outcome as the investigator. But, as I was going to cover the customer service 
element of Mr Es complaint which hadnt previously been addressed, I wanted to share my 
reasoning with both parties and give them the opportunity to respond before I issued a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Usually as part of a scam, the customer moves the money to a crypto wallet and then 
immediately onto the scammer  which results in their loss. In this case, Mr E moved the 
money to his crypto wallet, where the money remained for several days until the scammer 
accessed Mr Es crypto wallet and withdrew the balance. This is important as it means that 
the loss Mr E suffered wasnt when he moved the money from his Barclays account, instead 
the loss came from unauthorised access to his cryptocurrency wallet.
However, I did consider whether intervention by Barclays when Mr E made the payments 
wouldve made a difference and prevented Mr Es loss. Based on the circumstances of this 
case, Im not satisfied it would have and Ill explain why.
Would intervention have made a difference?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Barclays are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And its not disputed that Mr E made and 
authorised these payments, although I accept that he did so, not realising that his funds 
were at risk.
Based on Mr Es previous account usage, the size and frequency of the payments he made 
to his crypto wallet and the specifics of the payments  I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have identified a potential scam risk or intervene until October 2022, when Mr E made a 
payment of £18,000.
Initially the payments Mr E made to his crypto wallet were all for under £1,500, and even 
where he made two or three payments on one day  they werent for a significant total value. 
By November 2021, Mr E was sending larger payments and sent up to £2,000 on one day. 
However, based on this being an existing payee and considering the previous payment 
pattern, Im still not satisfied that Barclays shouldve identified a scam risk. Mr E then didnt 
make any payments between January 2022 and 24 March 2022. The payments he made in 
March, May and June 2022 were for larger amounts again, but still werent significantly 
larger in value or frequency that meant they were unusual or out of character for his account.
I appreciate that it constituted a lot of money for Mr E, but a balance has to be struck 
between Barclays identifying potentially concerning payments, and responding appropriately 
to any concerns, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
But the payment Mr E made on 26 October 2022, was for £18,000. This was significantly 
higher than any other payment he had previously made, and it was the second payment on 
that day, which meant the total he had sent was over £23,000. So, I wouldve expected 
Barclays to intervene and ask Mr E some questions about the payment to satisfy themselves 
he wasnt potentially the victim of a scam.
At this point, Mr E had been making payments to his crypto wallet for over 18 months, been 
able to successfully withdraw funds from his crypto wallet into his Barclays account, had 
been making his own trades (albeit on the advice of D) and hadnt had any funds stolen 
from him. While he had made some losses based on the trades he made, he hadnt been 
scammed out of any money at that point and he wasnt aware that D had access to his 
crypto wallet. Based on the type of questions I think Barclays shouldve asked and the 
information they wouldve been given, I think its unlikely they wouldve identified Mr E as a 
potential scam victim. I dont agree with Mr E that they wouldve identified red flags or raised 
concerns with him. All of Mr Es interactions with D up to that point, werent consistent with a 
typical scam  although I accept that Mr E had found malware on the device he used to open 
his crypto wallet. I think its easy with hindsight to draw inferences as to what happened, but 
Im not satisfied that it wouldve been easily identifiable in a conversation between Barclays 
and Mr E prior to the unauthorised withdrawal of Mr Es funds from his crypto wallet.
Mr E has referenced other decisions issued by our service about cryptocurrency scams, 
which he feels suggest that he should be refunded his loss. However, I can only reach an 
answer based on the circumstances and evidence specific to Mr Es complaint. And, having 
carefully considered all of the points Mr E has raised, Im not satisfied that I can fairly hold 
Barclays liable for his loss.
For completeness its worth adding that I wouldnt expect Barclays to have attempted to 
recover Mr Es funds. I say this because they could only contact the cryptocurrency 
exchange to try and return any money left in Mr Es wallet. As all of the funds were removed 
from the wallet, there wasnt anything further that Barclays couldve done.
The level of service Mr E received in raising his fraud claim
Barclays have acknowledged that they didnt follow the correct process when Mr E contacted 
them to raise a fraud claim and paid him £100 compensation for the poor service.
When Barclays incorrectly opened a recurring payment cancellation, Mr E was told that any 
funds lost would be recovered, referring to any payments taken after the payment instruction 
had been cancelled. However, this wasnt clear and meant Mr E thought that he was getting back the funds he lost from his crypto wallet. I can see that Barclays realised a mistake had 
been made and contacted Mr E within a week, letting him know what happened and 
providing him with contact information so he could raise a fraud claim.
Its important to explain that I cant make an award against Barclays for the distress that      
Mr E experienced as a result of losing his funds to a fraudster, and that the awards we make 
are modest. But I can appreciate that being given the wrong information raised Mr Es hopes 
and added to the distress he experienced as a result of the scam. Because it was rectified 
so quickly, I think the £100 Barclays has already paid is fair.
I appreciate that Mr E has lost a substantial amount of money which has severely impacted 
him financially and taken a toll on his health. However, having carefully considered all of the 
evidence, I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund him.
My provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays responded accepting my provisional decision. However, Mr E disagreed with the 
outcome Id reached and raised the following points:
Barclays shouldve asked questions like; whether he was asked by someone to 
download software without knowing what it does and whether hed been in contact 
with an advisor or investment advisor. Then, based on the answers he gave, asked 
him follow up questions. If they had done so, it wouldve been easy for them to 
uncover the scam.
Barclays shouldve queried the £18,000 transfer.
Mr E referenced specific cases that have been brought to our service where a 
consumer lied in answering the banks questions, but it was decided that questioning 
still wouldve uncovered the scam. Also, he referenced several cases where he says 
triggers were considered/applied differently than in his case.
Barclays ignored repeated large transactions.
Barclays should be liable at least from the payment of £18,000 onwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points that Mr E has raised, however they havent persuaded 
me to reach a different outcome than I did in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr E has viewed numerous decisions on our website and believes these 
suggest I should reach a different answer on his case. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, each case is considered on its own merits. Whether or not a payment should have 
been identified as a potential scam risk will vary on each case depending on numerous 
factors, not limited to but including; the size of the payment, whether its unusual compared 
to the consumers previous account usage and whether its part of a series of payments.
 
Having reconsidered the payments in Mr Es case, Im not satisfied that Barclays shouldve 
been concerned or identified a scam risk before Mr E made the payment of £18,000 in October 2022. I say this taking into account the size and frequency of the payments made 
over the 18-month period as well as the payment pattern and account usage. 
Ive also reconsidered the questions that I wouldve expected Barclays to ask and whether I 
think they couldve uncovered the scam based on those questions and the information that 
was available at the time Mr E made the £18,000 payment. 
Mr Es case is unique, in that he didnt lose any money until 18 months after he made the 
first payment to his crypto wallet. During that period of time, he was completing trades from 
his crypto wallet, with the only losses being those caused by the trades he was making. He 
was also able to successfully withdraw funds from his crypto wallet into his Barclays 
account. This does not fit with the usual pattern that we see in cryptocurrency investment 
scam cases and impacts on the types of questions that I would expect Barclays to ask if they 
had intervened in October 2022. 
Mr E thinks Barclays shouldve asked if he had downloaded any software. However, that is a 
very specific question which I think is easy to highlight with the benefit of hindsight. 
The information available at the point Mr E made the £18,000 payment included: 
The cryptocurrency wallet was in his name and no funds had been stolen during the 
time he had been using it.
Mr E was completing the trades himself, albeit with the advice of someone hed met 
online.
While he had made some losses, this was as a result of the trades he made, not due 
to someone taking his money.
He had shared screen shots with a friend of the cryptocurrency exchange with whom 
he was opening his wallet and they confirmed it was a genuine company.
Mr E had retained access and control of his crypto wallet up to the time he made the 
£18,000 payment. 
I accept that questions are likely to have highlighted that Mr E met the person who was 
giving him trading advice online, and that they were pressuring him to continue investing. 
However, Im not convinced that balancing these two pieces of information against the 
ongoing control he had over his crypto wallet, his trades and the funds/balance held in his 
crypto wallet wouldve concerned Barclays whereby I wouldve expected them to not follow 
Mr Es payment instructions. 
Im not convinced that questioning wouldve led to them asking about whether Mr E had 
downloaded any software. I think it mightve led to them asking how he had set up his crypto 
wallet and whether he had control over his crypto wallet. But at that point in time, Im not 
convinced that questioning is likely to have highlighted that he was potentially the victim of a 
scam or that Barclays couldve foreseen what was to happen a few weeks later when his 
crypto wallet was accessed without his knowledge and the balance was removed.
Im also not persuaded that Barclays are likely to have raised red flags that wouldve resulted 
in Mr E not making any further payments. At the point he made the payment of £18,000 he 
had already made payments of over £45,000 over the 18-month period and withdrawn over 
£10,000 from his crypto wallet which was paid back into his Barclays account.
So, having considered the information that was available and the types of questions that 
Barclays shouldve asked when Mr E made the £18,000 payment  Im not satisfied that they 
wouldve uncovered the scam or couldve prevented Mr Es loss.I realise that Mr E is going to be extremely disappointed, but having carefully considered all 
the points hes raised, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman