DRN-1965404
The complaint
Mr O complains as a director of A, a company, that it was missold a landlord policy by 
Access Underwriting Ltd for multiple flats, resulting in that policy being voided for 
misrepresentation.
What happened
A bought its policy through Access in May 2016. In June 2018 a public liability claim was 
made against A. The insurers loss adjuster spoke to a representative of A at the property. 
As a result it thought there had been a misrepresentation when the policy was taken out. 
Specifically it said that tenancy agreements for one or more properties were arranged 
between the tenant and the local authority and not between the tenant and A. This was, it 
said, contrary to the policy requirements. It said the tenants included homeless people, 
people with mental health issues and ex-offenders. The insurer said that had it known this, it 
wouldnt have offered a policy so it voided the policy from its start. 
Access said that it had specifically advised the insurer that the properties were let to a mix of 
professional and DSS tenants. It also checked with A that the tenancy agreements were 
made directly between A and the tenants. The insurer still sought to avoid the policy, as the 
nature of the tenants (apart from being DSS or professional) hadnt been disclosed.
A made a complaint about the insurer which is still being considered by this service.
A said that it wasnt advised about the terms of the insurance by Access and that it failed to 
sell it a policy suitable for a charitable organisation.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Access had acted reasonably.
A didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whatever the result of the complaint against the insurer I dont think Access has done 
anything wrong here. While Mr O has said the policy wasnt suitable for a charitable 
organisation I cant see that that is the case here.
On the face of it if Access had failed to tell the insurer of the nature of the tenants (DSS or 
professional) at the various flats, then it may have been at fault. But it made it clear that the 
lets were part professional and part DSS, arranged through the local authority. From what 
the insurer said Ive seen no evidence that any of the tenancy agreements were between the 
local authority and the tenant  the agreements Ive seen are directly between A and the 
individual tenants.
As for disclosing the exact nature of the tenants, whether ex-offenders, people with mental 
health issues or homeless, I cant see that that was a requirement of the policy, nor was it 
asked by the insurer. In any event such tenants werent actively sought by A, and theres no 
evidence that Access knew if any such tenants existed. So it wasnt possible even if the 
insurer had wanted to know the nature of the tenants for Access to tell A about this.
I think Access acted reasonably in setting up the policy and dont think it was missold.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman