DRN-2652243
The complaint
Ms O complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a store card. 
The policy was sold by a retailer, but AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the 
sale. Ill refer to AXA in this decision.
What happened
 Ms O bought a PPI policy alongside a store card in August 1997. The policy covered the 
repayments towards the card if Ms O lost her job or was unable to work because of accident 
or sickness. The policy also covered purchases on the card against accidental damage and 
theft. Ms O thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought that it should be upheld. He said that 
Ms O appeared to have been a temporary worker, working less than 16 hours a week, when 
she bought the policy. He thought this would have made it harder for Ms O to make a 
successful claim on the policy  and didnt think that provision was made clear to Ms O 
before she agreed to buy it.
AXA agreed with the adjudicator, and offered to put Ms O in the financial position shed be in 
if she hadnt bought the policy. It offered to pay Ms O £133.62.
Ms O doesnt think this amount is correct. She says that the offer didnt include simple 
interest, to compensate her for the time she was out of pocket. She also thinks she paid 
more in premiums than AXA has worked out.
We asked AXA about this. It said that Ms O didnt pay everything she owed towards the 
card: the account was still in debt when it closed  and this debt was then sold to a third 
party. It says Ms O would still have owed them some money even if she hadnt bought the 
PPI. And so it didnt propose to pay any simple interest, as Ms O hadnt been out of pocket.
Ms O sent us information from the third party that bought the debt with details of the 
payments shed made to the account. Our adjudicator looked at this and thought AXA should 
add simple interest to its compensation.
AXA responded with another copy of its offer. Despite chasing for a response, we have not 
received a response to our assessment. The complaint has therefore been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has now agreed the complaint that PPI was mis-sold should be upheld, and so the 
remaining question for me to decide is whether what AXA has offered to put things right is 
fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a business shouldnt have sold a PPI policy, Id 
normally expect the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt 
bought the PPI.
Here, the cost of the PPI was charged to Ms Os store card, and so this cost would attract 
interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. This means Ms O owed more to 
the card  and so a larger debt was sold to the third party  than she would have done if she 
hadnt bought PPI. She needs to get back the extra she was charged. And if her payments 
meant that shed paid more to repay this debt than shed have paid if she hadnt had PPI, 
she should get simple interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Premiums and interest
AXA has worked out it charged Ms O £68.89 in premiums. Ms O says she thinks she was 
charged more than this, based on how long the account was open. But AXA has sent 
records showing the total purchases, premiums and interest ever charged to the account. 
The £68.89 included in the refund matches the amount shown on these records.
AXA worked out that it charged Ms O an extra £64.73 in interest because of the PPI that was 
charged to the account. 
Ive looked at how it did this. Because of the time thats passed, AXA no longer has a full set 
of statements showing what Ms O spent and paid each month to the account  its detailed 
records begin in September 2005. Ms O has confirmed she doesnt have any records either. 
I dont think this is surprising given the time thats passed since Ms O applied for the 
account. But AXA does know how much it charged Ms O in total for the PPI, and how much 
interest it charged in total to Ms Os card  and has used this information to estimate the 
interest that was caused by the PPI. 
I note that although the premiums charged to the account were around 13% of Ms Os total 
spending on the card, the method AXA uses means she gets back over a quarter of the 
interest ever charged to the account. In the absence of better information about what Ms O 
spent on the card, I think this fairly reflects the likely impact PPI had on Ms Os account.
Simple interest
Ive next considered whether AXA needs to pay Ms O simple interest to compensate her for 
the time shes been out of pocket.
The reason AXA hasnt paid simple interest so far is because when the account closed Ms O 
still owed the lender money. She owed more than the extra £133.62 that AXA says it 
charged in premiums and interest because of the PPI. And so until Ms O has repaid more 
than shed have owed if she hadnt had PPI, she hasnt been out of pocket, and so wouldnt 
get simple interest. Ive looked at AXAs calculations. It says that when Ms Os account 
closed, she owed the lender £403.95. If Ms O hadnt bought PPI, it says shed have instead 
owed them £270.33.
But Ms O has now sent us information from the third party that bought the debt. This 
confirms that the original balance was £403.95. It says that Ms O paid £381.07 towards this 
debt  with a final payment of £22.88 received on 29 July 2008.
As such, Im satisfied that Ms O has now paid the third party more than shed have needed 
to pay if she hadnt bought the PPI. Shes been out of pocket. And so in line with our well 
established approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, and the rules the Financial 
Conduct Authority requires businesses to follow when looking at complaint about PPI, I think AXA needs to recalculate its offer to take into account the fact that Ms O has now repaid the 
extra it charged her for PPI.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Ms O in the position shed be in if it hadnt sold the policy.
This means AXA needs to refund Ms O the £68.89 it charged in premiums and £64.73 it 
estimates it charged in interest.
Ms O has fully repaid the extra she was charged in interest and premiums. I dont have full 
records from the third party showing when Ms O made each extra payment or how much she 
paid each time. But I know AXA sold the debt in around December 2006, and Ms O had 
repaid it by July 2008. To keep things simple and to ensure Ms O doesnt lose out, AXA 
should work out simple interest from the date it sold the debt to the third party until the date 
Ms O gets it back.
HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA to deduct income tax from this interest. AXA 
should provide a certificate setting out how it calculated this if Ms O requires one.
My final decision
 For the reasons above I uphold Ms Os complaint. AXA France IARD should put things right 
by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman