DRN-2523364
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has declined a claim for 
damage under a car insurance policy. He also believes Admiral damaged his car whilst it 
was in its care.
All references to Admiral include its representatives on the claim.
What happened
Mr L made a claim in July 2020. He told Admiral that he had hit a pothole which he believed 
damaged the car and as a result it wouldnt start.
The vehicle was inspected by a breakdown recovery company before Admiral arranged its 
own independent assessment of the damage. After two assessments of the damage, 
Admiral declined the claim as it said the damage was wear and tear and maintenance 
related.
Mr L didnt agree and felt that damage was caused to the car when it hit the pothole and that 
the water damage reported happened whilst the car was in Admirals care.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint  he felt that based on evidence and photos 
from Admirals reports, it was fair for Admiral to say the problems were wear and tear 
related.
Because Mr L didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the car damaged as a result of an accident?
For there to be cover under the policy, it must be demonstrated there was an accident that 
caused damage to the car. In this case, Mr L must show that his car hit a pothole, and this 
caused the resultant damage he claims (timing belt issue).
Mr L refers to the recovery report to support his claim for the above, but the report is clear 
that its a suspected diagnosis and requires verification by a garage. It mentions a possible 
timing issue, but it doesnt mention any opinion to show the car hit a pothole and that this 
caused the resulting damage. In my experience of dealing with complaints about damage 
caused by potholes its frequently the case that a tyre and/or wheel rim is damaged. Theres 
no evidence this was the case.
Admiral arranged for the vehicle to be inspected and assessed twice by an independent 
engineer. Both reports conclude there is no evidence to show the vehicle hit a pothole or any 
other object (even after removing the lower engine shield) and they say damage is down to 
wear and tear/maintenance.
Given the limitations of the RAC report, I am more persuaded by the independent engineers 
report and Im satisfied its more likely than not the car was not damaged as a result of an 
accident as Mr L claims. So, I dont consider Admiral is responsible for providing cover for 
the damage under the terms of the policy.
Mr L says there were no issues before he hit the pothole and that Admiral doesnt know the 
exact fault as it didnt open the engine to check. I dont consider that Admiral needs to 
establish the exact fault, or indeed open the engine to determine this if it can reasonably 
draw a conclusion on the cause of the damage. Mr L alleged he hit a pothole, and this 
caused damage to his car. Im satisfied Admiral has shown, on balance, that wasnt the 
case. 
Was the car damaged whilst in Admirals care?
Mr L says the water damage to electrics referred to in the second report carried out by 
Admiral occurred whilst the car was in Admirals care.
The evidence hes provided consists of a full service where the vehicle underwent servicing 
checks, along with a MOT, shortly before the incident in July 2020. Mr L also points out that 
the RAC report doesnt mention electrical problems. And he says there was nothing wrong 
until the short period of time Admiral had his vehicle.
Ive already outlined above that the RAC report is limited in its scope compared to a report 
prepared by an engineer assessing the cause of damage. I dont consider the RAC report is 
enough to conclude the car was free from any ongoing or potential water damage issues.
I think the same applies to the evidence Mr L has provided about the vehicle service and 
MOT. I dont consider that either of these prove that the engine or electrics were free from 
any potential defects and I dont think they disprove what the independent engineer reported 
following their inspection. It is quite possible, and I think in this case likely, that the service 
and MOT checks didnt pick up these problems because theyre not usually serviceable 
points. A vehicle service and MOT are entirely different from a focused vehicle inspection.
The second report from the independent engineer concludes that water in a chamber under 
the windshield damaged the electronic control units in the area. Importantly, the engineer 
noted a high level of leaves and detritus under the bonnet and concluded water built up over 
time and then entered the electrical components causing the issues  this is supported by 
pictures taken by the engineer. In the engineers professional opinion, this was a wear and 
tear/maintenance issue caused by a build-up, over time, of debris that blocked the water 
drains.
I am more persuaded by the clear comments of the inspecting independent engineer than 
the evidence Mr L has referred to. I therefore think its more likely than not the damage 
caused by water was due to issues that had been ongoing for a period, before Admiral was 
in control of the car. 
Overall, based on the evidence, I dont find that there was an insured event that caused the 
damage, nor do I think Admiral caused any damage to the car whilst in control of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman