DRN-3460516
The complaint
Mr V complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 4 August 2010, Mr V applied for a running account credit facility with Shop Direct. He 
was given an initial credit limit of £400. The credit limit was increased eight times until the 
credit limit became £2400 on 7 July 2012. 
On 22 October 2020, Mr V complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt 
have been opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to 
have made a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his 
credit limits.
Our adjudicator originally upheld the complaint in part. Shop Direct disagreed. Our 
adjudicator considered the further submissions made and decided this was a complaint 
that shouldnt be upheld. Mr V didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Vs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr V has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times that credit was provided. Shop Direct has explained 
that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it 
was able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr V with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through the credit 
increases the account was largely well managed and Mr V was not using the full credit 
limit available to him. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr V to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Mr V was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr V was 
managing his account or what Shop Direct could see of his management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr V will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr V to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman