DRN-3157183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Society of Lloyd's (SoL) avoided their home insurance policy 
and declined to pay a subsidence claim.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs C Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points 
they have made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by both parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
SoL set up the policy on the basis of the information it was provided with.
Mr and Mrs C had previously insured the property for a rebuild value in excess of £1 
million, however a value of around £800,000 was provided to SoL.
When validating Mr and Mrs Ss subsidence claim a specialist surveyor estimated a 
rebuild value of the property to be around £1.8m. 
Mr and Mrs S dispute this value but have not provided any evidence of a similar 
standing which supports their view. 
The policy defines what a building includes. Having looked at the surveyors estimate 
Im satisfied that, even if arguably some items were excluded from the valuation, the 
rebuild value still would have exceeded £1 million. 
SoL has shared with this service commercially sensitive information which shows that 
had it been aware of the true rebuild cost of the property, when considered along with 
other features, it would not have offered a policy to Mr and Mrs C.
SoL have arranged for the cost of the premiums for the policies it provided to be 
refunded. It has added interest at 8% to this amount. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable thing to do and is in line with the legislation which governs this type of 
situation.
It took SoL nine months to identify the issue with the valuation of the property and to 
avoid the policy.  It recognises this would have caused Mr and Mrs S trouble and 
upset and have offered them £500 compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
amount. 
As the policy has been avoided SoL do not have to meet the subsidence claim Mr 
and Mrs C have made. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman