DRN-3090056
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to cancel a loan payment.
What happened
Mr B says he agreed a loan repayment plan with RBS, but it continued to take a payment 
authority from his account of £100. He says that caused him difficulties and asked RBS on a 
number of occasions to resolve the issue.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and RBS agreed to cancel the authority and initially offered 
£100 compensation. But the problem continued, and Mr B asked the investigator for his 
view.
The investigator asked RBS for its business file, but it wasnt received. The investigator 
thought the problem had gone on for some months and recommended RBS pay £300 
compensation, 8% interest on the refunded payments and cancel the payment authority.
RBS accepts that view but says the first payment cant be refunded as that was taken before 
the agreement ended and was used to repay the loan.
Mr B accepts that view but says RBS still hasnt paid the compensation or interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint and cant see why RBS hasnt paid the money it 
agreed to pay or replied to us.
There is no need for me to repeat the issues in detail or make detailed findings as both sides 
are in broad agreement. I accept Mr B agreed a repayment plan with RBS in good faith and 
would have been caused inconvenience and distress at what was a financially difficult time. 
Im satisfied that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable and can see both sides also 
agree.
RBS should also cancel the payment authority if it has not already done so and refund any 
payments taken by mistake. I accept that the March 2021 payment may have been taken 
before the agreement ended and in any event was used against the loan. In those 
circumstances I dont intend to order RBS refund that payment or pay interest on it. I dont 
think that issue requires a provisional decision and can see that is not the main part of Mr 
Bs complaint.
Putting things right
I intend to order RBS to pay Mr B £300 compensation which I can see it has fairly agreed to 
do. It should cancel the payment authority, but I accept that is likely to have been cancelled 
now. RBS should also pay 8% simple interest on any payments taken by mistake after but 
not including March 2021 which is likely to be the just the July 2021 payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay Mr B £300 compensation and if necessary, cancel the payment authority. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest on any payments taken in error from, but not including the, March 
2021 payment until settlement. If taxation is deducted on that payment of the interest, then 
Mr B should be provided with the usual certificate of taxation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman