DRN-3447163
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wouldnt allow her access to 
a branch.
What happened
Mrs F and her husband applied to emigrate to New Zealand and as part of that they needed 
to transfer their investment accounts into joint names or into the sole name of Mr F. Mrs F 
had a Loyalty ISA in her own name with Nationwide, with a balance of £32,851. She and her 
husband visited a branch of Nationwide on 19 August 2020 but were refused entry. On 21 
August 2020 Mrs F wrote to the Nationwide branch with her passbook asking for the ISA to 
be closed. Nationwide said this couldnt be done by post and she needed to visit a branch or 
do that online. Mrs F visited the branch again on 1 September 2020 and closed her account. 
Nationwide launched their Mutual Reward Bond on 29 September 2020. This was for 
existing customers and had a maximum balance of £10,000 and was fixed for 18 months. It 
had a guaranteed rate of 0.5% per annum. There was a prize fund draw with a prize of 
£10,000. It was withdrawn from sale on 10 December 2020.
Mrs F complained. She said she wasnt allowed into the branch on 19 August 2020  the 
doorman said that Nationwide werent accepting new account applications at that stage (due 
to Covid restrictions). She said that what she wanted to do was to transfer the Loyalty ISA 
into the joint names of herself and her husband but leave a small balance in her own name. 
She said that when she was refused entry to the branch, she was forced to close the 
account completely, which is what she then did. She said she was inconvenienced because 
she wrote to Nationwide on 21 August 2020 to close her account  and then she was told to 
do that by visiting the branch  which she had already done. 
So  Mrs F said there were three main consequences of what had happened: 1) the 
emigration application to New Zealand was delayed 2) she lost interest and 3) she wanted to 
apply for Nationwides Mutual Reward Bond which was launched on 29 September 2020  
but couldnt as she had closed her account. Separately, she complained that Nationwide had 
emailed her  but this couldnt be correct as she had never advised them of an email 
address and didnt use a computer or mobile phone.
Nationwide said that during the pandemic lockdown, they asked customers to only visit 
branches if it was essential. They accepted that Mrs F may have been turned away 
incorrectly on 19 August 2020. When Mrs F later visited the branch  on 1 September 2020, 
a replacement passbook was issued and her ISA was closed and the balance given to her 
by cheque. During her visit she didnt ask about transferring to a joint account. As such, she 
didnt qualify for the Mutual Reward Bond  as she wasnt a customer when it was launched. 
On the matter of the email address, this had been held on their system since 2013, and was 
provided to them by Mrs F. Because they made an error in refusing entry to the branch on 
19 August 2020, they sent a cheque for £50 to Mrs F.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said she was persuaded that Mrs F 
wanted to transfer her ISA into the joint names of herself and her husband and given that 
Nationwide werent opening new accounts at the time, it was likely that she was turned 
away. And because of that, she then closed her account. But that didnt make any 
difference, because the terms and conditions of the ISA said that an ISA couldnt be held in 
joint names  so it wouldnt have been possible to do so. She couldnt see there was any lost 
interest  as Nationwide were paying 0.8% and the building society which Mrs F wanted to 
transfer the money to was paying 0.25%. Because Mrs F closed her account on 1 
September 2020  she didnt qualify for the Mutual Reward Bond. On the matter of the email 
address  she could see that it was being used by the New Zealand emigration authority, 
and so it looked like it was a family email address. During our investigation, Nationwide 
agreed to pay a further £50 in compensation for the inconvenience suffered by Mrs F when 
she was refused entry to the branch.
Mrs F responded and said had she been allowed access to the branch on 19 August 2020, 
she wouldve transferred most of the £32,851 out of Nationwide and left the balance in an 
account with them. So, she would then have been able to apply for the Mutual Reward Bond 
as an existing customer. She reiterated that her application to emigrate to New Zealand had 
been delayed because of what happened. And so, the proposed compensation wasnt 
enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide have accepted that Mrs F was probably incorrectly refused entry to the branch 
on 19 August 2020. They were advising customers only to visit branches for essential 
business and to use online banking and ATMs instead. Mrs F has given a persuasive 
account of what happened outside the branch when she wanted to visit it  and Nationwide 
have accepted what shes said.
And so  given that, I must decide on what the consequences of that were. Mrs F has said 
she needed to transfer all of her and her husbands investments into their joint names or the 
sole name of her husband. This was needed to support their application to emigrate to New 
Zealand. Mrs F has shown us the correspondence to confirm this to be the case. And so, it 
seems to me that she wanted to transfer her Nationwide ISA into joint names also. But the 
terms and conditions dont allow a Loyalty ISA in joint names  so even if she had been able 
to get into the branch it wouldnt have been allowed. And so  she wouldve had to have 
withdrawn all the money from the ISA anyway  and put it into a joint account either with 
Nationwide or another bank. Nationwide say that when Mrs F visited the branch again on 1 
September 2020, she just closed the account and there wasnt a discussion about such a 
transfer. Mrs F said  in October 2020 in her two letters of complaint -  that she intended to 
leave a small balance with Nationwide (to apply for the Mutual Reward Bond which was 
launched for existing customers on 29 September 2020). I accept that was her intention.
Looking at the consequences of what happened  Mrs F says she lost out on interest. Ive 
considered this. The Nationwide ISA paid 0.8%p.a. And the building society account where 
she transferred the money to paid less - 0.25%p.a. Mrs F told us that. So  there wasnt any 
loss of interest there. 
Mrs F says she would have opened a Mutual Reward Bond. The maximum balance allowed 
was £10,000 and the interest rate was 0.5%p.a. It was fixed for 18 months. It paid less than 
the Nationwide ISA and therefore there wasnt any loss of interest to Mrs F. Of course, she 
wouldve had the chance to win £10,000 in a prize draw  but I dont think its reasonable for 
me to say she wouldve won that prize.
Turning to the delay of her emigration to New Zealand  the delay was for two weeks  from 19 August 2020 to 1 September 2020. Mrs F showed us correspondence from the New 
Zealand emigration authorities which said all the necessary papers had been received by 11 
September 2020. So  the delay was a short one. And of course, I think its fair to say that 
the emigration process can be very slow  Mrs F showed us another email which said their 
application was in a queue, to be looked at in April 2022. And so  I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that a two-week delay in that context was significant.
Mrs F has also said that Nationwide added an email address to her account without her 
agreement. Nationwide said it was added in 2013  but they didnt have a record of who 
advised it to them, given how long ago it had been. But I also saw that the New Zealand 
emigration authority were using the same email address  and so it does appear to be a 
known address that Mrs F and her husband use. So, Im not persuaded that there couldve 
been any financial information sent to a wrong email address by Nationwide. And so  I dont 
think Nationwide were at fault here.
I can appreciate that Mrs Fs experience with the branch was not good, and that she was 
inconvenienced by having to visit it twice to deal with her ISA account. And I agree that 
Nationwide should pay some compensation for that. Theyve agreed to pay another £50 for 
what happened. And I think thats the right thing to do here.
My final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £50. This is in addition to the 
£50 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman