DRN-3762525
The complaint
Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc has left her without full access to her bank account. 
What happened
Mrs B failed security and so her HSBC telephone security number (TSN) was locked in 
2021. For this to be reset she needed to complete and return a form, which she did. But she 
also needed to provide proof of identification and proof of address before HSBC could send 
her a new TSN pack. As she lives overseas she needed to send certified copies of the 
relevant documents by post. HSBC did not make this clear to Mrs B until she complained in 
May 2022.
HSBC received the proof it needed on 26 May 2022 and sent the TSN pack on 14 July 2022. 
There was a delay here as HSBC did not process her documents correctly on receipt. The 
last update we had was that Mrs B had still not received the TSN pack. Mrs B is therefore 
limited to accessing her money via her debit card. She wants full access re-instating and 
compensation for the time it has taken to resolve her access issue.
HSBC initially offered £100 compensation for not making clear to Mrs B that she needed to 
send the proof of identification and address. After our involvement it agreed to pay a further 
£50 to recognise that a processing error delayed the dispatch of the TSN pack to Mrs B.
Our investigator felt HSBCs revised offer was fair and reasonable. He said £150 was 
suitable compensation for the delays HSBC was responsible for. But he could not hold it 
responsible for the delays caused by the postal service. He noted it had previously taken ten 
weeks for post from HSBC to reach Mrs B overseas. He added that whilst Mrs B has offered 
to cover the cost of HSBC using DHL and the bank had opted not to do this, he could not 
say the bank was at fault as it had followed its standard dispatch process in such 
circumstances.
Mrs B disagreed with this assessment. She said the offer does not resolve the issue of her 
lack of online access. The TSN pack may never arrive. And she had accepted the £100 offer 
on the basis it would not affect any future claims against HSBC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am satisfied that HSBCs revised offer represents a fair and reasonable 
settlement to Mrs Bs complaint. I do accept as Mrs Bs point that it does not represent a 
solution to her lack of access. But that is not wholly HSBCs fault, and the offer 
acknowledges there have been two failure points in the process where HSBC could have 
done things better  ie. notifying Mrs B what documentation was needed and processing the 
certified documents she returned more promptly. 
The final failure point  the time between HSBC sending the TSN pack, which would have 
allowed Mrs B full access again, and Mrs B receiving it is not something I can fairly hold 
HSBC liable for. Mrs B accepts the postal service she is reliant on can be erratic, with post 
from HSBC having taken ten weeks previously. As our investigator explained we cannot 
instruct a bank to change its processes  it is the job of the regulator to review processes, 
systems and policies. We can only check that a bank has treated a customer fairly and not 
made any errors. In sending the TSN pack as it would to all other overseas customers HSBC 
has not made a mistake or acted unfairly.
If the pack has still not arrived and needs to be re-sent I would however expect HSBC to 
look at all the options it has to assist Mrs B and get a replacement TSN pack to her. It should 
proactively contact her to agree a way forward if the issue remains unresolved.
Overall, whilst I understand the inconvenience Mrs B experienced, I have to take into 
account that this problem started as she failed security and HSBC has an obligation to 
protect its customers funds. And Mrs B has still had access to her money via her debit card. 
I find that a total compensation payment of £150 recognises the inconvenience she has 
suffered. To clarify, Mrs Bs prior acceptance of the £100 has not detrimentally impacted this 
finding as she seems to suggest.
Putting things right
HSBC should now pay Mrs B the additional £50. She should confirm where she wants the 
payment to be made to directly to HSBC.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman