DRN-3212809
The complaint
Mr G and Ms B complain as executors of the late Mr Gs estate that Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) wont refund the £18,000 he lost in a scam. They are the late Mr Gs 
son and daughter. 
  
What happened
Mr G and Ms B say the late Mr G was the victim of financial abuse by his cleaner resulting 
in payments to her totalling £18,000 from a Nationwide savings account. A criminal case 
was brought against the cleaner and the cleaner was convicted and imprisoned for fraud 
by false representation (in respect of the £18,000 Nationwide payments) and theft. The 
theft charge relates to the cleaners use of another of the late Mr Gs accounts.
I understand the late Mr G was persuaded to loan money to the cleaner which wasnt 
returned. I believe from what the late Mr Gs son has told the service he went in to branch 
to get a cheque for £9,000 from his savings account payable to the cleaner on 1 November 
2017. The cleaner then told the late Mr G it would take too long for the cheque to clear so 
the following day he went in to branch to take out £2,000 in cash and to make a CHAPS 
payment of £7,000 to the cleaner. It was agreed the cheque would be ripped up but this 
didnt happen and the late Mr G lost £18,000 which Nationwide hasnt refunded.
Nationwide said it was unable to establish the nature of the conversations that took place at 
the time of the payments given the period of time that has elapsed since they were made. 
But it said it would have questioned the late Mr G and if it had been concerned about his 
replies it would have followed the banking protocol. Nationwide also pointed out that there 
were no flags to suggest the late Mr G was vulnerable and no power of attorney was in 
place. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She said that Nationwide 
should have flagged the payment, but she didnt think more in-depth questions would have 
prevented the late Mr G from making the payments. This was because at the time the late 
Mr G trusted his cleaner and was unaware of any reason not to. 
Mr G provided a detailed response to the investigators opinion. Ill summarise the salient 
points:
- He consulted a number of different organisations including a consumer group and a 
bank. The consensus was that three payments amounting to £18,000 in two days 
were very unusual and shouldnt have been made. The Nationwide staff member 
should have involved a manager and taken his father in to a room to discuss the 
payments. Had detailed questions been asked the late Mr G would have faltered 
and this would have alerted Nationwide to a potential risk. 
- Mr G questioned why Nationwide didnt record more detail and said the lack of 
evidence shows it didnt do anything. Mr G questioned whether Nationwides 
complaints procedure is fit for purpose if proper records arent kept. 
- The late Mr G was prepared to go to the police once he was aware hed been 
scammed. Mr G asked this service to consider his opinion that he would have made 
a complaint if hed been alerted at the time. 
- An article printed in 2014 states Nationwide now reserve the right for cashiers to 
request written proof in a move to combat fraud. Mr G asked why this didnt happen 
in his fathers case given his age, the value of the unusual transactions and the 
balance he was left with. 
I reviewed the complaint and felt that Nationwide should refund the payments the late Mr G 
made on 2 November 2017. I said this because I was persuaded that Nationwide staff 
would have known about the £9,000 cheque the previous day and should have asked the 
late Mr G why he was making another large payment to the same payee. I thought the late 
Mr G would have struggled to provide a plausible explanation for the further payment. The 
late Mr G would also have been alerted to the fact the cheque from the previous day hadnt 
been destroyed as agreed. I concluded that once he was aware of this fact, he wouldnt 
have made any further payments to his cleaner on 2 November 2017. 
Nationwide agreed to my recommendation, but Mr G didnt. In summary, he felt that branch 
staff on 2 November 2017 missed an opportunity to discuss the transactions the late Mr G 
made on 1 and 2 November 2017 and the potential risk of financial harm. Had Nationwide 
staff have done so, Mr G believes his father would have asked for the cheque from 1 
November 2017 to be cancelled and so would not have suffered a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Id like to say how sorry I am that Mr G and Ms B have needed to contact us in these 
circumstances and to hear of the distress the events leading to this complaint caused the 
late Mr G. 
I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with the late 
Mr G when he made the payments. I have considered the position carefully. 
Did Nationwide act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Nationwide should 
have been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So, Ive first 
considered whether the payment requests the late Mr G made were unusual or 
uncharacteristic. The late Mr G hadnt withdrawn any funds in the period I have statements 
for (from 2012 onwards). So Im satisfied the payments were unusual. In these 
circumstances Id expect Nationwide to ask the late Mr G proportionate questions to satisfy 
itself he wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
I havent seen any evidence of a discussion with the late Mr G about the first payment of 
£9,000 on 1 November 2017. I appreciate Nationwide says it no longer has records, but the 
complaint was brought to it in August/September 2020 and the transactions took place less 
than three years before, in November 2017, so Id expect Nationwide to have retained 
records. Id expect Nationwide to be able to demonstrate it asked Mr G proportionate 
questions about the reason for the payment in order to satisfy itself he wasnt at risk.
Mr G has questioned whether Nationwides complaints procedure is fit for purpose given 
that proper records werent kept. My role is to reach a decision on the individual 
circumstances of the late Mr Gs case rather than comment on procedures so I cant make 
a finding on this point. 
Ive thought about the kind of questions I think Nationwide should reasonably have asked 
the late Mr G about the £9,000 cheque payment and whether I think theyd have made a 
difference in the circumstances of this case. It seems from information gained in the case 
against the other bank while the late Mr G was still alive and from evidence provided by 
the police (again in Mr Gs lifetime) that he referred to the payment as a loan. 
After careful consideration Im not persuaded that any questions around this explanation 
would have led to any concern the late Mr G was the victim of financial abuse in respect of 
the £9,000 cheque. If the payment was a loan, Id expect Nationwide to caution the late Mr 
G about the risk it wasnt repaid, but I think this is a risk the late Mr G could have foreseen. 
And at that stage the late Mr G had no reason not to trust his cleaner. 
So Im not persuaded that Nationwide should provide a refund in respect of the £9,000 
cheque issued to the late Mr Gs cleaner on 1 November 2017. 
Mr G has referred to the fact that from 2014 Nationwide reserved the right to ask of 
evidence when processing transactions. But I wouldnt expect Nationwide to ask for 
evidence in situations where it doesnt have concerns and, given that it was a loan to 
someone the late Mr G knew, its unlikely there was any evidence he could have provided. 
The position is different the following day though. Nationwide has been able to 
evidence that some sort of conversation took place when the late Mr G made the 
£7,000 CHAPS payment as it has provided notes that say,sending £7,000 to Barclays account to a family member so she can buy a 
car And, 
money to be sent to granddaughters account in [another bank].
Nationwide has confirmed to this service that at the time this payment was made the staff 
member who served the late Mr G would have been aware of the cheque payment the 
previous day. So by this stage the late Mr G was looking to pay the same individual 
£16,000 in two days. Its not clear if £2,000 cash was withdrawn before or after the 
CHAPS payment was made. If it was taken out before and so was apparent to the staff 
member who served the late Mr G hed have asked to withdraw/transfer £18,000 in two 
days and his savings account balance would have been reduced to less than £2,000.
The records Nationwide has provided dont demonstrate that on 2 November 2017 the 
discussion with the late Mr G went any further than the reason for the payment. I dont 
think the discussion went far enough, particularly in light of the £9,000 cheque the day 
before. I dont consider the late Mr G would have been able to provide a plausible reason 
for payments totalling at least £16,000 to be made to the same individual over a two-day 
period if relevant questions had been asked. According to evidence provided to the police 
during his lifetime the late Mr G believed the cheque hed given his cleaner the day before 
had been ripped up. Ive pasted below this evidence,
Mr G[full name] agreed to lend £9000 to [name of cleaner] to pay off some debts, on the 
understanding that it was a loan and would be paid back. He wrote her out a cheque but 
she later contacted him and said that the cheque would not clear in time. She therefore 
asked if he could transfer her the money and she would rip up the cheque. He agreed to 
do so but she paid the cheque in and took both lots of £9000, neither of which have ever 
been paid back. You can see the amounts coming out of his bank account.
So if the staff member who served the late Mr G on 2 November 2017 had discussed the 
cheque the previous day the late Mr G would have been alerted to the fact the cheque 
was cashed and hed have had reason to question the trust he placed in his cleaner. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that the late Mr G wouldnt have made 
any further payments. And even if the late Mr G didnt change his mind about the 
transactions on 2 November 2017, I believe by this stage Nationwide should have had 
sufficient concerns to decide not to make the payment without some evidence from the 
late Mr G. This is particularly so given the late Mr Gs age and what Nationwide will have 
known about people like him being targeted by fraudsters.
As Ive said, Im uncertain if £2,000 was withdrawn before or after the CHAPS payment on 2 
November, but I dont think it matters. The cash was withdrawn in branch and given the 
sudden increase in spending it seems to me that even if it was withdrawn first there should 
have been a conversation about what it was for given the £9,000 cheque the day before  in 
which case what Ive said above applies.
Ive carefully considered what Mr G has said in respect of the discussions that might have 
taken place on 2 November 2017. Having done so, Im still not persuaded Nationwide 
should refund any further sums. Whilst I understand how disappointing this will be for Mr G 
and Ms B, I dont believe that at this stage there was enough for Nationwide staff to believe 
the late Mr G was being coerced. 
I consider that had Nationwide have discussed the CHAPS payment in more detail with the 
late Mr G (and the fact hed drawn a cheque the day before) hed either have asked it to 
cancel the cheque from the day before and continued with the CHAPS payment or he wouldnt have made the transactions he did on 2 November 2017. Im persuaded that at that 
stage the cleaner would have explained away the fact the payment was being made twice 
and the late Mr G wouldnt have become aware he was the victim of financial abuse. I 
consider that he wanted to lend his cleaner £9,000 and would have done so. Im mindful of 
the fact the late Mr G didnt become aware he was the victim of financial abuse until some 
time later and that I cant review this complaint with the benefit of hindsight. 
Mr G has referred to the fact that once the late Mr G was aware he was being scammed he 
was prepared to take the matter to the police. Whilst I accept this, by the time the late Mr G 
went to the police there was clear evidence that his cleaner hadnt been honest with him. 
This wasnt the case in early November 2017. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances I believe Nationwide should refund the £9,000 payments made on 2 
November 2017 together with interest as set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society should now pay the estate of 
the late Mr G £9,000 plus interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr G 
and the estate of the late Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman