DRN-2757113
The complaint
 Ms H complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Yorkshire Bank (Clydesdale) failed to 
provide her with her annual savings accounts statements. 
What happened
Ms H says Clydesdale failed to send her both the half yearly and annual statement for an 
ISA she held along with a breakdown of the interest applied to a previous ISA she held, with 
them. Ms H says she then tried to telephone Clydesdale to discuss this but couldnt get 
through. Ms H says she then sent an online complaint and was promised in writing that the 
missing statements would be sent, but these never arrived. 
Clydesdale have apologised for the problems Ms H experienced and offered her £50 by way 
of compensation for the inconvenience caused and confirmed the missing statements would 
be sent to her. Clydesdale says the difficulties in part were caused by the high volume of 
calls received by its contact centre during the pandemic. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Clydesdales response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt the reason why the statements didnt arrive was because Ms H hadnt informed 
Clydesdale of her change of address before its response to her complaint. The Investigator 
says Clydesdales offer of £50 by way of apology was fair given that she had now received 
the statements she had asked for.
Clydesdale have since provided Ms H with all the statements, aside from the half year 
statement to June 2020 and have again apologised that this cant now be provided. 
Clydesdale says the annual statement for 2020-21 they have provided Ms H with, would 
show all the information she required as no other transactions took place that year, apart 
from the interest payment in January 2021. 
Ms H remains unhappy with Clydesdales response and says they have been untruthful 
given they previously told her the half yearly ISA statement to June 2020 was being sent to 
her, when in fact it was never produced in the first place. Ms H doesnt feel the 
compensation offered fairly reflects the upset and inconvenience she has gone through and 
has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Ms H not to have 
received the statements on the savings accounts she held with Clydesdale, particularly given 
she was informed these would be sent to her after a complaint was made to them. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider whether Clydesdale acted fairly offering the level of 
compensation it did, for the failure to produce the statements Ms H says, she was promised 
would be sent to her. 
The first thing to say is Clydesdale are now unable to produce the half yearly ISA statement 
for June 2020 that Ms H wanted, and I am unable to tell Clydesdale to produce this, when 
they are unable to. I have considered if the compensation payment offered by Clydesdale for 
not sending further statements and the interest breakdown to a previous savings account, 
she held with them, is reasonable here - and I feel it is. I say this because while I appreciate 
Ms H has also raised some other issues around service, in particular the time it took her to 
contact them, I havent seen anything to say that Clydesdale acted unfairly - especially when 
considering the context of what was happening at the time around the pandemic and the 
impact this had on customers and businesses alike.
Thats not to say Clydesdale havent made mistakes by suggesting the statements would be 
sent to Ms H and then not sending these to her as promised. Its difficult to establish if Ms 
Hs redirection of her mail, may have contributed to whether some of these statements 
arrived or not, given these had been received in previous years. I do understand that other 
forms of communication from Clydesdale had been received, but I cant say with any 
certainty that the statements werent misdirected in some way or returned in error by the 
postal system.
I also take the view that Clydesdales final response letter to Ms H doesnt promise to 
produce the half yearly ISA statement to June 2020, but to provide a statement. I say this 
because in their letter dated December 2020 it says:
 I have arranged for you to have a statement sent out for the current Cash ISA you have 
and also for a breakdown of the interest that was applied to your previous ISA's that you 
held with us.
I can understand that Ms H may have thought this meant the half yearly statement, given 
that was the statement she had asked for. That said, the statements she has since received 
provides her with all of the information covering this period and while not the actual 
statement she wanted, I am satisfied it serves the same purpose. 
I can see Clydesdale did offer at the time of the complaint, for Ms H to take up internet or 
mobile banking which could have helped gain this information more easily. This offer was 
declined, and it is of course Ms Hs right to choose how she conducts her banking affairs.
Clydesdale have apologised for not providing the statements Ms H required and for the fact 
she had issues getting in touch with them and offered £50 for the inconvenience. While Ms H 
may not agree, its not my role to punish banks like Clydesdale when mistakes happen but to 
ensure these are corrected and I am satisfied this is the case here. And here, while I accept 
Clydesdale made mistakes, I am satisfied that its done enough to put things right. 
Clydesdale have accepted they should have sent the statements out after they promised to. 
While I can see there has been some misunderstanding as to what they actually agreed to 
send Ms H, I cant see any evidence to support her claim they have lied to her about this 
matter. 
It follows I am satisfied their offer of compensation, given there is no evidence of any  
financial loss to Ms H here, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I understand the offer of £50 is still available to Ms H if she wishes to contact Clydesdale 
about this.
It follows, while Ms H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Clydesdale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman