DRN-3983897
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost, after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
Mr I in bringing his complaint to our service is being represented. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer to both his and his representatives submissions as Mr Is own. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr I saw an advert for a job opportunity on a well-known social media platform in 
December 2021. Mr I was looking for a new job opportunity as he says he was aware his job 
at the time was temporary. 
I understand the employment opportunity involved promoting and liking posts and videos 
across various social media platforms. This is how Mr I understood hed make money. 
Mr I has told us that prior to proceeding hed spoken to a friend whod taken up a role around 
a month before, he searched the company online and found videos from others who were 
purportedly working with the company. After carrying out his research Mr I says he told his 
friend he was interested in the opportunity and they sent him a link to be able to put himself 
forward. He received a link to set up an account with the company and was given access to 
a group discussion/messaging app. 
Mr I made some initial payments from an account he holds with a different bank to unlock 
tasks. After completing the tasks as instructed by the company, I understand Mr I was able 
to withdraw the amounts of £10 in December 2021 and £389 in January 2022 into his 
account with the other bank. 
Mr I then proceeded to make seven payments from his account with Revolut totalling £9,450 
to five different payees between 4 January 2022 and 7 February 2022. 
For ease, Ive set out the payments Mr I made in the table below: 
Date Payee Amount
4 January 2022 Payee 1 £500
22 January 2022 Payee 2 £500
22 January 2022 Payee 2 £100
2 February 2022 Payee 3 £1,600
4 February 2022 Payee 4 £1,100
6 February 2022 Payee 5 £2,950
7 February 2022 Payee 4 £2,700
Mr I explains that he completed tasks daily and could see his credits in his account for the 
tasks he completed. In February 2022, Mr I attempted to withdraw his funds  around this 
time he messaged on the group discussion as says others also voiced their complaint about 
the withdrawal process. Mr I waited to receive his funds but he didnt receive any money. 
Mr I told us that at this time when he tried to log onto his account he was unable to get back 
in. It was then that he became concerned hed been the victim of a scam. 
Mr I contacted Revolut via its in-app chat on 14 February 2022 to report what had happened. 
Revolut informed Mr I that it wouldnt be reimbursing him the money hed lost. It considered it 
wasnt liable for Mr Is losses as it provided him with warnings when he made the payments.   
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr I brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious in 
appearance to Revolut that meant it shouldve intervened before allowing the payments to 
be made. While she recognised that Mr I didnt often make larger payments from his Revolut 
account, she didnt think the payments made to the scammer were so remarkable in value 
that shed have expected Revolut to be concerned. She also thought about the payments 
being made to five new payees but given that the payments were made on different days, 
over the period of a month, she didnt think this ought to have put Revolut on notice that he 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud. She also thought that had Revolut contacted the 
receiving banks as soon as it became aware of the scam, that this wouldnt have made a 
difference in this case. Our Investigator reached out to the two receiving banks Mr I sent his 
money to. The bank where the majority of Mr Is funds had been sent to provided information 
that showed the funds had left the receiving accounts prior to him reporting the matter to 
Revolut. While no response was received from the other receiving bank, she thought it was 
unlikely that any funds wouldve remained given what shed seen. 
As Mr I didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr I was the victim of a scam and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money he lost. 
The key questions to consider here are whether Revolut should have recognised Mr Is 
payments as being suspicious and intervened - and whether it did enough once aware of the 
fraud to recover his funds. Having considered whether Revolut could, or should, have done more to stop Mr I making 
the payments he did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Revolut to take responsibility 
for the money Mr I has lost. I understand this will be a very disappointing outcome for Mr I, 
so Ill explain why.
I accept Mr I has been the victim of a cruel scam  and its clear that this has impacted him 
both financially and emotionally. But that alone doesnt mean Mr I must be reimbursed by 
Revolut. That all depends on whether Revolut did anything wrong  that is, could it have 
done any more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that Mr I would have 
realised what was happening and stopped before sending the money.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Although the 
money was not intended to go to a fraudster, Mr I is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
But taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment. 
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. When thinking about the payments Mr I made, I dont consider these to be so 
out of character to previous account activity, nor do I find the value of the payments to be so 
remarkable that they ought to fairly and reasonably have caused Revolut concern. With this 
in mind, Im not persuaded Revolut needed to provide a warning when Mr I made these 
payments. But in any case, Revolut did provide a written warning on some of the payments. 
And, while I think those warnings could have been better, I dont think a more tailored 
warning would have stopped Mr I from going ahead.
Revolut has provided information that shows online written warnings were provided for the 
payments of £1,600, £1,100 and £2,950. Ive thought about the warning Revolut says Mr I 
was given. The warning wasnt great, - in that it didnt identify any particular risk, but even if it 
had been, (1) it doesnt appear Mr I remembers any warnings and (2) it would have been 
difficult for it to be tailored to the scam. This is because, the scam wasnt typical and it 
wouldve been difficult for a warning to have covered off the specific aspects of the scam 
Mr I fell victim to.  
With the above in mind, Im persuaded Revolut did enough in providing a warning to Mr I 
when he made the payments identified above. I think that was a proportionate intervention, 
given the individual circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded Revolut needed to do 
anything more. Finally, Ive also gone on to consider whether Revolut took reasonable steps to recover 
Mr Is funds once it was aware of what had happened. From what Ive seen, I think Revolut 
ought to have acted more quickly when attempting to recover Mr Is funds. This said, even if 
I consider Revolut couldve done more here, I dont find this made a difference in this case. 
Mr I sent his money to five different beneficiary accounts. Our Investigator reached out the 
two receiving banks (where the money was sent to), but she only received a response from 
one of the banks. From the information Ive seen from the bank Mr I sent the majority of his 
money to, I note the money had already been removed by the fraudsters prior to Mr I 
reporting the matter to Revolut. 
While, the other receiving bank didnt respond to our Investigator, it is quite typical with these 
types of scams for the fraudster to move the money out of the account quickly after the 
payments are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at recovery. On balance, given the 
information Ive seen that shows the fraudsters promptly moved Mr Is funds from the other 
accounts the payments were sent to, on balance, I dont think there was anything more 
Revolut couldve done in this case to recover Mr Is funds. 
Its very unfortunate Mr I has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done 
more to prevent Mr I from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman