DRN-1825445
 
The complaint
Mr B says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened 
Cashfloat gave Mr B five loans between June 2017 and July 2019 with long gaps after 
paying loan 1 and taking loan 2 and between loans 2 and 3. 
All the loans were due to be paid back by way of two or three monthly instalments. 
All the loans were repaid early.
Heres a table showing the loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 17/06/2017 24/07/2017 2 £200.00 £142.76
      
2 15/06/2018 25/07/2018 2 £200.00 £144.49
      
3 11/04/2019 27/05/2019 3 £400.00 £215.01
4 14/06/2019 24/06/2019 2 £200.00 £144.95
5 11/07/2019 30/07/2019 2 £250.00 £185.44
 
Mr B complained that Cashfloat gave him loans he couldnt afford. Mr B told us that he took 
on more debt in order to be able to make the loan repayments. 
When Cashfloat looked at Mr Bs complaint, it said that it had carried out full affordability 
checks on all the loans. It said its underwriting team had gone above and beyond what was 
expected to ensure the lending was affordable and it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Bs complaint. She felt she hadnt seen enough to say that 
it was unfair for Cashfloat to have provided loans 1 and 2. But our adjudicator thought that 
Cashfloat shouldnt have provided loans 3 - 5 to Mr B and she set out what she felt Cashfloat 
should do to settle the complaint.  
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Cashfloat told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked him for details of his 
income and normal expenditure, and carried out checks on his credit file. It also sent us 
information confirming that Cashfloats underwriters spoke to Mr B before agreeing loan 3 
and the information he gave about three outstanding short-term loans with other lenders was 
taken into account when working out whether he could afford to borrow loan 3 from 
Cashfloat. 
Looking at loans 1 and 2, like the adjudicator, I think there were long enough gaps in lending 
between these loans and before Mr B took out loan 3 for Cashfloat reasonably to think that 
Mr B mightve put his finances in order as it would seem that he hadnt been dependent on 
high cost short term loans during these non-borrowing periods. This meant that when his 
borrowing started again, and Mr B applied for loan 3 in April 2019 around nine months after 
hed paid loan 2, he was effectively starting over. 
So I think it was fair for Cashfloat to treat loan 3 as the start of a new chain of borrowing 
and assess his lending requests accordingly. And as it appears that Mr B hasnt objected to 
what our adjudicator said about not upholding loans 1 and 2, then I dont think that I need to 
say more about these loans. 
The repayment amount for loan 3 mightve looked affordable on the figures Mr B gave 
Cashfloat. But what Mr B had told Cashfloat about his financial circumstances was clearly at 
odds with the the information Cashfloat obtained about Mr Bs credit history. I think its fair to 
say that Cashfloat could see that Mr B had been relying significantly on short term loans, 
including payday loans, for some time. And it had information about at least three other short 
term high cost loans that Mr B was already paying. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide a short term fix in the event of temporary 
money problems. So I think the information Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Bs credit 
history shouldve made Cashfloat realise that it looked like Mr B was having problems 
managing his money. And Cashfloat shouldve realised when he asked for loan 3 that this 
loan, and any further lending, was most likely unsustainable. So Cashfloat shouldnt have 
provided loan 3 to Mr B  or any of the loans that followed. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Cashfloat has said, 
including its response to our adjudicators view. But just because the loans looked to be 
within Mr Bs means doesnt mean they were sustainably affordable. Cashfloat had become 
aware that Mr B had at least three other outstanding short term high cost loans when it gave 
him loan 3  a clear sign that he was having problems managing his money. 
I appreciate that Mr B repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term. But successfully 
repaying his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way. Borrowing and 
repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that his finances were not in a stable 
position. 
And Ive also taken into account what Cashfloat said about loan applications from Mr B that 
were rejected  but this doesnt mean that loan 3, or the loans that followed, were affordable 
for him. So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 3 - 5. 
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 - 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Cashfloat has recorded on Mr Bs credit file for 
loans 3 - 5.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Bs complaint and Western Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman