DRN-3782910
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society misled her about the interest she would 
receive on her savings account.
What happened
Mrs M opened an on-line FlexDirect savings account with Nationwide in February 2022 and 
feels shes been misled on how much interest would be paid and how it would be calculated. 
Mrs M says that at the time she opened the account, important exclusions were not stated 
on Nationwides website. Also, it wasnt clear that the interest would be calculated on the 
final day of the month.
Mrs M complained to Nationwide and asked them to pay the shortfall of interest shed 
expected, together with compensation. However, Nationwide couldnt see theyd made any 
errors. They said these details were in the account terms and conditions which Mrs M was 
asked to read and agree as part of the account opening process.
As Mrs M feels shes been treated unfairly, she closed her account and complained to our 
service. Mrs M also complained that Nationwide failed to provide her with referral rights to 
our service. However, our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaints as she thought 
Nationwide had provided clear and accurate information when Mrs M opened the account.
As Mrs M remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator.
I first viewed Nationwides terms and condition which were in place, and agreed to, when 
Mrs M opened the Nationwide Flexdirect account. They included the following information:
 2% AER (1.98% gross p.a.) fixed will apply for the first 12 months on balances up to 
£1,500
 To receive these rates you must pay in to your FlexDirect account at least £1,000 a 
month
 Money paid in from other Nationwide accounts held by you or anyone else or Visa 
credits (for example, refunds you receive back into your account) wont count towards the 
£1,000
 Interest is calculated on the last day of each month and is paid on the first day of the 
next month. We pay interest without tax deducted
Although Mrs M feels that, at the time she opened her account, Nationwides didnt show that 
interest would be calculated on the final day of the month, I could see that this was detailed 
in the terms and conditions that Mrs M agreed to.
I also looked closely at all submissions including a webchat conversation between Mrs M 
and Nationwide, however I found the information given to be consistent with the above terms 
and conditions.
Finally, I could see that referral rights to our service were included within the margin of 
Nationwides response letter.
So, considering the above, as the criteria to gain the full amount of interest wasnt 
straightforward, I can understand Mrs Ms frustration here. However, based on the evidence 
on file, I cant see that Nationwide have misled Mrs M here and Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman