DRN-1706952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutual Direct (NFU) didn't cover their claim for a broken lock.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs J's home emergency policy only provides cover for a call out and repairs 
to broken locks if the property isn't deemed to be secure.
 
I appreciate the key was stuck in the lock, but I've not seen any evidence to show 
this meant the door could be opened. During Mr J's call with NFU, he told the adviser 
the key wouldn't turn all the way and the door remained locked. This suggests that 
while the key remained in the door, the locking mechanism wasn't able to be 
unlocked, and in turn the door remained secure.
 
When the repairs were carried out, the entire lock, with the key still inside it, was 
removed from Mr and Mrs J's door and replaced with a functioning one. So, on the 
balance of probabilities, I consider it's most likely the door was secure overnight.
 
It would have been worrying having a key stuck in a front door overnight, however Mr 
and Mrs J's policy doesn't provide cover for this given the circumstances detailed 
above.
 
As I'm satisfied Mr and Mrs J's door was secure, I won't be asking NFU to contribute towards 
the repair costs under their home emergency policy. I also won't be asking NFU to do 
anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr and Mrs J's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman