DRN-3716383
The complaint
Mr C and Ms Y complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt refund 
them money they lost as a result of a fraud.
For ease, as Ms Y has been the main complainant in this matter, I will refer to both parties 
as Ms Y.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Ms Y contacted a tradesperson via a third-party website to repair a leak in her roof. She was 
quoted £900 for the work to be carried out and made a transfer from her Virgin Money 
account on 29 January 2022 to this value. 
After the work had been completed, Ms Y says the roof was inspected and it was realised 
that the repair had not been completed. So, she reported to her bank that shed been a 
victim of fraud.
Santander contacted the receiving bank which confirmed that £391.51 remained in the 
account. This was returned to Virgin Money and reimbursed to Ms Ys account. Virgin Money 
carried out an investigation and says it missed an opportunity to contact the receiving bank 
sooner. It reimbursed a further £95.50 as it says this was indicated by the receiving bank to 
have been held in the account at the time it ought to have reported the fraud. Virgin also paid 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by longer than normal call waiting times.
Ms Y remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint, so she referred it to our service 
for an independent review. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties 
but concluded that Virgin Money hadnt made an error. 
Broadly speaking, they felt that the payment wasnt out of character or unusual in 
comparison to the usual account activity: so intervention wasnt warranted. They also felt 
Virgin Money had taken the appropriate steps to recover the funds or return money where it 
could have done this sooner. Lastly, they felt that the £100 paid for delays on Virgin Moneys 
phone lines was fair and reasonable.
Ms Y disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties here that the payment was an authorised payment. Despite the 
funds not being intended to be paid to a fraudster, Ms Y has accepted that they were made 
by the account holders. And this means that Ms Y is liable for the payment in the first 
instance when considering the Payment Services Regulations 2017. But a banks obligations 
dont end there.
Banks, like Virgin Money, do have other obligations to prevent fraud and financial harm 
against its customers. One of these obligations is to be on the look out for out of character or 
unusual payments that indicate a customer might be at risk. 
Its accepted by both parties here that the transaction subject to this dispute wasnt 
particularly out of character or unusual when looking at Ms Ys normal account activity. And 
when considering that number of transactions a bank executes at any given time, and the 
fact that its generally considered normal for a customer to make the occasional higher value 
payment, I dont think its feasible to have expected Virgin Money to have picked up on a 
payment such as this. Nevertheless, even had it done so, its likely that no fraud concerns 
would have been raised as the tradesman was at the property ready to do the work.
So, overall, Im satisfied that no intervention was needed here, and that Virgin Money acted 
fairly in allowing the payment to go through without questioning it. However, Ms Ys main 
concern with Virgin Money is how it acted once she attempted to put it on notice shed been 
defrauded.
Ms Y says she was waiting for unacceptable periods of time to get through to Virgin Money 
as she attempted to report the matter. And this has been accepted by Virgin Money and it 
has apologised and compensated Ms Y £100 for the impact caused. I would like to start by 
saying that, while I acknowledge Ms Y is deeply upset by these errors, I find that £100 is a 
fair and reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience she was caused by the delays in her 
calls not being answered.
Ms Y has gone on to argue that had Virgin Money answered her calls sooner and not 
delayed her reporting, she would have gotten more of the money she lost returned. Having 
considered the evidence available, Im sorry to tell Ms Y that I dont agree. I appreciate her 
frustrations here, and that she has lost a substantial amount of money. But it wouldnt be fair 
of me to direct Virgin Money to return money where it has acted fairly.
Ms Y says that she contacted Virgin Money the same day the work had allegedly been 
completed by phone and webchat, however, both Ms Y and Santander have no record of 
this. Even had these been produced by either party, I find it unlikely this would have made a 
difference here.
Ms Y has told our service that she discovered the work hadnt been completed to her 
satisfaction when the tradesman presented a photograph of the fixed roof. Ms Y could still 
see broken elements to the roof and expressed her dissatisfaction. She was told by the 
tradesman that theyd return the following day to fix the parts of the roof that were still 
broken. Had Ms Y disclosed this information to the bank on the same day, I find it unlikely 
that Virgin Money would have identified a fraud and immediately recalled the payment from 
the beneficiary bank.
Ms Y had found the tradesman through a reputable third-party company, the tradesman had 
attended the property and allegedly carried out some labour. They also agreed to return the 
following day and rectify the area of roof that Ms Y was dissatisfied with. These arent the 
typical characteristics of a person intent on committing fraud.
However, the following day when the tradesman failed to show for the follow-up repair and 
blocked Ms Y from communication, I think this did indicate the tradesmans intent and likely 
would have caused Virgin Money to recall the payment.Virgin Money have already admitted responsibility for this and refunded the money it ought 
to have recalled from the beneficiary account before it was spent by the account holder. Any 
funds spent before that time, I dont consider Virgin Money liable for. It could only recall the 
funds on a goodwill basis and in the hope that money remained in the beneficiary account. 
Unfortunately, at the time Virgin Money ought to have recalled the funds, only £487.01 
remained in the account. The remainder had been spent by the account holder via various 
means.
Virgin Money has compensated Ms Y with the £487.01, so I dont think it should do anymore. 
I realise this is a disappointing outcome for Ms Y as we have discussed the case at length. 
But Im satisfied from considering all the evidence that Virgin Money has acted fairly here in 
recovering her funds and compensating her for the delays. Therefore, I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman