DRN-2266712
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made errors in the management of 
its account and allowed unauthorised payments following the death of its sole director
What happened
HSBC was notified in September 2018 that the sole director of K had passed away by his 
brother. That director was also the sole shareholder and signatory to the bank account. 
HSBC froze the company account. His brother later told it that there were credits due for K 
that its clients wanted to pay. And so, HSBC allowed the account to operate. But that also 
meant it allowed existing standing orders and direct debits to be paid too. When his brother 
discovered this, he complained and said that he had only wanted payments into the account 
and not payments out. But HSBC said it had not made a mistake and the account continued 
to operate through 2019 in this way until his brother was appointed a director in October 
2019 and could take control of the account. He raised a further complaint saying that HSBC 
had wrongly allowed what he described as random payments during this period.
HSBC said it had not made a mistake. It said that K was a separate legal entity and that the 
death of a director would not normally affect trading. It said that no changes to regular 
payments could be made until a new mandate was in place. And that payments could also 
be allowed into the account.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
- The main point of the complaint was that standing order and direct debit payments 
had continued to be made.
- K was a separate legal entity and the authority for these payments had been 
established before the director passed away.
- With this in mind it was an error for the account to be blocked in the first place. And 
HSBC didnt seem to have explained that when the block was removed those regular 
payments would be allowed again.
- The directors brother didnt have authority over the accounts until he became a 
director himself. The alternative to another director being appointed was for K to be 
wound down which HSBC explained to him in January 2019.
- It wouldnt have been a mistake for all regular payments to be made even though the 
late directors estate was going through probate. There were times when these were 
not paid as the account was restricted though which did add to the confusion. The 
payment that had varied by amount was for the commercial card account.
- We could only look at the impact on K, not the late directors brother personally. And 
also, we were looking at events up to the final response letter in November 2019  
not at other issues that K said had happened since then. 
K did not agree. The now director said that HSBC had mismanaged the account and made a 
number of fundamental errors following the passing of the sole shareholder and director. K 
was not in a financial position to take court action. It was now being wound up and it wanted 
to resolve this complaint for the liquidator. K in any event had had to go to court in a costly 
process before to appoint a director so it could understand the financial position of the 
business and its health. We should not only be looking at whether there was a financial loss 
but at the stress and emotional impact of what happened. The current director has spent a 
great number of hours on this issue. And he maintained that there was no logic to the 
payments that had been made. K wanted HSBC to be advised of how as a regulated 
business it failed in the application of its own processes and procedures. And it wanted 
financial compensation for K including for an employee who has yet to be paid and for the 
anguish and mental torment caused to the director to be recognised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand the difficulties faced by the late directors brother especially at a time of 
personal loss for him. And why he considers HSBC has acted both incorrectly and 
inconsistently. He clearly spent considerable personal time on this matter, and it seems that 
rather than simply wait for K to be wound up as he originally intended felt he needed to take 
on a role as director himself to try and resolve things. I understand K is now being wound up 
and I know that the liquidators have consented to this complaint being continued which will 
help resolve what funds are available for distribution.
Having said that I need to emphasise that K was solely reliant on the late director for its 
operation. No other party including the third party I understand to be the personal 
representative of the late directors estate could bind it. That third party as I understand it 
managed to become a shareholder by April 2019 through a court process. And then it took 
time for the new director to be appointed until October 2019. The reason I mention that 
process is that I think theres a potential argument that this process might have been brought 
forward had there been clarity about things from HSBC. But it did seem that in any event that 
would have taken some time and would not have altered the position materially.
It was clear that HSBC would as is the usual process freeze any personal sole account of 
the late director on his death. The position on the company account was not the same. I note 
that at the point of notification the account was in overdraft and it may have been unclear if K 
was going to be trading. But I think HSBC ought not to have frozen the account based on the 
arguments it later used about why it hadnt made a mistake in making payments and what it 
says about its own process.
HSBC was then approached by the late directors brother to ask it to allow credits to the 
account. Technically as I say he had no real standing then in discussing the business of K. 
HSBC has shown that it considered the legal position and decided that the account should 
be allowed to operate. Its only shown that it answered for him the specific question about 
credits being allowed for K. It did not make clear that regular payments would be made. It 
seems that when the late directors brother was able to see bank statements in December 
2018 he challenged this and then again for a time the account was restricted. But a review 
by HSBC following a complaint confirmed the previous position and the account then 
operated.
I know the current director still disagrees with this and the payments made including those 
made for a period to the now deceased directors account. The difficulty is that HSBC had by 
then been clear that it would not accept any alterations to the account without a proper 
mandate. So, what happened after that was driven by the lack of any authorised person 
appointed by K.
Given this I am not persuaded that it would have been a mistake for HSBC to make all the 
payments under the mandates every month. On the basis that K says it shouldnt have made 
any its difficult to find that where HSBC hadnt made a payment that would have a negative impact. I think that this as I say was fundamentally down to the lack of any authority possible 
from K.
HSBC could have said from the start that it couldnt deal with the directors brother about the 
administration of the account at all. I think that would have seemed especially unhelpful at a 
time of personal loss for him. I think it tried to help in a difficult situation. And so how it dealt 
with him in my view therefore fell into a bit of a grey area. And when hed pointed out there 
were credits due for K it then corrected the position on payments too. HSBC also dealt with a 
complaint in January 2019 from him about K, which now as director he has clearly adopted 
formally for K. 
Having considered the position in this case with care I find that I am in agreement with our 
investigator. Im afraid that although HSBCs communication and process could have been 
better I dont consider it adversely affected K itself. And to the extent that things werent 
resolved more quickly that seems largely down to K unfortunately finding itself not having 
any officers or account signatory. As I said at the start of my assessment I understand the 
personal impact for the now current director who was trying to deal with a difficult situation. 
But unfortunately, I cannot consider that as he was and remains separate from K, and then 
had no basis to bind it. So, on balance I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. I fully 
understand how disappointed the director will be by my findings on Ks complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman