DRN-3201753
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled an international transfer and then 
placed a block on her account. 
What happened
Miss S says she attempted to transfer £65,806.52 to her sister who was overseas. She 
attempted the transfer but received a telephone message from Barclays Bank asking her to 
call a number. Miss S says she didnt want to do this as it wasnt secure. Miss S says she 
then tried to access her bank account but found it had been blocked and her transfer hadnt 
been completed. Miss S then called Barclays Bank but they werent able to lift the block on 
her account. The following day, she called again and this time they were able to lift the block. 
Miss S was then able to make the transfer but her sister had lost US$1,164.77 due to 
changes in exchange rates. Then, the following day, the funds were returned to Miss S but it 
was reduced by £39.21. Miss S then had to phone again to query this but she says the calls 
wouldnt have been necessary had Barclays Bank originally not used an insecure method of 
communicating with her. Miss S says, had Barclays Bank emailed her to say there was a 
secure message waiting for her and provided a telephone number, then she couldve made 
a call to them knowing it was secure. Miss S complained to Barclays Bank about them using 
an insecure method to communicate with her. 
Barclays Bank responded and said they understand Miss S is unhappy with their payments 
process. Barclays Bank said their fraud team had contacted Miss S on the day she tried to 
transfer the funds for further information and confirmation for the international online transfer. 
They said the fraud team left a message for Miss S with a telephone number for Miss S to 
return the call or alternatively she could call the number on the back of her debit card. 
Barclays Bank said they understand Miss Ss concern around calling a number left in a 
telephone message so they always recommend customers to call the number on the back of 
their debit card or by using the direct call option on the mobile banking app. Barclays Bank 
said they had found no error in this process being followed and with Miss Ss payment being 
cancelled.   
Barclays Bank explained they understand the payment was then completed while Miss S 
was on a call with Barclays Bank. They explained the payment couldnt be resubmitted on 
her behalf as they would need to have Miss S on a call to confirm all details as the amount 
was over their processing limit for telephone banking. Barclays Bank said they wouldnt be 
refunding the difference in exchange rate but they credited her account with £39.21 as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss S. He thought Barclays Bank hadnt made any 
error and wouldnt be asking them to take any further steps. Miss S disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The information shows that Miss S tried to transfer funds to an overseas account. Barclays 
Bank have provided information which shows this payment was flagged and the fraud team 
were alerted to confirm the payment. I can see they tried to call Miss S but this payment was 
cancelled as they werent able to speak with her. A block was then placed on the account 
which Barclays Bank say was as a safeguarding measure. I can see the block was later 
removed and Miss S was able to complete the transfer. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays Bank to seek confirmation of payments and I cant 
see thats a point of dispute here. The dispute appears to relate to the method by which 
Barclays Bank attempted to contact Miss S to verify her payment. The terms and conditions 
of Miss Ss account say If we think theres a security threat or fraud on your account, well 
use SMS, telephone, post or another secure method to contact you. So, telephone is a 
method by which the terms and conditions allow Barclays Bank to contact their customers if 
they suspect any fraudulent activity. 
In addition to this, Barclays Banks website sets out their fraud monitoring service and says 
Were always checking for any suspicious activity on your account, so you may get a text 
message or call from our automated system to confirm a recent transactionSometimes, we 
may delay or decline transactions that we think are unusual, or even block your account until 
we confirm that youre making the transaction. Keep your contact details up to date so we 
can get in contact quickly to keep any inconvenience to a minimum. It goes further to say If 
you get a call, voicemail or a text from someone claiming to be from our fraud team and you 
think its suspicious, call us back using the number on the back of your card. Barclays Bank 
say their delayed payments process is to call a customer using the registered number held 
and if contact cant be made or if security isnt passed then the payment would be cancelled. 
Barclays Bank say, with this process, they arent able to send a secure message as they 
need to speak with the account holder to rule out any fraudulent activity and to ensure a 
customer isnt being forced into making the payment. 
I note Miss S feels Barclays Bank shouldve sent her an email letting her know there was a 
secure message waiting for her and provided a telephone number. I do understand why this 
wouldve given Miss S reassurance the communication is genuine, but our service doesnt 
have power to require a business to change their processes. Or to direct a business on the 
steps they should take to verify a transaction. Barclays Bank say their process is to call a 
customer and I can see theyve attempted that here. So, while I cant tell a business what 
their verification process should be, I can look to see whether the process they have in place 
has been applied fairly. And, in this case, I cant say theyve applied this process unfairly. 
I acknowledge Miss S says Barclays Bank tell customers not to respond to an unsolicited 
message by phone or email. So, I do understand why Miss S became concerned when she 
listened to a telephone message asking her to contact a number she didnt recognise. 
Banks will understandably provide information to their customers to help prevent them falling 
victim to fraud. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays Bank to tell their customers 
not to respond to unsolicited communication. But, I believe the intention here is to alert 
customers not to provide information like their full PIN or passwords to fraudsters or to send 
funds to individuals or accounts they dont recognise. In this case, Barclays Bank say the 
message which was left did invite Miss S to call the number on the back of her debit card but 
Miss S accepts she deleted the message as soon as the caller provided a number she didnt 
recognise. Therefore, without listening to the whole message, Miss S wasnt aware of the option to call the number on the back of her debit card. So, while I do understand why     
Miss S wouldve been reluctant to call a number she didnt recognise, the option was there to 
call a number on a debit card  and therefore one which would generally be regarded as a 
more trusted number. As mentioned above, this information is also on Barclays Banks 
website.  
I do understand this led to further inconvenience for Miss S in that her payment was 
cancelled, her account blocked and she had to spend many hours on the phone trying to sort 
this out. But, the terms and conditions do allow Barclays Bank to take such steps and, 
because they werent able to speak with Miss S, I dont think the safeguarding steps taken 
by Barclays Bank were unreasonable. 
In summary, while I do fully acknowledge Miss S feels very strongly that Barclays Banks 
process for verification wasnt appropriate, we dont have the power to direct them to change 
it. Barclays Bank have a process which I think has been applied fairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman