DRN-3064550
The complaint
Mr A complains Admiral Financial Services Limited shouldnt have offered him a personal 
loan as it wasnt affordable for him. Mr A is represented in this complaint by his wife, but to 
keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr A.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr A applied online for an Admiral personal loan of £5,000, and Admiral 
agreed to the loan. From November 2018 Mr A started to have difficulties making his 
monthly loan repayments, and Admiral says he sent it a debt management plan proposal.
In April 2021 Mr A complained to Admiral that it had mis-sold him the loan, as he didnt think 
it had carried out enough checks that it was affordable for him. But Admiral didnt uphold    
Mr As complaint. It said it carried out its standard checks, which showed Mr A had a good 
credit rating and history. It said Mr As unsecured debt was £7,356, and that Mr A had 
declared his salary was £40,000 and that the loan was for debt consolidation. So it was 
reasonable for Admiral to think the loan would settle most of Mr As other debt. Admiral said 
Mr A kept up his repayments for seven months before it received his debt management plan 
proposal.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He thought Admiral mis-sold 
the loan and hadnt properly checked his finances and personal situation. He said the 
information Admiral used to check his affordability just showed an income of £40,000 with 
very little expenditure, and Admiral didnt question this. Mr A wanted Admiral to put things 
right by refunding his interest and charges with interest on top, and by removing any 
negative information it had recorded on his credit file.
After looking into Mr As complaint, our investigator said Admiral carried out proportionate 
checks and had acted reasonably in agreeing the loan.
Mr A disagreed. He said not having a bad credit record didnt mean he could afford this loan. 
And that Admiral hadnt verified his income or questioned why the £350 of monthly expenses 
it had taken account of didnt add up to what might be expected for a homeowner. He asked 
where this information had come from and why Admiral hadnt questioned it. 
As Mr A disagreed with our investigator, his complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral says it sold this loan on a non-advised basis, and Ive not seen anything to
suggest Mr A received advice from Admiral. From my knowledge of the industry, its rare that 
a personal loan would be sold on an advised basis. And while Admiral may have offered the 
loan, it was ultimately up to Mr A to decide to apply for it and to decide if he wanted to accept 
the loan Admiral offered him. So I dont agree that Admiral needed to check the loan was 
suitable for him.
However, Mr A says Admiral shouldnt have offered him the loan as it was unaffordable. 
Broadly speaking, lenders are required to check whether lending is affordable for a 
consumer and carry out checks proportionate to the amount being borrowed. And having 
reviewed the evidence I have, I think Admiral did carry out proportionate checks here. 
From the loan applications, I can see that Admiral firstly considered Mr As income and 
expenditure at that time. Admirals system records show that in his online application, Mr A 
said he had an income of £40,000. I know Mr A thinks Admiral should have verified his 
salary. But as I say, Admiral only needed to carry out proportionate checks, not verify every 
piece of information Mr A gave it. And given than £5,000 is a relatively small amount 
compared to Mr As declared income of £40,000, Im satisfied it wasnt a requirement for 
Admiral to verify Mr As income.
I can see that in his online application, Mr A also told Admiral his monthly expenses 
(mortgage, debt repayment and other living expenses) totalled £2,152.97. Admiral has 
explained that it doesnt include all of those expenses in its affordability calculations. Its not 
my role to tell Admiral what its processes should be or what information it should include in 
its lending calculations. 
But in any case, I can see that even if Admiral had included all of the monthly expenses Mr A 
had told it about, the monthly repayment for this loan would still have been within the 
disposable income Mr A had left over each month. Admiral says Mr A told it this loan was for 
debt consolidation, and Ive not seen that Mr A disputes this. Given this, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to say it expected Mr A to use the loan to repay most of his debts 
with other lenders and that his existing monthly debt repayments would therefore reduce.
Admiral also considered Mr As credit record when deciding whether to approve this loan. 
Ive seen a copy of this and it doesnt show any arrears, defaults or other information to 
suggest Mr A had difficulty managing his finances at that time.
Ive also seen that Admiral passed the information it had through its system and that Mr As 
loan application passed Admirals lending checks. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied 
Admiral carried out proportionate checks here, and that it made a fair lending decision. 
It may be that Mr As circumstances changed after he took out this loan and he went on to 
have financial difficulties. But Im not persuaded that was because this loan was 
unaffordable.  So while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr A hoped for, Im satisfied Admiral 
hasnt treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman