DRN-2031348
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited have dealt with a third party claim against 
his policy. In particular he is concerned about its assessment of liability and the loss of his 
No Claim Discount (NCD) 
Mr Ns father has brought this complaint on his behalf. For ease I will refer to Mr N as Mr N 
Jnr and his father as Mr N Snr. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr N Jnr was involved in an incident with three cyclists. Mr N Jnr says he 
came to a stop at a junction and saw that the oncoming cyclist had stopped and so he pulled 
out and gave enough space so that the cyclist had space to continue in his direction of 
travel. Mr N Jnr says that when he was getting to his side of the road after turning onto the 
road there were two cyclists next to each other and one of them was shouting and hit Mr N 
Jnrs car with his hand. The cyclist then threw his bike on the floor in anger whilst shouting 
abusive words. Mr N Jnr drove away as he did not feel it was necessary to stop as there had 
been no collision and to avoid the situation escalating further. 
A few days after the incident Mr N Jnr received a call from the Police who told him that an 
accident had been reported to them and they required his side of the story. The police did 
not take the matter further once they had spoken to him. 
Aviva contacted Mr N Jnr to get the details of the incident as they had been made aware of 
the claim from the cyclist. The cyclist was claiming for damage to his bicycle following 
collision with Mr N Jnrs car. 
Mr N Jnr became aware that the claim had been paid out when he requested proof of his No 
Claim Discount. He had been expecting that he would have two years of NCD. Mr N Snr 
called Aviva on his sons behalf to query this and was told that during the course of its call 
with Mr N Jnr he had admitted liability for the incident and on that basis they had settled the 
cyclists claim. This meant that Mr N Jnr lost his NCD which has affected him financially. I 
understand that he had to sell his car and purchase a different vehicle that he is able to 
afford to insure. 
Mr N Snr complained to the insurance company on behalf of Mr N Jnr for the service that his 
son had received. Aviva did not uphold the complaint. It said that the policyholder confirmed 
he should have looked twice as he pulled out from a sideroad and it was satisfied that the 
correct process had been followed. 
Mr N Snr referred the complaint to this service. The investigator looked into things for Mr N 
Jnr and felt that Aviva had handled the claim fairly, had fully considered the circumstances of 
the claim, and was right to record the incident in the way that it did. The investigator did not 
uphold the complaint. Both Mr N Jnr and his Dad disagreed with the investigator and so this 
complaint as been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Aviva acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in their handling of the 
claim. It is not my role to assess liability for an accident; that is the role of the Courts. 
Under the terms of the policy Aviva have the discretion to take over, defend or settle claims 
as they feel appropriate. So it is entitled to decide how the claim should be recorded based 
on the evidence it has. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable 
way.
Assessment of liability 
The insurance policy explains that If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your 
namethe defence or settlement of any claim The policy also says we shall have full 
discretion in the conduct of anysettlement of any claim which is what has happened here. 
I have listened to the call provided by Aviva in which it discusses the claim with Mr N Jnr. 
During the course of that conversation he confirms that he pulled out of a side road onto the 
main road where the incident occurred. He says that he should have looked twice as he 
didnt see the cyclists until after he had pulled out. During the course of that call it was 
explained that due to the circumstances described by the policyholder Aviva would have to 
pay out on the claim and that this would affect the NCD. So I am satisfied that Aviva did 
explain things clearly to Mr N Jnr at the time and that he was made aware it would impact 
the cost of his premiums when it came time to renew his policy. 
Despite Mr N Jnr saying that he wasnt involved in an accident the third party had provided 
images of the damage to his bicycle together with a quote for the repair of the bike. On the 
basis of this Aviva had settled the third partys claim for repair costs. 
Aviva didnt contact the police. I find it likely that Aviva knew from experience that this could 
cause delay. Its likely that Aviva took the view that if the case went to Court evidence of Bs 
position on the road, and the fact that he says he pulled out of the junction without looking 
twice, would outweigh any evidence that may exist that he did not hit the cyclist. 
I am satisfied that Aviva conducted a reasonable and proportionate investigation. It 
considered the damage and what each party said. From what I have been provided I cant 
see that there were any independent witnesses. And so it decided to settle the other partys 
claim. 
Loss of NCD
According to the policy where a claim has been made we may reduce your no claim 
discount which is what happened here.
Aviva weighed up the evidence and the prospects of success in any court case involving Mr 
N Jnr and the third party. It decided to accept the third partys claim and record a fault claim 
against Mr N Jnr. It is usual for a motor insurer to record a fault claim against its policyholder 
unless it recovers its outlay in full from a third party. As a result Mr N Jnr lost his NCD. Mr N Jnr may strongly disagree with Avivas interpretation of the evidence and decision to 
settle the claim in favour of the third party but I dont think its failed to comply with its policy 
terms or exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to do so. 
I can see that Mr N Snr feels very strongly that his son was not involved in the accident and 
that he is young and doesnt necessarily appreciate motor insurance and the implications of 
the call he had with Aviva. I can empathise with his position. But I think Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably when they settled the case on the evidence that they had. As they havent done 
anything wrong, I cant ask them to do any more
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
So I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman