DRN-3552018
The complaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank discriminated against 
him because it wouldnt even allow him to apply for a loan because hed be 75 before his 
loan ended.
What happened
Mr B wanted to take out a loan. He tried applying online to Tesco Bank but says he wasnt 
even allowed to put in an application as hed be 75 before his loan ended  he tried to apply 
for the loan a month before he turned 75. He says he was more than able to make the 
monthly repayments and had assets which he could have used to secure the loan if needs 
be. He wanted a loan so he could help members of his family who, like many people, were 
going through an awful time.
Having failed to get a loan from Tesco Bank, Mr B says he was able to get a loan from 
another lender without any issues at all. But he wasnt happy with all the hassle and worry 
Tesco Bank caused him. He felt Tesco Banks policy amounted to age discrimination. So, he 
complained to Tesco Bank as he felt that this was wrong, strongly so.
Tesco Bank investigated Mr Bs complaint and said that it was unable to locate an 
application in his name and that in its FAQs it confirmed to apply for a Tesco Bank loan, you 
need to meet the following criteria  aged between 18 and 74. You must be aged under 75 
at the end of your loan term. Tesco Bank didnt, therefore, think it had done anything wrong 
by not proceeding with a loan. Mr B was still unhappy, so he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and asked Tesco Bank to provide 
evidence in confidence that it had carried out a risk assessment that would justify 
discriminating on the grounds of age in Mr Bs case. Tesco Bank told our investigator that it 
had taken the commercial decision not to lend to consumers who are over 74  due to what 
it says is the considerably higher risk involved in lending  and that it was unwilling to share 
details about any risk assessment on the grounds that its not required to justify its lending 
criteria. Tesco Bank also told our investigator that if we wouldnt expect it to share that 
assessment with Mr B then there was nothing it could do to stop Mr B complaining. So, it 
would be unfair to uphold the complaint as Tesco Bank couldnt have done anything to 
prevent it. Having taken everything into account, our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint 
and awarded him £150 in compensation. Tesco Bank didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendations and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. Tesco Bank said that it 
thought our investigators view was unfair as its explanation for the limits on its lending was a 
reasonable and valid one. Tesco Bank also said that we have no jurisdiction over its lending 
criteria, and that we can only look at individual complaints on their own merits. As Tesco 
Bank wanted a decision from an ombudsman, Ive looked into Mr Bs complaint.
I issued a Provisional Decision upholding Mr Bs complaint for reasons similar to those given 
by our investigator. I issued a Provisional Decision as I thought it was fair to give both parties 
and, in particular, Tesco Bank a chance to comment further. Tesco Bank said it had nothing 
new to offer in response to my Provisional Decision and would do as instructed. Mr B said 
that he hoped Tesco Bank would be more open to lending to people based on their 
circumstances and not their age in the future in response to my Provisional Decision and 
was otherwise happy to accept £150 in compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my Provisional Decision, this complaint isnt about whether or not Tesco 
Bank should have ultimately lent to Mr B. Banks can and do decide whether or not they want 
to lend to people who apply for borrowing, and they do so based on criteria that, amongst 
other things, look at whether or not the lending would be affordable and responsible. The 
complaint, as far as I see it, is that Tesco Bank didnt even get to that stage with Mr B  it 
didnt consider his individual circumstances at all. Thats because it wouldnt even consider 
an application from him as he was going to be 75 before his loan ended  he tried to apply a 
month before turning 75. I agree with Mr B that this appears to be a blanket policy and one 
on the face of it that discriminates against him because of his age.
As I also explained in my Provisional Decision, Mr B accepts that sometimes people are 
discriminated against because of their age  for example, no-one under the age of 18 can 
apply for credit. And Mr B accepts that theres nothing wrong with refusing someone who is 
under the age of 18 credit. Thats probably because the law says that its illegal to lend to 
someone who is under the age of 18. So, most people would probably agree that this isnt 
unfair.
In this case, again as I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, one thing I have to take into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable is relevant law. And in this case that 
means taking into account, amongst other things, the Equality Act 2010.
As I explained in my Provisional Decision, Section 29 of the Equality Act 2010 says a service 
provider must not discriminate against someone based on a protected characteristic  age is 
one of nine protected characteristics given  such discrimination is unlawful. There are, 
however, exceptions applicable to this particular case, and they are contained in schedule 3 
 part 5  paragraph 20A. This is what paragraph 20A says:
(1) A person (A) does not contravene section 29, so far as relating to age discrimination, by 
doing anything in connection with the provision of a financial service.
(2) Where A conducts an assessment of risk for the purposes of providing the financial 
service to another person (B), A may rely on sub-paragraph (1) only if the assessment of 
risk, so far as it involves a consideration of B's age, is carried out by reference to 
information which is relevant to the assessment of risk and from a source on which it is 
reasonable to rely.
(3) In this paragraph, financial service includes a service of a banking, credit, insurance, 
personal pension, investment or payment nature.
No-one is disputing that Tesco Bank has a policy that it wont lend to customers who are 75 
or over when they apply for a loan or before the loan ends. So, as I mentioned in my 
Provisional Decision, I agree with our investigator that in order to decide whether or not it 
was fair and reasonable of Tesco Bank to not even consider Mr Bs application that its 
important to know whether or not this policy is based on the type of risk assessment 
mentioned in (2) above. Tesco Bank has said it wont share that assessment with us despite 
us agreeing that this would be in confidence and despite the fact that we can require either 
party to a complaint to provide us with relevant information.Instead of sharing its risk assessment, Tesco Bank has given us a high level explanation of 
why it has this policy saying that the older people get, the less likely they will repay the 
balance in full and that due to considerably higher risk in lending to consumers of 74 and 
above, the decision is down to Tesco Bank whether to accept this risk or not.
As I said in my Provisional Decision, I agree with our investigator in this case that without 
more Tesco Bank appears to be making assumptions about someones ability to repay and 
the risk of lending simply based on that persons age. More importantly, Tesco Bank is doing 
so without showing that it had done a risk assessment based on information from a source 
on which it is reasonable to rely.
Our role  as I explained in my Provisional Decision  is to investigate complaints, and not 
take one partys word for it. I agree with Tesco Bank that we have no jurisdiction over its 
lending criteria, but we do have jurisdiction to look at individual complaints. And in this 
particular complaint, given what the Equality Act 2010 says and given that its clearly 
relevant law here, that means we can and should investigate whether or not Tesco Bank has 
based its approach on the type of risk assessment set out in paragraph 20A.
In my Provisional Decision, I said I agreed with our investigator, based on everything weve 
seen, that Tesco Bank didnt act fairly or reasonably when it refused to even consider Mr Bs 
application because he was about to turn 75. I also said that we cant make a finding that 
Tesco Bank has breached the Equality Act 2010  thats the role of the Courts. And that it 
doesnt follow that Tesco Bank has discriminated on the grounds of age just because the 
exception might not apply. Indeed, as I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, Tesco Bank 
might have a legitimate aim here, but it hasnt provided us with information to support its 
argument that its blanket approach of not allowing potential customers to apply for a loan 
because theyre 75 or over when they apply for a loan or before the loan ends is a 
proportionate means of achieving that aim. I remain of that view.
Putting things right
As I said in my Provisional Decision, Mr B has told us that he was able to get a loan from 
another lender without any issues at all. That makes sense if, as he says, he was more than 
able to make the monthly repayments and had assets which he could have used to secure 
the loan if needs be. But Tesco Bank caused him unnecessary hassle and worry, as well as 
doing something he feels strongly was wrong. More importantly, I can see that Mr B was 
trying to help his wider family  which was why he wanted to take out this loan  at what was 
a difficult time for them. So, as I said in my Provisional Decision, Im satisfied that this would 
have been very upsetting and hurtful for Mr B. He was, however, happy with the 
compensation our investigator recommended - £150. So, even though I might have awarded 
more, in this case I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome. He also said he hoped Tesco 
Bank would, in the future, be more open to lending to people based on their circumstances 
and not their age.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
it wouldnt even let Mr B apply for a loan simply because he was going to be 75 before the 
loan would end  he applied a month before turning 75. I require Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to pay Mr B £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman