DRN-3363575
The complaint
Mrs B through a professional representative complains that ReAssure Limited gave her 
unsuitable advice to take out a personal pension and contract-out of the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1989.
What happened
In 1989 Mrs B was advised by a representative of a firm ReAssure is now responsible for to 
take out a personal pension and contract out of SERPS. The contributions to the plan came 
only via redirected national insurance rebates, Mrs B wasnt making any personal 
contributions. The funds were invested in a with-profits fund.
At the time it was recorded that Mrs B was earning £9,500 a year and was aged 32. 
ReAssure had set an earnings requirement of at least £2,236 and customers needed to be 
under age 44 for it to consider contracting out a suitable recommendation.
It received rebates in 89/90, 90/91 and 05/06. And Mrs B contracted back in in 2007.
More recently through the representative Mrs B complained that the advice to 
contract-out was unsuitable. In summary, the complaint points raised were:
Mrs B shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of significantly lower retirement 
income in contracting-out.
Mrs B wasnt warned she could be substantially worse off, and about the risk 
involved in contracting-out.
Mrs B was exposed to a pension linked to the stock market in favour of valuable 
guarantees within SERPS  such as inflation protected benefits
A fair and balanced comparison of the alternatives wasnt carried out
The advice was in breach of the regulators rules at the time. And the common law 
duty to act with reasonable care and skill, to disclose material information regarding 
risks costs and available alternatives, in order to allow informed consent.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt agree the complaint should be upheld, he said 
that based on the assumptions used at the time he thought the recommendation was 
suitable. And that the with-profit fund was suitable for Mrs B.
In response Mrs Bs representative repeated that Mrs B hadnt been warned of the 
substantial risk of contracting-out. It said had the business done so, Mrs B wouldnt have 
contracted out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The applicable rules at the time
Mrs B was advised to contract-out of SERPS in 1989. ReAssure (specifically its 
predecessor) was a member of LAUTRO at the time so this advice was covered by 
LAUTROs rules.
LAUTRO set out a code of conduct for advisers to abide by when dealing with customers. 
The over- riding principle was that advisers were required to exercise due skill, care and 
diligence and deal fairly with investors.
The code of conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included:
L.6 (a) shall give the investor all information relevant to those dealings and that information 
shall in particular include the information referred to in paragraph 6A below;
shall use his best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any 
risks involved; 
shall not make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investment contracts or of any 
other method of saving or investment, or of any occupational pension scheme or the 
State earnings- related pension scheme 
L8. (1) A company representative shall, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that 
investor of any investment contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors financial 
position generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or the 
State earnings-related pension scheme, (if such rights are relevant in the particular case) 
and to all other relevant circumstances; and he shall use his best endeavours to ensure 
that he recommends only that contract or those contracts which are suited to that 
investor
There were also common law requirements: not to make negligent mis-statements; to 
disclose all material information and to advise with reasonable skill and care.
I've taken these into account. But as I consider the LAUTRO rules to have closely mirrored 
these requirements and to have imposed higher standards, Ive focused on the LAUTRO 
standards when looking at the advice given to Mrs B in 1989.
Context around SERPS
At the time of advice, the government had only recently decided to allow individuals via an 
appropriate personal pension to contract-out of SERPS.
The Government wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was 
provided and it wanted to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. To do 
so, a critical issue to decide was the level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too low 
then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment within the 
personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be paying 
more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking 
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). When contracting-out began, the 
GADs recommendations on the rebate levels were criticised as being too generous. 
Nevertheless, in addition to the rebate level suggested by GAD, the government added an 
additional 2% annual incentive payment, that would apply until 1993.
The rebate % level was set as standard for all. This however, meant it was less beneficial for older people, as they had less time before retirement to benefit from investment growth on 
their rebates. So for older people the comparative benefit given up in SERPS likely would 
outweigh that received by contracting-out.
The Government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for 
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial, this was for the market to 
consider. But it was clear to all, that age was the key factor.
So the actuaries at pension providers, carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from 
SERPS (based on the National Earnings index) against its alternative personal pension 
arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment returns) to 
decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were 
called pivotal ages. Some also used a lower earnings limit which was used to determine 
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out.
At the time the Bank of England base rate was fluctuating between 9 and 10%, so rates of 
return were high. And it was generally expected that the rates of return within a personal 
pension would likely outstrip the guaranteed benefits within SERPS for those below the 
pivotal age in that particular year. And the Government deliberately set rebates at a level 
that would encourage people to contract-out.
LAUTRO had received requests to specify the pivotal ages itself but declined. And put the 
emphasis back on product providers to establish their own pivotal ages based on their own 
product terms and charges.
Within its bulletins LAUTRO said it believed firms should provide their representatives with 
clear indications based on appropriate actuarial assumptions of what the pivotal ages were 
for men and women when giving advice. But it reminded its members of the principle of best 
advice and in particular point 8.1 of its code of conduct, to take into account an individuals 
circumstances. This was in relation to some of its members commercial advertisements not 
giving any indication to whom contracting-out may not be suitable for.
What ReAssure did at the time
ReAssure set a lower earnings limit of £2,236. Mrs Bs salary at the time was way in excess 
of this and was above the minimum salaries of all the firms we have data for from that time. 
And so she wouldve been earning enough to receive rebates. 
ReAssure set their pivotal age for women in 1989 as 44. Ive checked the criteria drawn up 
at the time by 34 other professional actuarial teams from other pension providers that we 
have data for (the criteria was not the same across these providers). And many of the 
pivotal ages for women at the time were higher than this.
Furthermore, in response to a Parliamentary question following the decision to allow 
individuals to contract-out of SERPS, the GAD produced calculations for men and 
women contracting out in 1988 to illustrate what it felt the pivotal age was. And 
ReAssures criteria was in line with what the Governmental Actuarys Department felt 
was reasonable.
So I think ReAssures criteria was fair and reasonable at the time and met the standards 
required of it. And Mrs B met that criteria.
The specifics of Mrs Bs sale
Mrs Bs representative hasnt provided evidence or arguments specific to Mrs Bs case to support his assertions about contracting-out being unsuitable for her. It seems the 
representatives arguments essentially boil down to contracting-out of SERPS was 
unsuitable across the board. I dont agree with that.
Mrs Bs representative also says that the result of this advice is losses that stretch into the 
thousands. No evidence of this has been provided nor an approximate figure. So I dont 
know whether a loss has actually occurred. But a loss occurring doesnt mean the advice 
was unsuitable.
Mrs Bs representative says that Mrs B wasnt fully informed of all the relevant facts at the 
time, so that she could make an informed decision. But this sale took place a long time ago 
and so the information from the time is fairly limited as youd expect from an event 30+ years 
in the past. That theres not a full record now to show all the specific requirements were met 
is neither sinister nor surprising.
The only evidence I have from the time is the illustration of benefits which states on it that it 
has been prepared in-line with the basis set down by LAUTRO. The illustration says it must 
be read alongside the accompanying brochure but unfortunately that is no longer available. I 
can see that the rates used are the LAUTRO defined growth rates. And the illustration 
makes clear the figures are illustrative and so not guaranteed.
ReAssure say Mrs B wouldve been given documentation at the point of sale that explained 
her policy was unit linked and not guaranteed. And that the amount paid at retirement was 
linked to performance of the fund to which the plan was linked. And the aforementioned 
illustration referred to above which it did have a copy of  which was prepared in line with 
LAUTRO requirements. ReAssure has sent us a copy of a policy booklet but it appears to be 
from much later so I have not taken this information into account.
From the very limited information we do have, the information Ive seen met the standards of 
the time and the rules set out by LAUTRO. Because of this, I think ReAssure most likely 
complied with the LAUTRO standards in the information it presented to Mrs B.
There is no record of what level of risk Mrs B was prepared to take from the time. There 
werent the same specific requirements as there are today to complete a documented risk 
analysis.
Mrs B representatives say now that she was a low risk investor but the advice was given 30 
years ago and Mrs Bs circumstances wouldnt be the same as they are now. Whilst theres 
not enough information from the time to say whether Mrs B wouldve had a cautious, 
balanced or high-risk appetite, theres nothing to suggest that Mrs B was completely risk 
adverse either. And at the time of advice Mrs B was some 30 years away from retirement, so 
she could afford to take some risk given the time she had until retirement. And I dont think 
the risk involved here was high, given the circumstances already explained.
Furthermore, whilst the benefits within SERPS had certain guarantees (as long as the 
government supported the arrangement that is), the amount of pension received and the 
performance mechanisms within SERPS were subject to change. With Mrs B being 30 years 
from retirement, a lot could (and would) change within SERPS in that time. When Mrs B 
contracted-out of SERPS, growth was linked to the national average earnings index. So 
performance wasnt guaranteed then either.
The opposing option, to contract-out, was at a time when rebates were set advantageously 
(for someone of Mrs Bs circumstances) and likely rates of return above SERPS. Meaning in 
the forthcoming year(s) contracting-out had a good chance of outperforming the benefits that 
would otherwise have been built up within SERPS. Whilst there were many variables that could affect personal pension outcomes, Mrs B was many years from retirement. And so she 
could afford to take some risk for potential higher returns. And contracting-out wasnt a 
permanent decision, Mrs B couldve contracted back in the future and she did do so in 2007. 
So I dont agree with Mrs Bs representative that this was only suitable for someone with a 
high-attitude to risk. 
Based on the limited information we do have, I think the recommendation to contract-out 
looks broadly suitable for someone of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.
In saying the advice looked suitable for Mrs B Ive taken into account:
that the risk involved at the time was low. Mrs B contracted-out of SERPS in 
1989 which historically was the most favourable time, rebates were at their 
highest and had a 2% incentive added. And market returns were strong.
Mrs B met the actuarial criteria drawn up by ReAssure (which as Ive explained 
above was reflective of what was widely considered reasonable at the time) for 
someone in 1989 that would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS.
I think its unlikely someone of Mrs Bs age and circumstances, would have 
thought that the risk involved here was intolerable. It was fair to assume she 
would likely be better off contracting-out in that year. And contracting-out wasnt 
a lifelong decision shed be held too. She would always have the option to 
contract-back in, if conditions changed. 
In conclusion, I think ReAssure used fair controls based on the financial environment at the 
time and the rules set out by LAUTRO, to establish whether it was likely Mrs B would be 
better off contracting-out. Its pivotal age was in-line with the standards of the time. And it 
applied these in accordance to Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. Mrs B met the criteria of 
someone who would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS. And given all the correct 
information, I think she wouldve accepted the recommendation. So, I cannot now fairly say 
that the advice Mrs B was given to contract-out was unsuitable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman