DRN-3228724
The complaint
Mr C complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) has failed to reimburse him for a loss he 
incurred involving a bank transfer between his internal Citibank accounts. 
What happened
On 18 October 2019, Mr C made a transfer (using the Citibank mobile banking app) of 
£225,000 from his pounds sterling (GBP) account with the intention of it going to another 
GBP account. However, the funds were sent to Mr Cs US Dollar Saver (USD) account 
instead.
Mr C contacted Citibank on the same day and explained the transfer had been made in 
error. He asked Citibank whether it could help him and perhaps reverse the transfer so that 
the funds recredited his GBP account.
On 21 October 2019, a transfer was then made from Mr Cs USD account to his GBP 
account  the original intended recipient. However, the GBP account was only credited with 
an amount of just over £221,000. This was less than the amount Mr C had previously 
transferred.
Mr C complained about this and Citibank responded, saying itd acted in line with Mr Cs 
instruction to initially transfer the money to his USD account. And whilst it acknowledged Mr 
C had now incurred a loss after the funds were moved on to the GBP account, this wasnt 
down to any errors made by Citibank. It repeated this in an updated final response in 
November 2021 after Mr C had decided to bring his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and initially addressed any issues that took place 
up to when the original transfer occurred. 
He thought Citibank wouldve made Mr C aware that he was going to be making a transfer to 
his USD account. So, he was also satisfied Citibank had acted fairly on this occasion. He 
explained hed reviewed a demo of the mobile banking platform which clearly showed things 
like the accounts where funds were going to and from. He noted there was also a summary 
screen which gives the consumer a second chance to review a payment before its made.
He also referred to a particular section of Citibanks terms and conditions which helped 
persuade him that Mr C wouldve seen relevant information about what account and any 
rates he was paying. Citibank didnt directly respond to our investigators view. But Mr C 
disagreed.
In his response, Mr C explained that the demo our investigator wouldve looked at clearly 
wasnt the same as the software hed used when making the payment. So he feels this point 
is irrelevant. He also commented on a phone call hed had with Citibank when reporting what 
happened. In this call he says he was told that he wasnt the first client whod experienced 
this issue and that it had happened all the time. 
He was also unhappy that our investigator hadnt properly considered what had happened 
after hed reported the issue with Citibank on the same day. He repeated his stance on how 
unhappy he was to have been made to wait for three days before Citibank were able to try 
and help him. He also said hed been given incorrect advice during that initial call and that 
his Relationship Manager had also provided poor advice. 
Our investigator then responded to Mr C again. He was still satisfied Citibank had acted 
reasonably and so didnt think it needed to take any further action. 
Mr C continued to disagree with our investigators findings and requested an ombudsman 
reviews his case. As a result, it has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive read all of the detailed submissions provided by Mr C. Id like to assure 
him that Ive considered everything hes provided, but I wont be responding in a similar level 
of detail here. Instead, in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution 
service, Ive focused on the key aspects of the complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
There are two main issues that I think form Mr Cs complaint  the original transfer itself and 
then what happened after he contacted Citibank on 18 October 2019. 
The original transfer
As Mr C will already be aware, Citibank has told our service that it cant provide screenshots 
of the exact payment journey wouldve seen on the mobile banking app at the time the 
original transfer took place. I can understand that this will be frustrating to Mr C, as for him  
this means that Citibank cant prove what its said. 
But, my role is to impartially weigh up the information made available to me and decide what 
I think is fair and reasonable. When deciding this, my role isnt to find whether either party 
has proved something beyond doubt. Instead, Ive considered the evidence that is available 
and, where information may not be available or is contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Thats relevant here because Mr C and Citibank are saying two different things about what 
its systems would have shown when he made the original transfer. Mr C says it wasnt clear 
about what he was doing, Citibank says it was. But neither side has been able to provide any 
evidence of exactly what Mr C would have seen at the time. So I have to rely on what I do 
have and decide whats more likely than not to have happened.
Citibank says that its mobile and online platforms display the details of the accounts a 
customer is transferring to and from, along with the relevant currency of the account. 
Citibank has been able to provide evidence of what this process looks like now. Its also told 
us that the fundamental elements featured in this example wouldve also been present in the 
version of the app used for the transfer. Thats backed up by the terms and conditions of the 
accounts in place at the time of the transaction, which say Citibank will ensure certain details 
(such as exchange rates) are displayed on its mobile banking app.
Ive looked at the evidence that Citibank has provided of the payment journey as it stands 
now, which includes a variety of important details. These include a breakdown of a customers accounts  including the currency that each account is in. In addition to this, 
when sending money, the example clearly shows an exchange rate between the two 
accounts (if the accounts have different currencies). After the payment has been submitted, 
a further confirmation/summary page is shown  again including which account the payment 
has been made to alongside what the relevant exchange rate is. 
So while its not clear proof of exactly what Mr C wouldve seen at the time, when I take into 
account what the terms and conditions at the time also said, this persuades me that its more 
likely than not that Citibanks systems were set up in a way that would have highlighted the 
details of the relevant accounts and exchange in the way it says. So Im persuaded that its 
more likely than not Mr C wouldve been given reasonable information about what he was 
doing here.
To be clear, I fully understand Mr Cs point that the evidence of the payment journey Ive just 
referred to isnt the same as what he wouldve seen. I also accept its entirely possible that 
there wouldve been some features that werent present on the version of the app he used at 
the time. But Im satisfied that there wouldve been enough core information  such as the 
different accounts (with their respective unique identifiers such as account details) alongside 
mention of factors such as exchange rates which wouldve helped to identify that Mr C was 
making a payment to the USD account. I think thats more likely than there being a design 
problem which made it unclear for a customer in Mr Cs position, as he says.
Ive also listened to the call Mr C has with Citibank shortly after the transfer is made. In this 
call, Mr C refers to the transfer as a mistake. He then goes on to explain that he tried to 
reverse the transfer. However, he says the exchange rate was different and so he would 
lose around £4,000 if he did this. From his comments, its clear Mr C has been able to see 
an exchange rate when looking at reversing the transfer. So given what Ive already said, I 
see no reason why he wouldnt have also seen an exchange rate when he originally made 
the transfer. And if that was the case, I think he ought to have known that the transfer wasnt 
going to another GBP account.    
I also dont think its unreasonable to say that if Mr C had been unsure which account he was 
paying, he wouldve had the option to contact Citibank directly before approving the 
payment. However, this didnt happen which suggests to me he had enough information 
available to him to make an informed choice.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think its fair to hold Citibank liable for 
what happened with here. Mr C chose to make the payment and Im persuaded that there 
was more likely than not enough information available to him to be informed of what he was 
doing. As a result, I think what is most likely to have happened is that Mr C has selected the 
USD account in error. I realise that will be a difficult message for Mr C to accept, but its what 
the available information and evidence leads me to conclude. 
Mr C reporting the issue
Mr C reported what happened shortly after the transfer was made and on the same day. Ive 
listened to the call and he tells Citibank what has happened and asks if anything can be 
done to help him. Mr C refers to this issue as a mistake and that hed considered 
transferring the money again to the correct account straight away. However, by doing so he 
would lose money and so wanted to see what Citibank could do to help. 
Mr C says he remembers the call handler telling him that other customers had also made the 
same mistake and that this shows there was a problem with the mobile app. But Im satisfied 
the call handler is only referring to the more general mistake of sending money to an 
incorrect account. This is because when this comment is made, Mr C hasnt mentioned any of the specifics of the difficulties he says he faced when making the transfer. So, I dont think 
it wouldve been likely for the call handler to have made the comments in the context that Mr 
C has described.
The call ends with the call handler setting up a complaint on Mr Cs behalf. She also advises 
Mr C to wait until the start of the next week before taking any further steps as that would be 
when the matter could be looked into in more detail. In thinking about whether that was 
reasonable, it seems to me that there were two options available at that point; either 
processing the transfer there and then, or waiting until later to do so. 
I dont think the call handler has necessarily provided any incorrect advice during the phone 
call. She clearly explains that Citibank would only be able to do any further transfers at the 
live rate available at the time of the transfer. She then proceeds to tell Mr C that he could 
keep an eye on the rates to see if they change in the meantime. So I think the call handler 
has simply provided information to allow Mr C to make an informed decision on what he 
wants to do next when sorting this issue out. 
So while I accept she did ultimately end up advising Mr C to wait until the start of the week, I 
think she said this on the basis that Citibank (and the Relationship Manager in particular) 
would be better placed to assist Mr C at this point. Beyond what shed already told Mr C 
about how Citibank would process any future transfers  Im not sure what else she couldve 
been expected to do in that moment. 
Regardless of whichever option Mr C took here it seems like he always stood to have to pay 
some fees given the costs associated with transferring the money back to the GBP account.
So I dont think either option couldve prevented Mr C unfortunately losing at least some 
money on this occasion. I say this because as Ive already mentioned, Im satisfied Citibank 
arent responsible for the problems with the original transfer. So I think it was also 
reasonable for Citibank to have applied the relevant exchange rate and any other associated 
fees for any subsequent foreign exchange transfers.
Ive then considered Mr Cs discussions with his Relationship Manager. I note Mr C feels 
particularly strongly about the actions of this person and that they failed to help him as 
promised. I note theres no record of what was discussed, and I understand the Relationship 
Manager no longer works for Citibank. This means I cant be completely certain what was 
said. But, I have no reason to doubt what Mr C has said happened  namely that the 
Relationship Manager suggested to make the transfer to the GBP account that day, so that 
the funds could finally credit the intended account. I also accept that he may have given the 
impression that the original transfer was made in error.
Mr C has said he was told that Citibank would essentially be able to reverse the transaction 
as if no mistake had been made in the first place. That advice wouldnt have been correct, as 
Mr C eventually found out. But it doesnt follow that this means that it would be fair to say 
that Citibank should now do something that it only said it would by mistake.
I say this because the information Ive seen shows that Mr C seemed to want to reverse this 
transfer in the way he eventually did. From the evidence here, he was just thinking about 
when would be best to do this. So I have to consider that he would always have been likely 
to have incurred fees and an exchange rate by doing so, be it transferring on one day or 
another. 
So Mr Cs expectations may have been raised by the Relationship Manager and he may 
have made the transfer when he did because of what was said. But I still dont think Citibank 
needs to pay back any fees and losses associated with the later transfer, where these were incurred to put right the original transfer and were likely to always have been incurred 
anyway.
All of this means that I wont be telling Citibank that it needs to do any more here.
My final decision
My final decision is, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman